Hisense U8N Series TV Review: Solid Picture Quality for the Price - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TVs
Hisense U8N Series TV Review: Solid Picture Quality for the Price
The Hisense U8N Series offers a fine balance between picture quality and price, although HDR performance is overly dark.
Article updated on November 9, 2024 at 4:00 AM PST
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Product Tests 14151617181920212223 Testers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Hours Tested
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.3/ 10
SCORE Hisense U8N Series
$921 at Amazon $700 at Best Buy
Pros
Excellent design and ease of use
Peppy picture with non-HDR material
Relatively affordable
Cons
Black levels are crushed in HDR
Picture not as dynamic as rivals'
Table of Contents
Hisense U8N Series TV Review: Solid Picture Quality for the Price
Hisense U8N series TV sizes
A dash of design
The year of Google TV
Mini-LED and high refresh rates
Hisense U8N vs. TCL QM8 vs. Roku Pro: Picture quality compared
Light output in lumens
Geek Box
Although we may think of CRT as being the oldest TV technology, it's actually liquid crystal displays. LCD was discovered a whole decade earlier than cathode rays in the 1880s. The display type is really quite old, especially compared with the youngster OLED, but LCD continues to improve with TVs like the Hisense U8N and the 2024 TCL QM8 by implementing the latest in lighting tech, including mini-LED backlight and quantum dot color. In my side-by-side comparisons, this Hisense offered excellent contrast and maintained that fine balance between picture quality and price. It runs on the Google TV interface and so it integrates well with Google's smart home system and Android phones. The rival TCL QM8 pulls ahead of the Hisense U8N in terms of picture quality -- mainly due to improved brightness from its more numerous backlight LEDs -- the Hisense is also more affordable. It's also worth noting that the TCL QM8 doesn't come in a 55-inch size.  If you're looking to spend around $1,000 on a 65-inch TV then the Hisense U8N is the best I've tested in terms of overall performance. If you're looking for a TV that can squeeze out an even better picture, it's worth paying more for the TCL QM8 or the LG C4 OLED.
Hisense U8N series TV sizes
I performed hands-on testing of the picture quality of the 65-inch Hisense 65U8N, but this review also applies to the other screen sizes in the series. All sizes have similar specifications and should exhibit similar picture quality.
Hisense 55U8N (55-inch)
Hisense 65U8N (65-inch)
Hisense 75U8N (75-inch)
Hisense 85U8N (85-inch)
A dash of design
The U8N features a pedestal stand. Ty Pendlebury/CNETThe biggest change to the Hisense's design, since last year's U8K, is that a centralized pedestal stand replaces the awkward clawfeet of before. A pedestal design makes it easier to place this TV on a smaller stand (and is arguably more stable if knocked).
The screen, which features "Anti-Glare Low Reflection technology" is surrounded by a thin black and silver frame. Unlike the LG C4 with its fancy carbon fiber back, the U8N is constructed of a more traditional mix of metal and plastic.
The Hisense remote is pleasing to the eye and easy to use. Ty Pendlebury/CNETI've seen a bunch of TV remotes in my time and the Hisense feels the way a premium clicker should (but usually doesn't). It's made of plastic but it boasts a high-end finish. That Hisense provides a remote like this on a relatively affordable television is even more impressive.
Read more
Hisense CanvasTV: The Artful Way to Control Your Smart HomeTCL QM8 (2024) Review: Mini-LED TV Gets Brighter, Richer PictureGoogle TV Streamer Review: High-End Streaming for Power UsersBest 4K TV for 2024 The year of Google TV
Ty Pendlebury/CNETPanasonic has opted for Fire TV in its premium offering, but if you're buying a new Hisense, TCL or Sony television it will boast Google TV onboard. Google TV is better than the manufacturers' proprietary interfaces we used to see even a few years ago, but I prefer the simplicity of an Apple TV (which is only available in a separate device). Hisense's Google TV interface is not only quite busy but it's largely immune to customization; the only home screen item you can really change is the order of the apps in the shortcut bar. The content recommendations, of which there are many, stay under the control of Google.
Correspondingly, my colleague Chris Wedel looked at integrating Hisense's similar Canvas model into a smart home so head over there if you're keen to know more. The upshot is that if you use Google Assistant or have a Nest smart speaker then a Hisense Google TV will integrate very well. For my own tests, I used apps including Netflix and Fandango At Home and found that while they weren't as zippy to load as a Google TV Streamer you don't really need an add-on device.
Although the Hisense does offer a simpler, apps-only mode, just as with the TCL and the Streamer, it is the most restrictive of all. The interface looks super simple with a main carousel image and rows of apps but search is weirdly disabled.
Mini-LED and high refresh rates
Ty Pendlebury/CNETThe U8N LCD television uses a mini-LED backlight, and it's the small size of these LEDs that enables the TV to have thousands of local dimming zones. At 2,000-plus zones, the U8N has double those of the earlier U8K; the QM8 dwarfs them both at 5,000 zones. Full-array local dimming allows the screen to dim and brighten different areas simultaneously and this ultimately increases contrast and therefore picture quality.
The Hisense U8N has a 120Hz refresh rate, which can lead to better motion performance than 60Hz TVs. Like most TVs in its class, U8N uses quantum dots to improve color performance. Like most manufacturers that aren't named Samsung, the Hisense supports both Dolby Vision and HDR10 high dynamic range formats.
The audio system features a five-speaker 2.1.2 configuration but most of these drivers face into the wall or downward. I didn't test the TV's sound quality specifically, but even a budget soundbar would likely sound better.
Like last year's TV, the Hisense U8N includes a built-in ATSC 3.0 tuner for NextGen TV broadcasts. Given the format's slow rollout and the prevalence of FAST TV, you may never use this feature.
Hisense U8N vs. TCL QM8 vs. Roku Pro: Picture quality compared For this review, I compared three 2024, 65-inch LCD TVs at various price points: the $1,100 Hisense U8N, the TCL QM851 at $1,300 and the $900 Roku Pro. I watched them side-by-side with a combination of both HD and 4K content, in a darkened theater environment and with the lights on.
TV and movies
When watching program material, I found the U8N fits in between the TCL QM851 and the cheaper Roku Pro which nicely correlates to each screen's current pricing. I discovered the Hisense offers superior black levels and contrast to the Roku, but isn't quite as dynamic as the TCL, although it did depend on whether I was watching HD or 4K HDR material. For example, the U8N exhibited similar shadow detail to the TCL when watching standard HD (non-HDR) material like the opening scene of the horror movie It. Young Georgie is seen fumbling around in the basement and, in a precursor to what's to come, sees what looks like a pair of eyes in the darkness. In HD both the TCL and Hisense render these highlights and the shadowy detail of the stairway in a similar fashion. As an experiment, I tried changing Hisense's Gamma 2.2, but it looked too washed out in this scene. The default 2.4 may seem dark but didn't adversely affect HD performance. It was only when switching the scene to HDR that the TCL pulled ahead and the Hisense tendency for crushing HDR blacks became evident.  As I noted in the TCL review, the Hisense can obscure low-level shadow detail, and this was illustrated in Oppenheimer's launch scenes. At 1.51.26 we see the launchpad set against a predawn sky, and on both the Roku and the TCL you can see light in the sky and a hint of mountains in the background. By "contrast" there was no visible sky on the Hisense, and a shining light in the top third of the screen was also obscured.  Whether it was HD or HDR, it was the TCL that drew my eye every time with bolder colors, better contrast and brighter highlights. The Hisense followed behind thanks to its better contrast than the Roku, but the less-expensive Pro TV managed to hold its own in terms of color.
Gaming
The jury is still out on whether Variable Refresh Rate is a useful thing to have on a TV or not. I say this because not everyone connects a high-end gaming PC to their TV, and not every new console game supports higher refresh rates. For example, you won't find 4K/120Hz support on the latest Call of Duty Black Ops 6 but you will find it on the platform game Ori and the Will of the Wisps. Nevertheless, the Hisense will still support both 120Hz and 144Hz and I confirmed the two relevant ports as 4K/120Hz-ready after connecting an Xbox. The TV automatically detected the Xbox and turned on auto low latency mode.  In terms of gaming, either the TCL or the Roku would be better due to their better shadow detail with HDR -- as you'll use when connecting a PS5 or Xbox. If you can't see an enemy hiding in a corner it can put you at a huge disadvantage.
Bright lighting It may not have as many dimming zones as the TCL and possibly uses fewer LEDs as a result, but the Hisense was nonetheless capable of eye-scorching brightness. This means that the TV was capable of meaningful levels of contrast in a lit room. I could still see myself reflected in the TV despite the TV's "Low Reflection" coating but during most scenes, it wasn't distracting. The Samsung S95D remains the high watermark for taming reflections in a bright room, but it's also a lot more expensive. Light output in lumens
TVBrightest mode (HDR)Accurate mode (HDR)Brightest mode (SDR)Accurate mode (SDR) TCL QM851 3,1833,1833084.001,262Hisense U8N 3,1753,1753,1681,112LG C4 1,213968414390Samsung S90D 1,2181,201505182LG G4 1,7991,420792792Samsung S95D 1,7341,666544265LG OLED65G3 1,3781,378725724Samsung QN65S95C 1,3481,326238648LG OLED65C3 861817501464
Settings and picture mode notes Of the three TVs I compared, the Hisense had the most accurate test results when measured with our Konica Minolta meter. I believe this is what contributed to the TV's excellent showing with HD material. The only less than "Good" readings were for black levels and Gamma. You can adjust the black levels for HD content by going to Picture > Brightness > Gamma > 2.2, but I found that this washed the picture out too much.
When it came to SDR material it was the Filmmaker with which the TV performed best and led to the readings above. Meanwhile, I couldn't find a completely suitable HDR mode -- none of them were able to make the predawn sky easier to see in Oppenheimer, for instance -- while Imax mode was best.  Geek Box
TestResultScore Black luminance (0%) 0.052AveragePeak white luminance (SDR) 3168GoodAvg. gamma (10-100%) 2.41PoorAvg. grayscale error (10-100%) 1.90GoodDark gray error (30%) 1.33GoodBright gray error (80%) 2.84GoodAvg. color checker error 2.02GoodAvg. saturation sweeps error 1.56GoodAvg. color error 2.22Good1080p/24 Cadence (IAL) PassGoodInput lag (Game mode) 13.97Good HDR10Black luminance (0%) 0.021GoodPeak white luminance (10% win) 3175GoodGamut % UHDA/P3 (CIE 1976) 97.06GoodColorMatch HDR error 2.29GoodAvg. color checker error 1.43GoodInput lag (Game mode, 4K HDR) 13.67Good
Check out how we test TVs for more details on the Geek box and our TV testing methodology. Portrait Displays Calman calibration software was used in this review.
CNET TV Coverage
TV Types
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best Gaming TV
Best TV Deals
Best 4k TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best OLED TV Deals
Best Apple TV Deals
TV Sizes
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best 55-Inch TV
Best 43-Inch TV
Best 32-Inch TV
Streaming & TV Accessories
CNET Streaming TV Insider
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
TV Information
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
HDMI vs Optical
TV Resolutions Explained
LCD vs OLED
How to Connect a VCR to Your New TV
TY PENDLEBURY
Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.