Best Fire TV Stick for 2025: Fire Stick 4K, Lite and More - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment Media Streamers
Best Fire TV Stick for 2025: Fire Stick 4K, Lite and More
Not all Fire TV Sticks are created equal. After testing numerous models, we’ve narrowed down the best. Check out our top picks to find the perfect Fire TV Stick for you.
Our Experts
Written by
Sarah Lord
Article updated on January 24, 2025 at 9:15 AM PST
Sarah Lord Writer Sarah Lord covers TVs and home entertainment. Prior to joining CNET, Sarah served as the tech and electronic reviews fellow at Insider, where she wrote about everything from smart watches and wearables to tablets and e-readers. She began her career by writing laptop reviews as an intern and subsequent freelancer at Tom's Hardware. She is also a professional actor with many credits in theater, film and television. Expertise TVs | Home Entertainment | Streaming | Computers Credentials Member of Screen Actors Guild and Actors Equity Association
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to Consider
Budget
Before anything else, you'll want to consider how much you're willing to spend on a Fire TV Stick. Higher-end models can cost up to $140, but there are plenty of simpler yet still very effective Fire TV Sticks which are priced as low as $20.
Use cases
Consider what exactly you'll be using your Fire TV Stick for and make sure it aligns with the capability of the model you choose.
4K and HDR
Models like the Fire TV Cube, Fire TV Stick 4K and the 4K Max support and HDR protocols, while the Fire TV Stick Lite and standard Fire TV Stick do not.
Alexa
While all five Fire TV Stick models have Alexa integrations, the Fire TV Cube has some advanced modalities that may better suit your needs.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Amazon has made a big splash in the streaming world with its Fire TV devices, ranging from the straightforward Fire TV Stick Lite to the feature-packed Fire TV Cube. We’ve tested these options (and everything in between) alongside offerings from Roku, Google and Apple. While Roku often wins us over with its easy-to-navigate, neutral platform, Amazon’s Fire TV Sticks shine for Alexa fans and those deep into the Amazon ecosystem. Choosing the right model might seem daunting, but we’ve got you covered. Whether you need something basic or a device that does it all, our guide to the best Fire TV Stick will help you pinpoint exactly what suits your streaming style and needs.  Our Picks
Best Fire TV Stick overall Fire TV Stick 4K Max
Jump to details
$104 at Amazon
Jump to details
Second-best Fire TV Stick Fire TV Stick 4K
Jump to details
$30 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget streamer Fire TV Stick Lite
Jump to details
$20 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for hands-free Alexa, smart home control Fire TV Cube
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best non-4K runner-up to the Lite Fire TV Stick
Jump to details
$25 at Amazon
Jump to details
STREAMING PLAYER DEALS OF THE WEEK
Fire TV Stick 4K Streaming Device With Remote (2023 Model):  $30 (save $20)
Fire TV Stick 4K Max Streaming Player With Remote (2023 Model):  $40 (save $20)
Roku Express 4K Plus Streaming Media Player:  $35 (save $6)
Google TV Streamer 4K With Voice Search Remote (Porcelain):  $84 (save $16)
Fire TV Cube 4K HDR Streaming Device (3rd Generation):  $100 (save $40) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Fire TV Stick for 2025: Fire Stick 4K, Lite and More
What's the best Fire TV Stick?
Best Fire TV Sticks of 2025
Best Fire TV Stick overall
Second-best Fire TV Stick
Best budget streamer
Best for hands-free Alexa, smart home control
Best non-4K runner-up to the Lite
Factors to consider when choosing a Fire TV Stick
How we test Fire TV devices
Other TV Sticks we've tested
Fire TV Stick FAQ
This story is part of
Gift Guide, our year-round collection of the best gift ideas.
What's the best Fire TV Stick? When looking at all the great options offered by the variety of Fire TV Sticks on the market, we have given our top spot to the Fire TV Stick 4K Max. It launches apps quickly, and navigating around feels fast and smooth, thanks to its robust processor. It also comes with Dolby Vision support and Wi-Fi 6 for faster streaming. Best Fire TV Sticks of 2025
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best Fire TV Stick overall
Fire TV Stick 4K Max
8.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
Ambient mode is useful
Excellent picture and sound
Loading times are zippy
Cons
Slightly more expensive
Interface is more crowded than ever
Roku and Google offer better values
If you're looking for the best Fire Stick on the market, the Fire TV Stick 4K Max is it. The Max is speedy and loads apps almost immediately, and navigating around the system is swift and smooth. Even better, the Max supports Wi-Fi 6 and nearly all the latest playback standards, including Dolby Vision. The downside to the Max is its Fire TV platform with ads featured prominently throughout. We just don't appreciate the TV becoming a giant rotating billboard for content or ads when in screensaver mode. But this is a good choice for those looking for the best and fastest Amazon Fire TV stick.  ... Show more
Get it now
$104 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
4.25 x 1.18 x 0.55 inchesResolution
4KHDR
Dolby Vision, HDR10, HDR10+Dolby Atmos
Yes Score Breakdown
Features
8
Value
8
Design
7
Ecosystem
10
Performance
9
Learn more
Fire TV Stick 4K Max review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Second-best Fire TV Stick
Fire TV Stick 4K
Pros
Slightly more affordable
4K streaming
Impressive voice features
Great value
Cons
Not as fast as other models
No Wi-Fi 6 connectivity
User interface pushes Amazon content too aggressively
The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K debuted in 2018 and is still around today. While we generally think it's worth it to upgrade to the Max, the original Fire TV Stick 4K is still a good choice for those who want 4K streaming without paying for the latest bells and whistles, namely Wi-Fi 6 and blazing-fast speed. The voice features are impressive and Echo and Dot owners can control it with Alexa. Its app and game selection is superb and responses are still fast, though not as fast as on the Max. The remote can control volume and power on TVs and soundbars. Ultimately, if the price of the Fire TV Stick 4K is close to the Max, we recommend passing on this and getting the newer and faster Max.  ... Show more
Get it now
$30 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
3.96 x 1.18 x 0.55 inchesResolution
4KHDR
Dolby Vision, HDR10, HDR10+Dolby Atmos
Yes
Learn more
Fire TV Stick 4K review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best budget streamer
Fire TV Stick Lite
Pros
Dirt cheap
Includes Alexa voice remote
Wide range of streaming apps, including Max
Integrates well with Echo speakers
Cons
Voice commands don't work with every app
More complex menus than Roku
HDR without 4K is kind of pointless
The Amazon Fire TV Stick Lite is our favorite budget streaming device, besting the Roku Express. The Lite trounces the Express in features-for-the-money. This Fire TV's biggest advantage is a remote with built-in voice search and control powered by Alexa. The cheapest Roku with a voice remote is the Express Plus 4K, which uses Roku's more basic voice system, not Alexa. The Fire Stick's remote also doesn't need line of sight to work. If you want to spend as little as possible on a streaming player, the Lite is your best bet.  ... Show more
Get it now
$20 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
3.38 x 1.18 x 0.49 inchesResolution
Full HDHDR
HDR10, HDR10+Dolby Atmos
No
Learn more
Fire TV Stick Lite review
Add to compare
Sarah Lord/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Lord/CNET
Best for hands-free Alexa, smart home control
Fire TV Cube
Pros
Sleek design
Speedy processor
4K upscaling
Cons
Smart TV features don't work with every TV manufacturer
Alexa isn't always reliable
Difficult to set up equipment control in some situations
The 2022 Fire TV Cube adds a handful of bells and whistles, including 4K upscaling and a faster processor, to a device that's been around for a while. The Cube has always been a mash-up of the Fire TV Stick and an Alexa speaker, allowing you to use your voice to search for shows and adjust the volume and inputs on your TV, dim lights, make Zoom calls (audio-only, unless you add a webcam), stream music and check the weather -- all hands-free, without using the remote. It also features an octa-core processor and 2GB of memory for lightning-fast streaming in 4K, as well as audio support for Dolby Atmos. That said, the latest version of the Cube has difficulty controlling devices connected to your TV -- especially if that TV happens to be a TCL -- and often misses the mark when integrating Alexa commands with your cable box.   ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
3.38 x 3.38 x 2.99 inchesResolution
4KHDR
Dolby Vision, HDR10, HDR10+Dolby Atmos
Yes
Learn more
Fire TV Cube review
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best non-4K runner-up to the Lite
Fire TV Stick
Pros
Inexpensive
Remote offers Alexa voice and TV control
Wide range of streaming apps
Integrates well with Echo speakers
Cons
The cheaper Lite is a better value
The step-up 4K stick is better for 4K TVs
More complex menus than Roku
Although the Lite is a better value, the Amazon Fire TV Stick is another good choice for those who are still rocking regular HD TVs. The main difference between the Fire TV Stick and the cheaper Fire TV Stick Lite lies in the remote control. Fire Stick's remote has buttons for volume, mute and power, allowing you to control those functions on your TV. The Lite lacks these capabilities and is therefore slightly less expensive. If you have a 1080p TV and don't mind paying a little more for a remote that can control the volume on your TV, the Fire TV Stick is a good choice for you.  ... Show more
Get it now
$25 at Amazon
$25 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Size
3.38 x 1.22 x 0.55 inchesResolution
Full HDHDR
HDR10, HDR10+Dolby Atmos
Yes
Learn more
Fire TV Stick review
Add to compareFactors to consider when choosing a Fire TV Stick
BudgetBefore anything else, consider how much you're willing to spend on a Fire TV Stick. Higher-end models can cost up to $140, like the impressive Fire TV Cube. But if your budget is tighter, there are plenty of simpler yet effective Fire TV Sticks priced as low as $20. The entry-level standard Fire TV Stick, for example, offers HD playback if your television is compatible. Plenty of options exist for a range of budgets and all your streaming needs. Use casesConsider what exactly you'll be using your Fire TV Stick for. Are you hoping to turn your TV into a smart TV,
or are you looking for extra services beyond what your smart TV already offers? Maybe you're hoping to use your Fire TV Stick to control your smart home technology. Make sure your use cases align with the capabilities of the Fire TV Stick you choose. 4K and HDRModels like the Fire TV Cube, Fire TV Stick 4K and the 4K Max support 4K resolutions and HDR protocols, while the Fire TV Stick Lite and standard Fire TV Stick do not. If you're not too concerned about high-resolution streaming or your TV model doesn't support anything above 1080p, the latter models should suit your needs. Otherwise, you may want to opt for one of the 4K Sticks. Alexa integrationAll five Fire TV Stick models have remotes with built-in voice search and control powered by Alexa. But if you're looking for something a bit more advanced, the Fire TV Cube may be your best bet. That's because it's equipped with the full capabilities of a separate Alexa speaker, allowing you to use your TV hands-free, without a remote. Full Alexa integration also means that the Cube can control your smart-home gadgets, like lights and thermostats. While plain Fire Stick variants can also do this, they require a connection with a separate Amazon Echo speaker. If you're looking for an Alexa-speaker-streaming-device combination, you'd likely be happiest with the Fire TV Cube. If this isn't your top priority, or you already have an Echo speaker, one of the Fire TV Sticks will be fine.
How we test Fire TV devices
Every Fire TV Stick we review receives hours of hands-on testing. Typically, this involves installing the device on multiple TVs, evaluating the setup process, adding popular streaming channels and using the product as if it were our own. We use all of the major features available and note how they stack up against other Fire TV models in the company's lineup. To do this, we hook up multiple Fire TV streaming devices to the same TV so we can switch back and forth easily to compare the experiences.The metrics we use to rate a device include hardware design, distinctive features that differentiate models, remote capabilities and design, overall ease of use, effective layouts and design, search capabilities, privacy settings, the number of apps and their performance and the overall speed and reliability of the system. Other TV Sticks we've tested
Roku Express 4K Plus: The Express 4K Plus streaming media player is one of the cheapest streaming TV options with 4K HDR. (Even if your current TV doesn't support those formats, your next one probably will.) Thanks to the AirPlay update, this Roku device is one of the least expensive ways to connect your iPhone or other Apple device to your TV. It is cheaper than the company's Streaming Stick 4K Plus and other 4K HDR streaming devices, and it's our top pick for best streaming device overall.Chromecast with Google TV 4K: Chromecast outdoes Roku by adding Dolby Vision compatibility, but its biggest smart device strength is Google Assistant voice search, which works well for finding stuff to watch. We also like the impressive integration with other Google services such as Google Photos and YouTube TV. The interface is more evolved-looking than Roku, but ultimately we prefer Roku's simpler approach, no-nonsense search results and lower price. That said, the new Chromecast is a better smart streaming device choice for those already living in Google's world.Apple TV 4K: The Apple TV 4K continues to be a good choice for those who want an Apple device to use Apple Arcade for gaming or take full advantage of their Apple One subscription bundles. Video purists will appreciate its flexible HDR and TV calibration feature. For most people, however, Apple's venerable remote control streaming device just isn't worth the money, especially now that Roku has nearly all the major apps and AirPlay. If you really want Dolby Vision, you can find that on the Roku Streaming Stick 4K at a fraction of the price.Roku Streaming Stick 4K: The Roku Streaming Stick 4K features the same simple interface, large app selection and impressive search function found on all Roku devices, but also offers Dolby Vision support. While we think the Streaming Stick 4K is a great device, we're just not sold on the Dolby Vision upgrade -- mostly because we generally don't think that it provides a major image quality upgrade over standard HDR. But if Dolby Vision is important to you, this device will not disappoint. Fire TV Stick FAQ
What's the difference between a Fire TV device and a Fire TV television?
A Fire TV device, like the ones in this list, is a small stick-shaped or square piece of hardware that plugs into an HDMI port at the back of your TV. This gives your TV access to Amazon Fire TV software and content, no matter what brand of TV you own. Amazon also makes Fire TVs, which are televisions that come with Fire TV software preinstalled. This means that your TV will automatically have access to the Fire TV interface without the need for an additional streaming device.
Show more
What streaming apps are on Fire TV?
Fire TV offers a long list of streaming apps, including Netflix, Disney Plus, Apple TV, Hulu, HBO Max, Paramount Plus, Peacock TV, Tubi, Pluto TV, Showtime, Discovery Plus and others. Spectrum cable users, however, do not have access to the Spectrum app on Fire TV.
Show more
Do I need an Amazon Prime membership to use Fire TV?
No, though you will need a free Amazon account in order to set up the device. While you don't need to pay for a Prime membership to use Amazon Fire TV, it is useful and recommended. Membership comes with a selection of Prime Video content, including access to shows such as The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, The Expanse and Wheel of Time. These shows and other Amazon-branded content are heavily advertised in the Fire TV system and a Prime membership makes it easier to check out all that Amazon has to offer.
Show more
What is the best streaming device?
Of the Fire Stick models, we prefer the Fire TV Stick 4K Max. It launches apps quickly, and navigating around feels fast and smooth, thanks to its robust processor. It also comes with Dolby Vision support and Wi-Fi 6 for faster streaming. But when looking at all the great options on the market, we've given our top spot to the Roku Express 4K Plus. With the most streaming app options, the simplest streaming platform interface and the best search, the Express 4K plus is an excellent substitute to many Fire Stick devices. Unlike the Amazon-owned Fire Stick, the Roku also has a content-agnostic platform that doesn't push any one media streaming service provider, like Amazon Prime Video or Apple, over another.
Show more
Is there a monthly fee for a Fire TV Stick?
No, there is no monthly fee to use an Amazon Fire TV Stick. While you do need an Amazon account to set up the device, an Amazon Prime subscription is not required. Remember that many streaming services and channels do require a subscription to access them, like Netflix, Hulu or Disney Plus. Don't worry, though -- there are some great free options out there (Tubi, Pluto and Freevee are our top picks for the best free TV streaming services). With a Fire TV Stick in hand, you're sure to find great content with or without a subscription.
Show more
Is there a new Fire TV Stick coming out in 2025?
Amazon announced the new Fire TV Stick HD in October of 2024 to replace both the Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Stick Lite. The newest model, available for $35, delivers much of the same experience you'd expect from our current roundup of Fire TV Stick devices like 1080p resolution and Alexa integration.
Show more
About the Author
Sarah Lord Writer Sarah Lord Writer
Sarah Lord covers TVs and home entertainment. Prior to joining CNET, Sarah served as the tech and electronic reviews fellow at Insider, where she wrote about everything from smart watches and wearables to tablets and e-readers. She began her career by writing laptop reviews as an intern and subsequent freelancer at Tom's Hardware. She is also a professional actor with many credits in theater, film and television.
Read full bio
Home Entertainment Guides
TVs
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best TV Deals
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
Streaming & TV Accessories
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
Speakers
Best Bluetooth Speaker
Best Portable Mini Bluetooth Speaker
Best Speakers
Best Wi-Fi Speaker
Best Speakerphone for Working from Home
Best Sonos Speakers
Projectors
Best Home Theater Projector
Best 4k Projector
Best Portable Projector
Best Outdoor Projector
Big TV vs Projector
Other Home Entertainment
Best Record Player
Best Home Theater System
Best Blu-ray Player
Best DVR for Cord Cutters
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.