Hungryroot: Our Honest Review - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessNutrition Meal Kits
I Tried Hungryroot. It's a Quirky Mix of Meal Kits and Grocery Delivery to Fuel Your Busy Week
Editors' Choice: Combine complete meat kits with regular groceries through Hungryroot's adaptable food subscription service.
Article updated on December 4, 2024 at 10:43 AM PST
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
9.0/ 10
SCORE Hungryroot
Buy at Hungryroot
Score Breakdown Freshness
9/10Taste/results
10/10Value
9/10Recipe variety
9/10Healthiness
8/10
Pros
Similar to meal kits but without restricting you to specific recipes
Food arrived fresh and orderly
More convenient than going to the grocery store
Good for discovering new foods
Items can be easily used in other recipes
Tons of options for vegans and vegetarians
Cons
Slightly more expensive than buying all the groceries yourself
Canceling must be done after your most recent box is shipped
Table of Contents
I Tried Hungryroot. It's a Quirky Mix of Meal Kits and Grocery Delivery to Fuel Your Busy Week
How does Hungryroot grocery delivery work?
Swapping items is easy (and fun)
Hungryroot pricing
How much Hungryroot costs vs. buying everything yourself
Food you'll use, not lose
Hungryroot learns what you like and don't like
How easy is Hungryroot to pause or cancel?
Who is Hungryroot good for?
Who is Hungryroot not good for?
Verdict: Is Hungyroot worth it?
What are Hungryroot's recipes?
2023
As we approach the coziest time of the year, cooking at home becomes more enticing. For those of us who don't spend a lot of time in the kitchen, putting together a weekly meal plan of nutritious meals can feel like an uphill battle. If you're not a fan of grocery shopping, then meal delivery services offer a nice medium between cooking from scratch and buying prepared meals.Better yet, Hungryroot gives you ultimate control over your meal cooking. I tried the flexible food subscription that sends weekly boxes of groceries, suggested meals to make with them and even a few prepared foods and ready-to-eat items for days when cooking just isn't happening. The Hungryroot subscription service is simple to set up and fun to use. Hungryroot is reasonably priced, and although the selection is somewhat limited, it's carefully chosen. For those who appreciate Trader Joe's but dislike the queues, Hungryroot merits consideration. I tested a few weeks' worth of Hungryroot to discover its advantages, drawbacks and any fine print you'll want to know before you dive in.
Hungryroot is like a meal kit company that encourages you to go rogue from the recipe. HungryrootBest Meal Delivery Services for 2024
See at Cnet
Below you'll find the skinny on Hungryroot grocery delivery and how to get started with the upstart grocery subscription. I even compared Hungryroot's groceries to those of a national supermarket to find out how much you'll spend -- or save. If you decide to try it, Hungryroot will knock 30% off your first order, too.How does Hungryroot grocery delivery work?Unlike traditional meal kits, Hungryroot tailors a delivery of groceries with simple recipe suggestions that can be created from them. While services like Blue Apron and Sunbasket lock you into recipes with rather specific ingredients portioned for that particular meal, Hungryroot sends packaged goods often in the way you'd find them at a supermarket. To start, Hungryroot gathers a bunch of information on your eating habits and preferences to get the best food to your door. The quiz asks about foods you like and don't like, along with any dietary restrictions (Hungryroot has a robust offering for plant-based eaters). It'll also find out which meals you're interested in receiving ingredients for -- breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacks or all four.
Hungryroot wants to get to know you first so they can tailor your box of suggested recipes and food items.  Screenshot by David Watsky/CNETAfter you log your food preferences via the questionnaire, choose a delivery address and date and supply a credit card, Hungryroot will curate a list of suggested groceries and recipes. Some are standalone food items while others are intended to make easy meals such as simple egg and cheese sandwiches for breakfast, or curry chicken wraps for lunch or a light dinner. The online market stocks Hungryroot-branded products mixed in with name-brand grocery staples and goods made by small, independent producers of food, drinks and snacks. Shortcuts are the name of the game, with items such as precooked and shredded chicken to make a fast chicken salad wrap, or healthy sous vide egg bites to air fry in the morning before work. Most of Hungryroot's suggested recipes are intended to feed you and the crew for multiple meals per week. Almost everything can also be used outside of the recipe if you decide you're not feeling that particular meal, so you won't be stuck with various packets of seasoning, sauces or bunches of herbs that you might not know how to use otherwise.
Questions are centered around your tastes and food preferences, of course, but also to figure out your meal frequency and schedule. Hungryroot/Screenshot by CNETSwapping items is easy (and fun)Before you submit your week's order, you can easily swap items that don't appeal to you. Each food is assigned a credit value and once you delete an item from the cart, you'll be given those credits to spend on anything else including produce, snacks, meat, fish, dairy products and tons more. If you want something that exceeds your credit value, you can cancel other items to give yourself enough credits or go over and Hungryroot will charge your card on file for the amount. Hungryroot makes suggestions for replacement items too. If you cancel your whole-wheat bread, as an example, a few other bread options will pop up but you're not beholden to them in any way.
Here's everything I got in my Hungryroot delivery. Total cost: $120. David Watsky/CNETYou can also cancel or swap out entire recipes if you want and you'll receive credits to pick a new one or select grocery items a la carte. It's like someone walking with you through the store saying, "Hey, I think you might like this based on what you've told me," and then very much letting you decide if you'd like to try it or not.When I placed my order, I was given three recipe suggestions: egg and cheese sandwiches with seven-grain bread, curry chicken and broccolini wraps (lunch) and a Thai coconut chicken and green bean stir fry. The rest of my order was made up of snacks, cheeses, breakfast items, proteins and meal starters.Here's how the price per serving breaks down: Hungryroot pricing
Servings per weekCost per serving 6 $108 $910 $8.7512 $8.49
Plans start at $65. Hungryroot gives you the option to add more servings in increments of two to four with a flat increase of $10, and the cost per serving decreases the more you order. Shipping is free for any plan over $70 per week.Hungryroot's pricing varies based on what plan you choose. Each plan comes with "credits" that correlate to the number of servings you've chosen. The price of your box will remain the same each week if you always use the same amount of credits. Some ingredients, like meats, use up more credits than others, so you'll either have to pay more for meat-heavy boxes or settle for fewer servings.Cheapest Places to Buy Groceries Online
See at Cnet
How much Hungryroot costs vs. buying everything yourselfTo calculate the value of a Hungryroot subscription, I priced out each item I received in my shipment using the lowest price I could find from a local grocery delivery service like FreshDirect or Instacart. Some items are Hungryroot branded; in those cases, I found another similar item of similar portion size and used that price.Andrew & Everett shredded mozzarella: $5.69Andrew & Everett shredded cheddar: $5.69Vital Farms ready-pour eggs: $4.49Angelic seven-grain bread: $7Angelic sweet potato wraps: $4.59Pizza Gourmet wood-grilled flatbread: $5Tucson Tamale sausage and cheese breakfast tamale: $3.29Three Little Pigs prosciutto (2 ounces): $8Three Little Pigs egg bite (1): $2.59Trimmed green beans: ($3) Keven's Paleo Thai coconut chicken: $11Rastelli's albacore tuna steaks (2): $14Mighty Spark bruschetta chicken burgers (2): $7Seasoned grilled chicken breast: $7Lesser Evil Himalayan salt popcorn: $4.29Hass avocado: $3Red onion: $1Hungryroot coconut curry sauce (8 ounces): $6Sweet baby broccoli (8 ounces): $4.59Hungryroot total: $120Groceries if purchased separately: $107Difference: +$13For my grocery order, Hungryroot proved to be $13 more expensive than if I were to buy the groceries individually. It's worth mentioning that these items vary in price depending on where you live. For me in New York, where the cost of living is high, these groceries would likely cost a smidge more if purchased at my local markets. I also didn't include the delivery fee for a typical grocery service like Instacart or Fresh Direct. Nor did I account for the cost of gas driving to and from the market.With Hungryroot you're paying a little extra for the convenience of curated recipe suggestions and also food being delivered straight to your doorstep.
My box showed up on time and in good shape.  David Watsky/CNETFood you'll use, not loseOne thing Hungryroot does well is to stock food items that can either function as small meals themselves such as the excellent breakfast tamales and sous vide egg bites or that can be easily integrated to make more complex meals and recipes. Even the food intended for recipes is often more than you'll need, so then it's up to you to decide how to use it.
All the fixings for an easy curry chicken wrap lunch with baby broccoli.  David Watsky/CNET
Et voilà! David Watsky/CNETThe loaf of seven-grain bread, for instance, did double duty. I used it for its intended egg and cheese sandwiches but also made a toasty grilled cheese for lunch one day with the mozzarella cheese and prosciutto that was also included in my box. Since I only really needed half of the trimmed green beans for my Thai curry stir-fry, I paired the rest with the tuna steaks for dinner on another night. I also used the sweet potato wraps, shredded cheddar and some salsa I had on hand for a quick quesadilla one afternoon.
Hungryroot sends ingredients that lend themselves to quick and easy culinary creations.  David Watsky/CNETAs much as I enjoy meal kits, once you select your recipes for the following week, you are more or less locked in. It's the flexibility Hungryroot affords that separates it from most other meal kit and meal delivery operations. For someone who enjoys cooking creatively and whose desires change on a whim, this format works especially well.
The spinach and feta sous vide egg bite would have been great on its own but with good prosciutto and seven-grain brad, how could I resist? David Watsky/CNETThe only ingredient I thought I might not use all of was the 8-ounce jar of Thai curry sauce. I only used about half the jar to make the intended recipe and the meal was still more than enough for me and my dining partner. There was no other natural fit in my grocery order to use the rest of it on, so I bought some eggplant and chickpeas and made a vegan curry meal a few nights later. Hungryroot learns what you like and don't likeAfter each delivery, Hungryroot surveys you on what you liked and didn't. It asks you to rate each recipe but also to decide if you'd want certain food items again and how frequently: never, sometimes or often.
Hungryroot follows up to find out what you did and didn't like. Hungryroot/Screenshot by CNETHow easy is Hungryroot to pause or cancel?If you sign up for a subscription to Hungryroot you'll keep getting curated boxes of groceries. You can customize your order every week but unless you cancel, it'll continue to send boxes and charge your card.One small annoyance is that you can't cancel your subscription until your order is fulfilled and shipped (generally same-day shipping) so you'll have to set a reminder to cancel typically a few days after you've confirmed your latest order. Who is Hungryroot good for?If you've tried meal kits and like the concept but find that you're not always in the mood to make the recipes that arrive, I'd suggest trying Hungryroot. You can select full recipes, but they're never so complex that you can't use the ingredients in other, often simpler ways if you want. Speaking of the recipes, Hungryroot's are mostly easy, sometimes with as few as three ingredients. I made a paleo Thai chicken stir-fry, for instance, with pre-cooked chicken, a packet of tasty Thai curry sauce and green beans (uncooked) that turned out great and took almost no time or effort.
This paleo-friendly Thai chicken with green beans dinner took about 10 minutes to make. It wasn't anything fancy but definitely hit the spot. David Watsky/CNETHungryroot also functions like an easy grocery delivery service making suggestions for new and interesting foods and snacks each week based on your preferences so it's a good pick for anyone who wants to cut down on trips to the market. It's a bit like Trader Joe's with some fun, proprietary products you probably won't find elsewhere, so I'd suggest Hungryroot for anyone looking to expand their arsenal of ingredients. Who is Hungryroot not good for?If your goal is to improve your cooking skills and learn to make recipes fit for a dinner party, this probably isn't the right service. Hungryroot is more about shortcuts and quick meals than it is about serious cooking. For that, I'd suggest a full meal kit service such as Sunbasket or Blue Apron.
Hungryroot has expansive options for vegans and vegetarians.  HungryrootVerdict: Is Hungyroot worth it?Hungryroot makes meal prep for mealtime and snacking super easy and even fun. It's also a great medium for discovering interesting new foods, snacks and recipes without the pressure to make or eat something you're not in the mood for. The service curated a tailored bundle of groceries that kept me satisfied for most of the meals throughout the week, all for just a few bucks more than if I went out and got the groceries myself. I found the ordering and customizing process easy and liked the recipe and grocery suggestions, but also that I could easily swap out items and peruse the extensive market for other things I wanted more. Upon arrival, I found all the food to be fresh and a lot of it was interesting. The meals I made were simple but tasty and I was turned on to a few brands and products I wasn't aware of. The bruschetta chicken burgers, for instance, were an easy meal and a big hit when I sizzled them on the grill one evening. A nice change of pace from the burger and chicken routine. The breakfast tamale was a revelation and a welcome shakeup of my famously mundane breakfast regimen (I definitely plan on ordering more of those). If you're looking for easy answers to that perpetual question "What's for dinner?" but find traditional meal kits a bit too restrictive, Hungryroot is a perfect alternative for all the freestyle home cooks out there.See at HungryrootWhat are Hungryroot's recipes?
Classic chile pork carnitas tacos are peak summer fare. HungryrootMost popular Hungryroot recipes this weekSeared ribeye and creamy mashed potatoesChile chicken and black bean tacosPork bratwurst and spicy mustardCheesy ground beef tacos and zucchiniRotisserie chicken green goddess saladGuac'd-up veggie cheeseburgerMediterranean chicken pita sandwichRainbow cilantro lime chicken tacosBeyond brussels sesame ginger stir-fryClassic chile pork carnitas tacosSee the full slate of Hungryroot recipes here.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Nutrition Guides
Meal Delivery
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Hungryroot Review
EveryPlate Review
Best Vegan Meal Delivery Service
Best Vegetarian Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Best Grocery Delivery Service
Fresh N Lean Review
Blue Apron vs. Hello Fresh
Dieting Program Guides
Best Weight Loss Programs
Optavia Diet Review
Noom Diet Review
Nutrisystem Diet Review
Weight Watchers Diet Review
Noom vs. Weight Watchers
Vitamin and Supplement Guides
Best Multivitamins
Best Multivitamins for Men
Best Multivitamins for Women
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Probiotics
Best Supplements to Gain Weight
Best Vitamin Subscription
Best Vitamins for Energy
Best Vitamins and Supplements for Joint Health
Best Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.