Andor's Alex Lawther was shocked to hear his Star Wars manifesto went viral
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The Alien: Earth star reflects on his iconic Andor performance
Andor's Alex Lawther was shocked to hear his Star Wars manifesto went viral
By
Jake Kleinman
Published 3 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Andor
Related
Sonic Racing keeps throwing messy potshots at Mario Kart World
4 days ago
1:36
Link and Zelda aren't dating, you weirdos
7 days ago
The 8 best Metroidvania game to play after Silksong
Sep 13, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Credit: Image: Lucasfilm
“Tyranny requires constant effort. It breaks. It leaks. Authority is brittle. Oppression is the mask of fear.” In one of the final moments of Andor, a room of Imperial officers listen to a recording of an anti-fascist manifesto that’s broadcasting across the galaxy. As the audio stops, one of them remarks: “Just keeps spreading, doesn't it?” The manifesto is read passionately by Alex Lawther, who plays the revolutionary figure Nemik in Andor season 1 and dies during a critical mission when he’s crushed by a pallet of stolen Imperial credits. The fact that his beliefs live on fits nicely with his own beliefs in the power of revolution. Nemik’s speech resonated with fans when he first delivered it in season 1, and it only becomes more powerful as a capstone to the entire show. But for Lawther, the news that fans had become fixated on his character’s manifesto came as a surprise. “I had no idea,” Lawther tells Polygon. (Lawther currently stars in Alien: Earth, and we’ll have more from him on the FX series in another article soon.) He only found out long after filming season 1, when Andor showrunner Tony Gilroy let him know the speech would be reused as a coda for the series finale. “He wrote this very beautiful email about the resonance of that particular piece of writing,” Lawther says. When I ask what the email says, the actor quickly pulls it up on his computer and starts to read: "I'm sure you're aware of how deeply our work together has landed — And I was like, Oh, actually, I'm not really that aware of those things.”
Credit: Image: Lucasfilm
Before they recorded the original speech, Lawther said he bugged Gilroy incessantly to reveal the content of Nemik’s manifesto. The writer declined until the very last minute, which Lawther admits in hindsight was probably for the best. “I'm glad I didn't have time to sit with it,” Lawther says. “I'm glad that we just did it off the cuff. When writing is good, it's better not to spend too much time thinking about it. The writing does a lot of the work.” The fact that those words came back in Andor’s final episode are a nice bonus for Lawther, who otherwise has nothing to do with the show’s second season. “Because of Tony's cleverness, I get to sort of live on in a way,” he says. “But I wish I hadn't been killed by that trolley full of credits.”
Star Wars
TV
Sci-fi
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
7 days ago
Henry Cavill’s Witcher replacement picks up the sword in first season 4 trailer
6 days ago
The 10 biggest problems with Wednesday season 2
Sep 13, 2025
PlayStation's first generation embraced the weird
5 days ago
The Super Mario Galaxy Movie might actually confirm important Princess Peach lore
Most Popular
This anime fight is one of the best of all time, but not for the reason you might think
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle reveals why not every anime can become a movie
Alien: Earth just pulled off a surprising first for the franchise's iconic monster
My most-played Switch 2 game is this roguelike you've never heard of
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Sonic the Hedgehog is so back, but for real this time
See More
Trending Now
Him star Julia Fox reveals her character's secret backstory
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
Vampire: The Masquerade — Bloodlines 2 feels like Assassin's Creed stapled to Disco Elysium
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.