Man gets over 4 years in prison for selling unreleased movies
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityMan gets over 4 years in prison for selling unreleased movies
Man gets over 4 years in prison for selling unreleased movies
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 12, 2025
07:36 AM
3
A Tennessee court has sentenced a Memphis man who worked for a DVD and Blu-ray manufacturing and distribution company to 57 months in prison for stealing and selling digital copies of unreleased movies.
37-year-old Steven R. Hale was charged in March with selling ripped DVD and Blu-ray discs of movies before their release. Prosecutors stated at the time that Hale had stolen numerous discs of movies that were being prepared for commercial distribution in the United States between February 2021 and March 2022.
In May 2025, Hale admitted to committing criminal copyright infringement and agreed to fully compensate the victims, including returning to his employer approximately 1,160 DVDs and Blu-rays that investigators had seized from him during searches.
Hale, a convicted felon with previous armed robbery charges, also pleaded guilty to unlawfully possessing a firearm found with one round in the chamber and 13 in the magazine.
"The copyright owner lost tens of millions of dollars as a result of Steven Hale stealing DVDs and Blu-rays of blockbuster movies and selling them before their official scheduled release dates," said FBI Special Agent in Charge Joseph E. Carrico on Thursday.
As the Justice Department revealed in March, Hale sold ripped versions of the stolen pre-release DVDs and Blu-rays through various e-commerce sites.
The list of stolen movie discs includes "Godzilla v. Kong," "Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings," "Dune," "F9: The Fast Saga," "Venom: Let There Be Carnage," and "Black Widow."
He was also accused of ripping the pre-release "Spider-Man: No Way Home" Blu-ray and sharing a digital copy extracted from it online, after bypassing the encryption preventing unauthorized copying.
"That digital copy was then illegally made available over the internet more than a month before the Blu-ray's official scheduled release date," the Justice Department said. "Copies of 'Spider-Man: No Way Home' were downloaded tens of millions of times, with an estimated loss to the copyright owner of tens of millions of dollars."
In early March, prosecutors in New York charged two individuals employed by a third-party contractor for the StubHub online ticket marketplace with profiting $635,000 from the resale of nearly 1,000 stolen tickets for Taylor Swift's Eras Tour and various other events, such as the U.S. Open Tennis Championships, Ed Sheeran concerts, Adele concerts, and multiple NBA games.
Twenty-year-old Tyrone Rose and 31-year-old Shamara Simmons, both employees of Sutherland Global Services in Jamaica, were detained in New York City and are now facing a possible maximum penalty of up to 15 years behind bars.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Sports streaming piracy service with 123M yearly visits shut downOperator of Jetflicks illegal streaming service gets 7 years in prisonPolice disrupts Streameast, largest pirated sports streaming networkDev gets 4 years for creating kill switch on ex-employer's systemsUK sentences “serial hacker” of 3,000 sites to 20 months in prison
Blockbuster
Blu-ray
Movies and TV
Piracy
Prison
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
Wannabetech1
-
3 days ago
So here in N.Y. State, you don't go to prison for committing actual violent crimes. I wonder about Tenn.?
Elastoer
-
2 days ago
When will people realize that this sort of thing isn't worth it in the long run? When I was much younger, decades ago, kids didn't do this sort of thing. They knew if they got caught their parents would beat them senseless.
Winston2021
-
1 day ago
Meanwhile, those responsible for the virus THAT NEVER SHOULD HAVE EXISTED which killed 7 million, did over 20 TRILLION dollars worth of economic damage worldwide, along with their
foolish, damaging and often mandated reactions to it which destroyed small businesses worldwide and stunted child development via school closures and mask wearing roam free, unprosecuted, while this guy gets 5 years behind bars for selling plastic discs containing, from the list given, typically garbage modern films.
He deserved the penalty. I'm just comparing relative outcomes. Don't cross corporations kids.
They own this place.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Sponsor Posts
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT