Best Travel Pillows for Your 2025 Summer Vacations - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Wellness Sleep
Best Travel Pillows for Your 2025 Summer Vacations
This summer, sleep comfortably in a car, plane or train with an expert-tested travel pillow.
Aly Lopez Former Writer I Aly Lopez was a writer on the sleep and wellness team at CNET. She tested, researched and reviewed sleep and health-related products, technology and trends. She received her bachelor's degree in sociology from Central College and is a certified sleep science coach from the Spencer Institute. Aly is passionate about helping others improve their lives by writing about ways to get better sleep and improve their overall health and wellness.
See full bio
Aly Lopez
June 8, 2025
6:00 a.m. PT 11 min read
Travelrest Nest Ultimate Memory Foam
Best overall travel pillow
$40 at Amazon
AirComfy Ease Inflatable Travel Pillow Best affordable travel pillow
$20 at Amazon
Trtl Travel Pillow Best adjustable travel pillow
$60 at Amazon
Hest Pro Travel Pillow Best multipurpose travel pillow
$89 at Hest
Bcozzy Neck Pillow Best everyday travel pillow
$45 at Amazon
Travelrest: All-In-One Ultimate Travel Pillow Best inflatable travel pillow
$40 at Travelrest
Ostrichpillow Original Napping Pillow Best unique travel pillow
$99 at Ostrich Pillow
Pluto Pod 2.0 Best premium travel pillow
$145 at Pluto
Cabeau Evolution Kids Best travel pillow for kids
$30 at Cabeau
Show more (4 items)
Table of Contents
Best Travel Pillows for Your 2025 Summer Vacations
How we tested the best travel pillows
Video: Unboxing the travel pillows
Best overall travel pillow
Honorable mentions
Two of our CNET sleep experts tested and reviewed 11 travel pillows.
Aly Lopez/CNETThis summer, sleep is achievable even when you're miles from home. Whether you're flying, taking a train or enjoying a road trip, a good travel pillow allows you to arrive at your destination feeling refreshed. The right travel pillow will also provide crucial neck support and prevent your head from moving around, improving your chances of getting decent sleep while traveling. This isn't just about comfort -- proper sleep during travel helps prevent jet lag on long journeys and keeps you in good health when you're in a new environment. Our expert-tested recommendations will help you find the perfect travel companion for restful journeys.How we tested the best travel pillows
CNET sleep experts JD Christison and Aly Lopez tested over a dozen travel pillows. Wesley Ott/CNETCNET senior video producer and sleep expert JD Christison and I conducted hands-on (and heads-on) tests of all the travel pillows in this best list, including our honorable mentions. The main characteristics we analyzed were portability, adjustability, materials or construction, additional features (such as washability) and price. We unpacked the travel pillows and discussed our initial thoughts on each one. We then put them to the test by wearing them in the car while traveling on bumpy and windy roads to see if they could keep us comfortable and supported. We each took turns testing the pillows by sitting in various positions and wearing them in different ways as the pillow functionalities allowed. We also tested them individually on various road trips, flights and train rides throughout the year.Our selections for this list were based on various characteristics depending on your potential needs and preferences, such as the best affordable, multipurpose, adjustable and inflatable travel pillows. Here are the best travel pillows to help you get some Zzzs on your next trip.Video: Unboxing the travel pillowsWatch us unbox and give our first impressions of the travel pillows. Best overall travel pillowAfter testing and reviewing over a dozen travel pillows, we chose Travelrest’s Nest Ultimate Memory Foam Travel Pillow as the best overall, thanks to its affordable pricing, quality materials and highly comfortable, traditional design. It has a machine-washable cover that's easy to put on and take off, which is an important feature to look for if you want to keep your travel pillow fresh and clean.
Aly Lopez/CNET
Travelrest Nest Ultimate Memory Foam
Best overall travel pillow
$40 at Amazon
$40 at Walmart
JD and I immediately enjoyed the feel and fit of Travelrest's Nest Ultimate Memory Foam, which offers a traditional travel pillow shape and design. Its high-quality memory foam conformed nicely to our necks and shoulders, and the microfiber cover is super soft and cozy. It comfortably supported our heads without feeling overbearing.This pillow's textured backing helps hold it in place, which worked well in our testing. The Travelrest Nest pillow easily squishes down to a quarter of its full size to fit in the small carrying pouch. It's easy to travel with and keep clean in the bag. The cover is removable and machine washable, another trait we recommend looking for in a travel pillow.It has a velcro strap in the front, but this pillow is not as adjustable as some of the other pillows we tested. It's a one-size-fits-all pillow, so it may be a little big for individuals with smaller frames. At $40, this is an average price for travel pillows of this quality.Pros:Comfortable contouring memory foamMachine washable microfiber coverNon-slip material on the backCons:Only one sizeNot adjustableReturn policy: 30 daysWarranty: One-year limited warrantyWashability: Machine-washable cover
$40 at Amazon
$40 at Walmart
Aly Lopez/CNET
AirComfy Ease Inflatable Travel Pillow
Best affordable travel pillow
$20 at Amazon
The AirComfy Ease Inflatable travel pillow is small but mighty. It's even smaller in its carrying bag, complete with a convenient carabiner to clip onto your luggage. It has a unique bowtie shape with an elastic band that allows you to attach it to the headrest on your seat to keep it in place. You can also place it behind your back if you need lumbar support.At $24, this is one of the most affordable travel pillows we've seen with this level of quality and functionality. The size isn't adjustable, but you can alter the firmness by adding more or less air as you blow it up, which only takes a few breaths to fill up completely. JD and I were surprised by how lightweight yet durable it felt, and we agreed that it seemed like it would hold up for many trips.It's worth noting that you may be limited in where you can use it. For example, if you're in the middle seat on a flight, you'd only be able to put it behind you with your head upright (you wouldn't be able to rest your head to the side). The soft velvet pillowcase is removable and machine-washable, which is a nice touch.Pros:Budget-friendlyStays in place on the headrestCan also be used for lumbar supportCons:Won't hold your neck perfectly in placeReturn policy: 30 daysWarranty: N/AWashability: Machine-washable pillowcase
$20 at Amazon
Aly Lopez/CNET
Trtl Travel Pillow
Best adjustable travel pillow
$60 at Amazon
The Trtl Travel Pillow is lightweight and thin, folding up small and packing nicely into the accompanying waterproof bag. It has a unique ergonomic design that differs from the other brands we tested. This is not your typical U-shaped travel pillow. The Trtl has an internal support piece that you place against your neck and jaw on one side, wrap the soft, hypoallergenic fabric like a scarf and secure it with the Velcro piece. The Velcro is impressively sticky, which we look for to ensure that the product will be long-lasting.It's also machine washable and fast-drying; all you have to do is remove the plastic insert first. While initially testing the Trtl pillow during a long car ride, it took me a minute to figure out how to wrap it comfortably, but I eventually forgot I was wearing it because I found it comfortable. My head felt supported without the claustrophobic feeling I've experienced with bulkier travel pillows.While JD and I are very different heights, we both found the pillow adjustable enough to fit comfortably around our necks. Trtl also offers the Trtl Pillow Plus, which is height-adjustable with a twist toggle and designed specifically for various heights, from petite to tall. The brand also has a cooling travel pillow with more breathable and thermoregulating materials for those who run hot. Retailing for $60, the Trtl Travel Pillows are more expensive, but we think it could be worth it.Pros:Super soft and lightweightPacks small; easy to travel withAdjustable supportCons:Have to take it off and move it around to switch sidesGets a little warm after a whileDoes not provide full 360 supportReturn policy: 100-day trial periodWarranty: N/AWashability: Machine-washable fabric
$60 at Amazon
Aly Lopez/CNET
Hest Pro Travel Pillow
Best multipurpose travel pillow
$89 at Hest
The Hest Pro Travel Pillow is versatile and multifunctional -- I've used it while taking a catnap at the airport, sleeping on the plane and camping outside. It comes zipped in a protective carrying case, and the first time I opened it, I was flabbergasted by how large the unfolded pillow was. It's cushioning enough for getting shuteye at the airport during a layover or delay, and I found it comfortable and cozy while camping. Fully stuffed, it's a little too large for my liking when wrapped and clipped around my neck (especially while wearing over-ear headphones); instead, I like to use the extended mode as a body pillow on the plane while lying against the window (which you won't be able to do if you're in the middle or aisle seat -- unless you can rest it on a friendly neighbor). This pillow has a soft yet supportive feel thanks to its shredded memory foam and polyester blend. You can adjust the thickness by unzipping and removing some of the filling -- which I would do if I were using it solely in the neck pillow mode.My least favorite part of camping is shoving the tent and sleeping bags back into their super small stuff sacks, so I was not looking forward to putting the Hest Travel Pillow away at first. However, I was pleasantly surprised (and relieved) to find that it's super easy to squish back into its travel case.Pros:Versatile with three different “modes”Fits in a compact carrying caseInside filling is adjustableSoft and cushioning feelCons:On the expensive sideDoesn’t come with a clip or carabiner for attachingReturn policy: 100 daysWarranty: 365-night standard warrantyWashability: Machine washable cover
$89 at Hest
Aly Lopez/CNET
Bcozzy Neck Pillow
Best everyday travel pillow
$45 at Amazon
Bcozzy is a highly adjustable travel pillow with a flat back that doesn't push your head or neck forward like other thicker pillows might. It can be worn multiple ways, and we found it comfortable in any sleeping position. When wrapped around like a traditional travel pillow, it provides double support for the chin, keeping your neck aligned and preventing your head from falling forward. If you want to rest your head to the side, you can fold this moldable pillow in half and place it on your shoulder. Fellow CNET sleep expert Owen Poole even uses this pillow while working at this desk throughout the day.Bcozzy offers multiple sizes and super soft and cozy options for kids. JD found the XL worked well for him, and Large fits me better. It easily smushes into the accompanying carrying pouch, making it easy to travel with and keep clean. To top it off, the Bcozzy neck pillow is completely machine-washable without taking the cover off. The brand recommends putting it inside a pillowcase, washing it in a cold, gentle cycle and air drying.Pros:Versatile and adaptableEntire pillow is machine washableSuper soft fabricVarious sizes and kids optionsCons:On the expensive sideVelcro is not very stickyReturn policy: 30 daysWarranty: N/AWashability: Machine washable
$45 at Amazon
Aly Lopez/CNET
Travelrest: All-In-One Ultimate Travel Pillow
Best inflatable travel pillow
$40 at Travelrest
The All-In-One Ultimate Travel Pillow by Travelrest was the best inflatable travel pillow we tested. Inflatable pillows have innate travel advantages, such as deflating and packing up super small. They're also great for adjusting the firmness by controlling how much air you put into them.The Travelrest All-In-One pillow has memory foam inserts, giving it an extra oomph of comfort and support. Since it goes around your body like a sling or messenger bag and rests on a shoulder, you don't even need a seatback to use it. You can comfortably rest your head while sitting in the middle or aisle seats of an airplane without having anything to lean against.One downside is having to blow it up on the plane while sitting in tight quarters with strangers and moving it around to the opposite shoulder if you want to rest your head the other way. On the plus side, it takes little effort to inflate -- we found that approximately three or four easy puffs will do the trick. Its luxury velour cover is soft and comfortable, removable and machine washable. For $40, we think this is a great value. Travelrest has a similar version without the velvet cover for $10 less.Pros:Deflates and packs small Soft, velvety coverAllows you to rest your head to the sideCons:You have to blow it up manuallyTake out memory foam inserts to wash itReturn policy: 30 daysWarranty: One-year limited warrantyWashability: Machine-washable cover
$40 at Travelrest
Aly Lopez/CNET
Ostrichpillow Original Napping Pillow
Best unique travel pillow
$99 at Ostrich Pillow
$99 at Amazon
Ostrichpillow's Original Napping Pillow quickly became JD's favorite. This unique pillow may make you look like an alien or a weird bug, but don't fret -- the sleep you get while wearing it is worth any strange looks you might receive in public. Unlike the other travel pillows we tested, this fully encapsulating pillow blocks light and noise, creating a cozy cocoon for your whole head.This pillow can be used to catch some Zzzs anytime and anywhere, not just while traveling. The materials are incredibly soft, and the inside has extra microbead filling -- it's truly the ideal environment for taking a nap. We did notice that it becomes a little warm after a while, so if you're a naturally hot sleeper, this may not be the best pick for you.Because of its bulkier design, it's not as easily portable as other travel pillows. It's also one-size-fits-all, so it's not adjustable, but with the added hand and armholes at the top, you can comfortably wear this pillow while lying or sitting against any surface, from the airplane seat to napping on the airport floor. Some users even wear the Original Napping Pillow in bed at night to help them fall asleep faster.Ostrichpillow offers various pillows and travel products, from the regular Go Neck Pillow (check it out in our honorable mentions below) to the Mini Handy Pillow to eye masks. It also offers a 100-day return period and a two-year warranty, some of the best company policies we've seen for travel pillows.Pros:Encompassing coziness for sleepingGreat return and warranty policiesCons:Does not pack smallGets a little warm after a whileExpensiveReturn policy: 100 daysWarranty: Two-year warrantyWashability: Spot clean and air dry
$99 at Ostrich Pillow
$99 at Amazon
Dillon Lopez/CNET
Pluto Pod 2.0
Best premium travel pillow
$145 at Pluto
No travel pillow says "I need space" like the Pluto Pod 2.0. You'll look like an astronaut, and it's worth it for the enhanced travel experience. Immediately, JD and I could tell it's made with high-quality and durable materials, yet it still feels lightweight. After wearing it for a while, we were impressed by how breathable it is, even with the hood and eyemask fully drawn. You can block out the world entirely without feeling constricted or claustrophobic, which makes it especially ideal for long flights and trips. It's like being inside a mini sensory deprivation tank, making sleeping easier while traveling. The hood is large and spacious enough to wear with over-the-ear headphones. The neck pillow's design was initially inspired by a neck brace, which Pluto dialed back to make it feel supportive and cushioning. The velcro strap around the neck pillow has a strong stick and makes the pillow comfortably adjustable. Pluto thought of everything with the Pod 2.0, and it's obviously been constructed based on feedback from frequent flyers, flight attendants and sleep experts. It rolls up like a burrito and packs small. The outer surfaces are machine washable; all you have to do is remove the foam inside first. If you're concerned about people staring at you while wearing this travel pillow, don't be -- they're probably just jealous.Pros:VersatileCrafted with durable and breathable materialsCompletely blocks out the world Great company policies Cons:ExpensiveReturn policy: 125 daysWarranty: One-year warrantyWashability: Machine-washable cover
$145 at Pluto
Aly Lopez/CNET
Cabeau Evolution Kids
Best travel pillow for kids
$30 at Cabeau
The Evolution Kids Neck Pillow from Cabeau is a cute and functional travel companion for kids. Whether your family is going on a short car ride or taking a long flight, this pillow can help your child feel cozy and comfortable while keeping their head and neck from bobbing or jostling around. The super-soft cover is made of RPET fabric, an eco-friendly recycled material that won't irritate sensitive skin. We loved Cabeau's fun animal designs and color options, and reading the reviews reveals that children love them, too. These pillows are recommended for children ages 3 and up. Pros:Multiple designs and color choicesSupportive yet breathable Soft fabric won't irritate skinBudget-friendlyCons:Comes in only one sizeReturn policy: 30 daysWarranty: One-year limited warrantyWashability: Machine washable
$30 at Cabeau
Using the Hest Pro Travel Pillow to take a quick catnap at the airport. Aly Lopez/CNETHonorable mentionsThe market is inundated with travel pillows of all shapes, sizes, functionalities and pricing, making it difficult to narrow down your options. We were strict with our testing and reviewing process to bring you a versatile list of the top travel pillows you can buy online. We want to shout out a handful of other travel pillows that impressed us while testing and deserve an honorable mention. Ostrichpillow Go Neck pillowIf you're looking for another memory foam travel pillow option, check out the Ostrichpillow Go Neck pillow. JD has used this pillow on many trips, and its shape and density have held well over time. The dense memory foam molds to your chin and neck, and there's a velcro strap for adjusting and holding the pillow in place. It's surprisingly lightweight and compacts easily into the small carrying pouch.Ostrichpillow Go Neck pillow
$69 at Ostrich Pillow
Cabeau TNE S3 Neck PillowThe Cabeau TNE S3 Neck Pillow has contouring memory foam and raised sides that fully support your neck, keeping your mouth closed and preventing your head from bobbing forward. If you're looking for a travel pillow that will keep your head and jaw feeling secure and locked in place, this is the one for you. It also comes in a variety of fun and bright colors. Cabeau TNE S3
$50 at Cabeau
Dot&Dot Twist Memory FoamThe Twist Memory Foam pillow by Dot&Dot has a unique, twistable design that allows you to shape it to support any position for getting some sleep while traveling. The soft cotton cover is machine washable. JD and I both mentioned that we wished it was a little longer to make it even more versatile. For $20, it's a great value. Dot&Dot Twist Memory Foam
$20 at Amazon
Travel pillow FAQs
Why should I use a travel pillow?
A travel pillow can provide support and comfort for your head and neck, which is important for long car rides or flights to prevent straining, stiffness and soreness. Using a travel pillow to help you sleep comfortably can lessen the effects of jet lag and ultimately help you arrive at your destination in better shape.
How much should I spend on a travel pillow?
A quality travel pillow typically costs between $30 and $60, depending on the brand, materials and additional features such as adjustable straps or washability. If you travel frequently or have a big trip coming up, investing in a quality travel pillow can be worth it. There are plenty of great affordable travel pillows priced around $15-$20 and more premium options costing up to $150-$200. Ultimately, it comes down to your budget and the features you're looking for.
Are travel pillows machine washable?
Many travel pillows have removable, machine-washable covers, as brands recognize the importance of keeping your pillow fresh and clean for trips. Always check the company's care instructions before throwing your travel pillow in the washer or dryer (especially since most travel pillow covers require washing in cold water and air drying).
Is memory foam good for a travel pillow?
Travel neck pillows are crafted to deliver superior comfort and support, reducing neck strain and enhancing sleep during extended trips. Look for one with approximately 5 inches of memory foam around the entire pillow for ideal support.
What's better? Microbeads or memory foam?
Memory foam pillows tend to last longer and be more durable, while microbead pillows might need replacement sooner.  Have an upcoming trip? Learn about the best headphones for traveling, tips for avoiding jet lag and how to travel like an Olympian.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.