Star Wars: Tales from the Nightlands reveals a canon-shaking demon domain
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Star Wars
Death is not the end in Star Wars
Star Wars just revealed a terrifying demon domain that redefines franchise canon
By
Aimee Hart
Published Sep 15, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
The 10 biggest problems with Wednesday season 2
Sep 14, 2025
The smartest sci-fi movie of the '90s is streaming now on Paramount Plus
Sep 15, 2025
Star Trek: Strange New Worlds lost its way in season 3
Sep 13, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Dark Horse Comics / Francesco Francavilla
Halloween season is just around the corner, and Star Wars is already breaking out the horror with its latest comic, Star Wars: Tales from the Nightlands, from writer Cavan Scott and illustrated by Soo Lee, Vincenzo Riccardi, and Robert Hack. Its first issue just did something special: introducing a demon realm to the world of Star Wars and I, for one, am here for it. It isn’t the first time that demons (the mention of them anyway) or the occult have been a part of Star Wars. Mysticism plays a significant role in Jedi culture, and who can forget that time the Nightsisters of Dathomir, a clan of magick-wielders, brought their dead back to life to fight for them? Star Wars has always been a franchise that embraces fantasy, so it was only a matter of time before we ventured into the horror aspects of that galaxy once more. In Tales from the Nightlands, a three-issue miniseries, we’re introduced to The Nightlands, a spectral realm where the spirits of the people from the Twi’lek planet Ryloth continue to exist after death. Every 30 years, the veil between the living and the dead becomes thin, and, according to legend, people can communicate with their lost loved ones. In the first issue, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker visit the planet to learn that Daesha, the princess of the Ryloth people, is planning to perform a ritual to speak with her dead grandfather — despite everyone else warning her not to. Anakin, being a young boy and secretly harboring his own desire to speak with the deceased Qui-Gon Jinn, is all for this and helps Daesha sneak out of the ceremony to perform the ritual. It brings forth the Nightlander, a boogeyman whose greatest wish is to possess a living host.
Image: Dark Horse Comics
When questioned about who and what they are, the souls of the dead speak out to warn Anakin, Obi-Wan, and Daesha that the Nightlands isn’t a realm of the dead for those who have passed away – it’s a domain of demons, and the Nightlander is the queen that rules there. She feeds off the hope of the living who have heard about the Nightlands and the myth of speaking to the dead. Again, this isn’t the first time demons have been mentioned in a galaxy far, far, away. But this is the first time we’ve actually seen physical proof that a domain of demons exists in canon, and the first issue of Tales from the Nightlands does a decent job in conveying how terrifying that concept is. The Nightlander starts in the form of Daesha’s grandfather, but eventually morphs into its original form as a white-eyed Twi’lek with claws and fangs. It also transforms into Qui-Gon Jinn at one point, taunting Anakin that he only helped Daesha to satisfy himself. It’s a haunting accusation, and one that hurts Anakin even more because there’s truth in it. My only real critique of Tales from the Nightlands is that there isn’t much to explore in terms of the actual lore behind the concept of a demon domain in Star Wars. We know it isn’t just Force-Sensitives who live on in the Force after death, but what makes a demon in the first place, and what effect does this have on the Force? How does one even become a demon? This comic only hints at possible answers to these questions, but doesn’t promise to answer any of them. Then again, I’m already invested in the concept of a Star Wars “boogeyman,” so hopefully the next two issues can provide the details I need. With the Nightlander only appearing once every three decades, the next issue follows Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa. Considering the amount of skeletons those two have in their closets — and the fact that the Nightlander has already spoken to Anakin Skywalker — I don’t doubt for a second that writer Cavan Scott will combine intergalactic family drama with the horrors once more. I just hope we'll get to see more about what makes this demon domain so special, and whether it's exclusive to Ryloth or not.
Star Wars
Comics
Impressions
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 13, 2025
Mark Hamill's best recent movie has nothing to do with Stephen King
Sep 13, 2025
What's actually real in the ending of The Long Walk?
Sep 15, 2025
Polygon is bringing consoles to kids in hospitals — and you can help
Sep 15, 2025
Dear RPG devs, please let me back into your character creator
More from our brands
Star Wars Movies And Shows In Chronological Order
Why Did Obi-Wan Kenobi Let Darth Vader Kill Him in Star Wars?
One World Under Doom, Explained
Everything We Know About Star Wars: Skeleton Crew's Hidden Planets
Star Wars Finally Reveals An Aspect Of The Force George Lucas Began Setting Up 42 Years Ago
Best Manhwa With Necromancer Protagonists
All Joinable Guilds in Tainted Grail: The Fall Of Avalon
Most Popular
What Michael Rooker's multiple DCU roles in the DCU mean for the canon
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
Your favorite Dropout comedians return in Make Some Noise season 4 next month
Amid Jimmy Kimmel backlash, Disney’s Star Wars trailer looks like a Jedi mind trick
I really need Dan Da Dan season 3 to not start with graphic violence
This shocking Peacemaker theory reveals a devastating twist in the works
See More
Trending Now
The Mandalorian and Grogu are back in first trailer for their Star Wars movie
1:18
I went to Borderlands 4's... New York Fashion Week runway show?
0:19
Fan-casting the best Ganondorf for the live-action Zelda movie
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.