Microsoft Sentinel—AI-Powered Cloud SIEM | Microsoft Security
This is the Trace Id: e7db2de8802c16b288d0497d0949d1dc
Skip to main content
Microsoft
Microsoft Security
Microsoft Security
Microsoft Security
Home
Why Microsoft Security
Solutions
AI-powered cybersecurity
Cloud security
Data security & governance
Identity & network access
Privacy & risk management
Security for AI
Unified SecOps
Zero Trust
Products
Product families
Product families
Microsoft Defender
Microsoft Entra
Microsoft Intune
Microsoft Priva
Microsoft Purview
Microsoft Sentinel
Security AI
Security AI
Microsoft Security Copilot
Identity & access
Identity & access
Microsoft Entra ID (Azure Active Directory)
Microsoft Entra External ID
Microsoft Entra ID Governance
Microsoft Entra ID Protection
Microsoft Entra Internet Access
Microsoft Entra Private Access
Microsoft Entra Permissions Management
Microsoft Entra Verified ID
Microsoft Entra Workload ID
Microsoft Entra Domain Services
Azure Key Vault
SIEM & XDR
SIEM & XDR
Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Microsoft Defender XDR
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Microsoft Defender for Office 365
Microsoft Defender for Identity
Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps
Microsoft Security Exposure Management
Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management
Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence
Cloud security
Cloud security
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Microsoft Defender Cloud Security Posture Mgmt
Microsoft Defender External Attack Surface Management
Azure Firewall
Azure Web App Firewall
Azure DDoS Protection
GitHub Advanced Security
Endpoint security & management
Endpoint security & management
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Microsoft Defender XDR
Microsoft Defender for Business
Microsoft Intune core capabilities
Microsoft Defender for IoT
Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management
Microsoft Intune Advanced Analytics
Microsoft Intune Endpoint Privilege Management​
Microsoft Intune Enterprise Application Management
Microsoft Intune Remote Help
Microsoft Cloud PKI
Compliance & privacy
Compliance & privacy
Microsoft Purview Communication Compliance
Microsoft Purview Compliance Manager
Microsoft Purview Data Lifecycle Management
Microsoft Purview eDiscovery
Microsoft Purview Audit
Microsoft Priva Risk Management
Microsoft Priva Subject Rights Requests
Data security & governance
Data security & governance
Microsoft Purview Information Protection
Microsoft Purview Insider Risk Management
Microsoft Purview Data Loss Prevention
Microsoft Purview Data Governance
Services
Microsoft Defender Experts for XDR
Microsoft Defender Experts for Hunting
Microsoft Incident Response
Partners
Resources
Get started
Get started
Cybersecurity awareness
Customer stories
Security 101
Product trials
How we protect Microsoft
Reports and analysis
Reports and analysis
Industry recognition
Microsoft Security Insider
Microsoft Digital Defense Report
Security Response Center
Community
Community
Microsoft Security Blog
Microsoft Security Events
Microsoft Tech Community
Documentation and training
Documentation and training
Documentation
Technical Content Library
Training & certifications
Additional sites
Additional sites
Compliance Program for Microsoft Cloud
Microsoft Trust Center
Security Engineering Portal
Service Trust Portal
Microsoft Secure Future Initiative
Business Solutions Hub
Contact Sales
Start free trial
More
All Microsoft
Global
Microsoft Security
Azure
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Teams
Windows 365
Tech & innovation
Tech & innovation
Microsoft Cloud
AI
Azure Space
Mixed reality
Microsoft HoloLens
Microsoft Viva
Quantum computing
Sustainability
Industries
Industries
Education
Automotive
Financial services
Government
Healthcare
Manufacturing
Retail
All industries
Partners
Partners
Find a partner
Become a partner
Partner Network
Azure Marketplace
AppSource
Resources
Resources
Blog
Microsoft Advertising
Developer Center
Documentation
Events
Licensing
Microsoft Learn
Microsoft Research
View Sitemap
Search
Search Microsoft Security
No results
Cancel
A trusted SIEM
Microsoft Sentinel
Secure your multicloud, multiplatform environment with an innovative security information and event management (SIEM) powered by a modern, cost-effective data lake.
Start a free trial
Contact Sales
Microsoft Sentinel
Overview
Overview
Capabilities
SIEM comparison
Pricing
Industry recognition
Customer stories
Resources
FAQ
Contact Sales
Contact Sales
Announcement
Spend less. Secure more.
Enhance security while reducing costs by storing all your data in a unified data lake.
Read the blog
Get started today
Back to carousel navigation controls
Overview
Adopt a next-level SIEM
Gain comprehensive protection with built-in security operations (SecOps) capabilities
Empower analysts with cloud-native security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR), user entity and behavior analytics (UEBA), threat intelligence (TI), and advanced analytics to enable more effective actions through the unified experience in Microsoft Defender.
Harness AI to help stop cyberattackers with native generative AI and agents
Stay ahead of emergent cyberthreats using industry-leading generative AI and autonomous agents to triage, investigate, and respond faster, accelerating mean time to resolve (MTTR) and improving analyst productivity.
Optimize costs and security coverage with a modern data lake
Improve economics and scale with simplified data onboarding, dynamic recommendations, robust out-of-the-box solutions, and a centralized data lake, enabling enterprise-wide visibility.
Benefits
Drive security outcomes with an innovative SIEM
Get faster and more effective detection, response, and mitigation of cyberthreats with the robust protection and cost-efficient security operations of Microsoft Sentinel.
Read the study
44% lower costs compared to legacy SIEMs1
79% reduction in false positives1
35% reduction in the likelihood of breaches1
Capabilities
Explore Microsoft Sentinel’s innovative capabilities
Industry-leading SIEM
Redefine your security operations center (SOC) with a modern, cloud-native SIEM that unifies AI, SOAR, UEBA, TI.
Learn more
Cost-effective data lake
Unify and centralize security data with scalable, cost-efficient storage to enable advanced analytics, AI, and cyberthreat detection without compromising performance or budget.
Learn more
Native XDR integration
Empower SOC leaders with native extended detection and response (XDR) integration, delivering unified visibility and control across SIEM and XDR to accelerate cyberthreat detection, streamline investigation, and drive operational efficiency at scale.
Learn more
Enterprise-wide visibility
Gain comprehensive visibility across multicloud and multiplatform environments through more than 350 native connectors and no-code custom integrations.
Learn more
Dynamic, tailored recommendations
Streamline your security operations and reduce costs with AI-driven SOC optimization—automating best practices, accelerating cyberthreat response, and helping your team focus on what matters most.
Learn more
Generative AI-powered assistant for daily operations in security
Accelerate incident investigation and response with generative AI that understands your security data. Security Copilot summarizes incidents, generates Kusto Query Language (KQL) queries, and recommends next steps—reducing MTTR and boosting analyst productivity.
Learn more
Cyberthreat intelligence enhanced by third-party feeds
Deliver actionable threat intelligence by unifying Microsoft’s rich repository of threat signals—empowering your SOC to detect, investigate, and respond to cyberthreats faster using enriched context, STIX/TAXII support, and AI-driven insights.
Learn more
Product architecture
Sentinel data lake architecture
Optimize for the evolution of Microsoft Sentinel by leveraging a data lake architecture that builds on the cloud flexibility needed to ingest, retain, and gain security insights from any data while keeping costs down.
The integrated SOC
Unified security operations
Anticipate and stop cyberattacks with an AI-driven defense that unifies prevention, detection, and response, all in Microsoft Defender.
Learn more
SIEM comparison
Why more security leaders are choosing Microsoft Sentinel
Security leaders report that legacy SIEMs and niche solutions are falling short. Modernize your SOC with AI-powered innovations from Microsoft Sentinel, a trusted SIEM.
Limitations with traditional and niche SIEM
Get a complete SIEM with Microsoft Sentinel
Critical capabilities
Solution complexity and feature gaps   Tools work in silos Gaps in features Regular, time-intensive updates Inefficient analyst experience High training and specialization requirements
“Splunk is cumbersome and has a huge learning curve. It requires a lot of training to get there.”  CISO, Infrastructure
Unified SOC experience with critical built-in capabilities
Deliver a smoother SecOps experience with native XDR integrations—no additional add-ons or specialized experts required. Built-in AI-powered detection and response  Built-in SOAR, UEBA, and TI Built-in Case Management
“Going with Microsoft Sentinel was a no-brainer to adopt a more holistic approach … rather than continue with that patchwork from different vendors.” CIO, Retail
Cyberthreat protection
High alert volume and labor-intensive investigations   Limited detection engineering Lack of automation False positive and alert fatigue Slow mean time to detect (MTTD)/mean time to resolution (MTTR) Low visibility Protracted incidents Lengthy investigations
“Splunk is slower to adopt in terms of adding in features, event queries, event correlation, and understanding how to make sense of all of that data.” Security Leader, Healthcare
AI-powered, high-fidelity threat detection and investigation
Find cyberthreats in the environment with enhanced AI-powered detection, correlation, and investigation capabilities—significantly reducing false positives and MTTR.
Development tools for custom detections Proactive threat hunting with rules enhanced by machine learning (ML) Integrated Security Copilot for AI assistance Robust threat intelligence and alert enrichment Advanced visualization and investigation AI-guided investigation and response
“By ingesting logs and alerts from our security solutions into Microsoft Sentinel, we can correlate threat analysis from multiple sources. This automation saves valuable time to resolve incidents.”  Security Director, Telecommunications and media
Return on investment (ROI)/total cost of ownership (TCO)
Expensive, hard-to-scale platform operations   Unpredictable consumption costs Additional modules required On-premises infrastructure or cloud-hosted, but not cloud-native Labor intensive operations
“Splunk ingestion costs are always top of mind because they get very expensive very quickly.”
CISO, Manufacturing
Flexible, cloud-native architecture with lower TCO
Get predictable, cost-efficient security to help reduce TCO. Cloud-native scalability Maximum flexibility Efficient data management Simplified operations with tailored, in-product recommendations
“The idea of a cloud-native SIEM like Microsoft Sentinel was attractive ... it offers us flexibility and the cost-effective product we need for our solution portfolio.” Information Security Engineer, Financial services
Time to value
Complex implementation with slow time to value   Insufficient migration support Limited interoperability with ecosystem Time-consuming custom integration and deployment Lack of pre-built templates, rules, and playbooks
“If you don't have all [Palo Alto] tools, it’s difficult to get other platforms integrated.”
Director of IT Operations, Manufacturing
Rapid onboarding with pre-built solutions
Protect across clouds, platforms, and tools by using robust migration tools, an extensive content catalog, configuration recommendations, and pre-built, curated cyberthreat detection rules. Supports more than 350 ready-to-use connectors Codeless connector framework to build and deploy no-code custom connectors Low-friction interoperability across clouds, tools, and platforms Extensive library of 480+ customizable security solutions
“Microsoft Sentinel provides wide data source integration. It can collect data from Microsoft Cloud, AWS, Google Cloud, on-prem infrastructure, and third-party security tools.” Security leader, Technology
Security innovation
Insufficient roadmap vision and execution   Constrained research and development Inadequate AI expertise and functionality Underdeveloped features Limited TI and security research professionals
“One of the challenges with Splunk is the lack of vision on their roadmap since the acquisition.”  Security Leader, Banking
Visionary roadmap with AI and machine learning
Stay ahead of emergent cyberthreats through product development that’s focused on rapidly delivering breakthrough advances for the SOC. Microsoft prioritizes security above all else—backed by long-term investments and 10,000+ world-class security experts and engineers.   Industry leadership including generative AI, SIEM, XDR, cloud security, and unified SecOps experience Deep integration of generative AI, ML, and automation across security capabilities Unparalleled threat intelligence Global expertise at scale
“We make use of new innovations to mitigate emergent threats as early as possible. We strongly rely on Microsoft and its security technology roadmap to help defend our company in that way, as it can develop solutions faster than we could alone.”  Director, IT Monitoring and Security Operations Center, Manufacturing
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Deployment guide
Migrate from Splunk to Microsoft Sentinel faster and more easily
Get migration guidance
Pricing
Explore plans and pricing
Microsoft Sentinel
Explore pricing
Get the cost-efficiency of a cloud-native SIEM and modern data lake with flexible, predictable pricing to meet your evolving cybersecurity needs.
Microsoft Sentinel pricing is designed to optimize security coverage and costs, with flexible options based on the volume of data ingested into the analytics tier and data lake tier.
Related products
Discover more offerings from Microsoft Security
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Microsoft Defender XDR
Automatically disrupt cyberattacks and accelerate response with XDR.
Learn more
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Protect multicloud and hybrid environments with end-to-end security across the full application lifecycle.
Learn more
Back to carousel navigation controls
Industry recognition
Microsoft is recognized as a Leader in SIEM platforms
Forrester Wave™ for Security Analytics Platforms
Microsoft is named a Leader in The Forrester Wave™: Security Analytics Platforms, Q2 2025 report.2
Read the report
Public sector
Microsoft’s unified security operations for public sectors
Microsoft is helping public sector entities transform the SOC and safeguard digital ecosystems with a leading AI-powered solution, unparalleled threat intelligence, and expert guidance.
Read the blog
Download the infographic
Customer stories
Trusted by organizations of all sizes and industries
Featured
Public Sector
Previous
Next
Previous Slide
Next Slide
”Setting up Microsoft Sentinel to ingest logs from 20 applications and thousands of devices was a very simple thing.”
Chunqui Chen, Director, IT Monitoring and Security Operations Center, Danfoss
50%–60%
Reduced time on false positives and repetitive tasks
Read the story
“We believe we have established the roots for greater effectiveness... With AI-enabled security tools, we’re facing the future with greater confidence.”
Matteo Feraboli, Group Sr. Director, Cyber Security & Anti-Fraud, Intesa Sanpaolo
Read the story
“By ingesting logs and alerts from our security solutions into Microsoft Sentinel, we can correlate threat analysis … [It] saves valuable time to resolve incidents.”
Masaki Onishi, Director, Security Operations Division, NTT Communications
Read the story
“After 20 years with QNET, I had reserved judgement as a CIO until I could see the value of the Microsoft Security solution. Now, I’m a believer.”
Ivan Woo, Chief Information Officer, QNET
Read the story
“The idea of a cloud-native SIEM like Microsoft Sentinel was attractive... It offers us flexibility and the cost-effective product we need for our solution portfolio.”
Alvin Christian, Information Security Engineer, PT. ALTO Network
Read the story
Back to carousel navigation controls
Previous Slide
Next Slide
“We worked with Microsoft to recover from a sophisticated, targeted cyberattack in only three days. Our crisis became an opportunity to make our digital infrastructure stronger.”
Linda Karcanaj, Director General, Albanian National Agency for Information Society (AKSHI)
1,118
E-services brought back within three days of a cyberattack
Read the story
“It’s not just the Microsoft estate that’s in there—it’s all the other applications and infrastructure we use ... We have a single pane of glass so we can monitor, detect and respond.”
Steven Fry, Chief Digital Officer, Salford City Council
Read the story
Back to carousel navigation controls
Back to tabs
RESOURCES
Explore more resources
Get key insights on SIEM solutions, Microsoft Sentinel innovations, and other resources.
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Blog
Onboard the Sentinel data lake
Explore ways to get started with the data lake, understand technical prerequisites, and onboard today.
Read the blog
Infographic
Modernize SecOps with Microsoft Sentinel
Learn how to take a staged deployment approach to modernizing your SOC with this guide for security leaders.
Get the guide
Report
Explore the roadmap to modernizing security operations
A comprehensive guide on how a modern SIEM solution can help organizations accelerate their SOC maturity and meet their evolving needs.
Get the report
Guide
Get the definitive SIEM buyer’s guide
Discover five essential SIEM capabilities to help you build a more proactive SOC.
Get the guide
Blog
Experience SIEM results and innovation year after year
Learn why more CISO leaders trust Microsoft Sentinel to modernize their SOC.
Read the blog
Documentation
Get started using Microsoft Sentinel
Explore resources, best practices, and use cases to learn how to achieve more with Microsoft Sentinel.
Learn more
Adoption guide
Modernize your security operations with Microsoft Sentinel
Experience quick return on investment with Microsoft Sentinel built-in capabilities.
Read the guide
Blog
Learn about the latest Microsoft Sentinel innovations
Discover the latest features designed to protect your enterprise against advanced cyberthreats.
Explore the tech community
Article
Quickly set up a codeless connector for Microsoft Sentinel
Learn how to use the codeless connector framework (CCF) to create a custom connector and connect a data source to Microsoft Sentinel.
Read the article
Research
Review evidence of generative AI and SOC productivity advances in live operations
Learn how Security Copilot reduces MTTR for security incidents by 30 percent.
Read the research
Back to Resources - Getting started tab section
FAQ
Frequently asked questions
Expand all
Collapse all
01/
What is Microsoft Sentinel?
Microsoft Sentinel is a modern, cloud-native SIEM that unifies AI, SOAR, UEBA, TI, and a data lake that maximizes ROI. Integrated into Microsoft Defender’s SecOps experience, Microsoft Sentinel empowers analysts to anticipate and stop cyberattacks across clouds and platforms—faster and with greater precision.
02/
Is Microsoft Sentinel the same as Azure Sentinel?
Azure Sentinel was renamed Microsoft Sentinel to reflect the breadth of the product's capabilities and provide protection across multiple cloud solutions.
03/
Is Microsoft Sentinel a SIEM or SOAR solution?
Microsoft Sentinel is a powerful SIEM solution with built-in SOAR capabilities.
04/
What’s the difference between Microsoft Defender XDR and Microsoft Sentinel?
Microsoft Defender XDR is a suite of tools that unifies prevention, detection, and response across endpoints, identities, email, and applications to deliver a consolidated view of threats, adaptive protection against cyberattacks, and streamlined incident response and remediation.
Microsoft Sentinel delivers extended visibility and foundational SecOps tools with built-in SIEM, SOAR, UEBA, and TI to detect, investigate, and respond to cyberthreats efficiently across the entire digital estate.
Both Microsoft Defender XDR and Microsoft Sentinel are fully integrated in the Microsoft Defender portal, delivering unparalleled native detection and automated response with extended visibility, flexibility, and scalability.
05/
What is the Microsoft Sentinel data lake?
The Microsoft Sentinel data lake is designed to help optimize costs, simplify data management, and accelerate the adoption of AI in SecOps. Built into our industry-leading SIEM, this unified data lake has a cloud-native architecture. It is purpose-built for security—organizing diverse data types across assets, identities, activities, TI, and content for greater visibility and contextual awareness. Learn more.
.
06/
Is Microsoft Sentinel primarily built to protect the Microsoft ecosystem?
No, Microsoft Sentinel is designed to ingest and analyze security data from a wide variety of sources across the multicloud, multiplatform environment. Microsoft Sentinel integrates with more than 350 different solutions through connectors supported by Microsoft and third-party partners.
Get started
Protect everything
Make your future more secure. Explore your security options today.
Contact Sales
Start a free Azure trial
[1]
The Total Economic Impact™ Of Microsoft Sentinel: Cost Savings And Business Benefits Enabled By Microsoft Sentinel, a commissioned study by Forrester Consulting, March 2024.
To understand benefits, costs, and risks, Forrester interviewed four customers with experience using Microsoft Sentinel. For the purposes of this study, Forrester aggregated the results from these customers into a single composite organization.
[2]
The Forrester Wave™: Security Analytics Platforms Q2 2025, Allie Mellen, Stephanie Balaouras, Katie Vincent, and Michael Belden. June 24, 2025.
Follow Microsoft Security
What's new
Surface Pro
Surface Laptop
Surface Laptop Studio 2
Copilot for organizations
Copilot for personal use
AI in Windows
Explore Microsoft products
Windows 11 apps
Microsoft Store
Account profile
Download Center
Microsoft Store support
Returns
Order tracking
Certified Refurbished
Microsoft Store Promise
Flexible Payments
Education
Microsoft in education
Devices for education
Microsoft Teams for Education
Microsoft 365 Education
How to buy for your school
Educator training and development
Deals for students and parents
AI for education
Business
Microsoft Cloud
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Small Business
Developer & IT
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Azure Marketplace
AppSource
Visual Studio
Company
Careers
About Microsoft
Company news
Privacy at Microsoft
Investors
Diversity and inclusion
Accessibility
Sustainability
English (United States)
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Consumer Health Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Microsoft
Privacy
Manage cookies
Terms of use
Trademarks
Safety & eco
Recycling
About our ads
© Microsoft 2025
Close
Chat with sales
Contact us
(800) 642 7676
Available M-F 6 AM to 6 PM PT.
Support