Forget the iPad: TCL's newest tablet won't break the bank or strain your eyes | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
Forget the iPad: TCL's newest tablet won't break the bank or strain your eyes
The TCL Tab Nxtpaper 5G allows users to switch from full color to e-paper mode in seconds.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 12:53 p.m. PT
TCLFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysTCL just released the new Tab 8 Nxtpaper 5G, available for $200.This is the first compact Android tablet with Nxtpaper technology, making it a great substitute for e-readers.The tablet runs Android 15 and is currently a Verizon exclusive, though it is planned to come to Total Wireless later.My TCL Tab 11 Nxtpaper is one of my favorite devices. It can replace my Kindle and a base model iPad on the go. One of its very few downsides, however, is its size, which makes it much bigger and heavier than my Kindle. The new TCL Tab 8 Nxtpaper 5G is here to change that. This is the first compact Android tablet to feature Nxtpaper tech, which is a proprietary TCL innovation. Nxtpaper lets users switch from its regular full-color mode to Color Ink Paper or Ink Paper mode with the press of a button. Also: The tablet that easily replaced my Kindle and iPad now has a worthy successorThe tablet's Regular Mode displays full color images on a matte, glare-free display. Its Color Ink Paper mode is a good option to read comic books, graphic novels, or simply give your eyes a rest, while the black and white Ink Paper option is best suited to read longer books like you would on your e-reader.The tablet functions like any other in each of its display modes, however, so you can still stream YouTube or browse social media in Ink Paper mode. This lets you enjoy the full scope of an Android tablet with all your favorite apps without having to compromise on the e-reader experience.Also: This 9-inch tablet singlehandedly changed my mind about gaming on AndroidThe new TCL Tab 8 features an 8.7-inch Nxtpaper 4.0 display designed for eye comfort. DC dimming and reduced blue light strive to prevent eye strain. The screen's matte finish also makes it easier to view the tablet in different types of lighting without straining. Running on Android 15, the compact tablet features a 6,000mAh battery, an octa-core processor, 4GB of RAM, and 64GB of internal storage, which can be expanded with a microSD card.Like the TCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5G from last year, the TCL Tab 8 will be sold exclusively at Verizon for $200, though TCL plans to make it available later through Verizon-owned Total Wireless.  Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed
We tested every iPad model. Here are the ones worth your money
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use