UC Berkeley professor warns of 'crackdown' on academic freedom : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
UC Berkeley professor warns of 'crackdown' on academic freedom UC Berkeley told 160 faculty, staff and students that their names were included in files shared with the federal government related to "alleged antisemitic incidents." We hear from one of them.
Special Series Interview highlights
From 'Morning Edition' and 'All Things Considered'
UC Berkeley professor warns of 'unprecedented crackdown' on academic freedom
Updated September 18, 202510:56 AM ET
Originally published September 18, 20255:06 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
By
Leila Fadel
,
Taylor Haney
,
Adam Bearne
UC Berkeley sends 160 names to government for 'alleged antisemitic incidents'
Listen
·
4:33
4:33
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5542204/nx-s1-9456921" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
People walk by Sather Tower on the UC Berkeley campus on March 14, 2022 in Berkeley, California.
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images North America
hide caption
toggle caption
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images North America
The University of California, Berkeley, is facing backlash after disclosing the names of 160 students, faculty, and staff to Trump administration officials as part of a federal investigation into allegations of antisemitism on campus. The university sent the documents over several months and notified those named earlier this month. Among them is Ussama Makdisi, a history professor and leading scholar of modern Arab history. "The idea is obviously, clearly a chilling of speech and a chilling of academic freedom because we have no idea what we have allegedly been accused of. We have no idea how to even go about clearing our name," Makdisi said.
Sponsor Message
Religion
Most
American Jews say Trump is using antisemitism as an 'excuse' to silence free speech at universities
In a statement to NPR, University of California, Berkeley, spokesperson Janet Gilmore confirmed that records of complaints about "alleged incidents of antisemitism and discrimination" were provided to the Office for Civil Rights at the Department of Education. The disclosure comes as the federal government continues its campaign to investigate elite universities, launched after campus protests over Israel's war in Gaza. Critics say the investigations are weaponizing the charge of antisemitism to stifle academic freedoms. On Tuesday, a U.N. commission said it found that Israel has committed genocide in the Gaza Strip, a charge Israel has denied. In an interview with NPR's Leila Fadel, Makdisi discussed academic freedom, censorship and campus climate. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Interview highlights Leila Fadel: How much do you think this has to do with what you teach? You teach history. You touch on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. You've criticized Israeli policies. Ussama Makdisi: I teach Palestinian history, I teach Middle Eastern history, I teach Arab history. And, of course, this has to do with… I mean, what's happening across American institutions and across the United States more generally is a crackdown, an unprecedented crackdown, on academic freedom, on the ability of students to express themselves in support of various very basic and fundamental issues, such as freedom, such as equality, such as justice for Palestinians in particular.
Sponsor Message
Fadel: Campus spokesperson Janet Gilmore for Berkeley told us it wasn't a "list of names" per se. Rather, the Department of Education is investigating how Berkeley handles allegations of antisemitism. The University of California had a legal obligation to cooperate. And it has cooperated over the years and across administrations. It sent documents, and it informed people if their names were in the documents. The university also said "We are committed to transparency and supporting our campus community while complying with federal investigations." What do you think of that statement? Makdisi: I mean, let's see what happens. All I can say is that when you have some sort of information that's been turned over to an administration that has actively persecuted students across this country for the fact that they have expressed themselves. In fact, these students, as far as I'm aware, the cases against them didn't hold up. Fadel: As a historian, does this moment remind you of any other time in history? Makdisi: Yes, it reminds me of the McCarthyist period. It reminds me of the Salem Witch Trials. It reminds me of all sorts of things as a historian. But the difference, of course, is that this is all happening in the context of what is going on in Gaza. There is a genocide taking place in Gaza now. Again, the point of a university, ideally, is that we can come and we can have a discussion. We can debate the history, and points about history, the points about politics, points about policy, and that is exactly what is under threat right now.
Code Switch
The administration's fight against antisemitism is dividing Jews
Fadel: And what happens if there is not a free exchange of ideas on campus, if that changes? Makdisi: I mean, we're going to find out very soon. We are in a crisis moment right now. Fadel: You mentioned genocide. A United Nations Commission of Inquiry just concluded that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza, but it's something Israel still denies. Are you surprised that Berkeley, of all places, with its reputation as this sort of bastion of liberalism and exchange of free ideas, is handling the investigation this way?
Sponsor Message
Makdisi: I think Berkeley administration is under huge pressure. It's quite clear. On the other hand, yes, I am dismayed by what has happened to our students. I'm dismayed by what's happening to the campus climate in terms of being able to speak out about basic issues. We should all be able to teach our subject matters with freedom and without censorship. And, of course, every student should have the right to learn without censorship and with freedom. This article was adapted for the web by Majd Al-Waheidi and edited by Obed Manuel.
UC Berkeley
antisemitism
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor