Best Portable Generators of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Energy & Utilities Generators
Best Portable Generators of 2025
Portable generators allow you to keep your home essentials up and running, even in a crisis. Here are our picks and tips for how to choose the best portable generators for you.
Our Experts
Written by
Molly Price
Article updated on March 26, 2024 at 4:47 AM PDT
Molly Price Former Editor
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Power outages can be annoying, and frustrating, and they can hinder your day-to-day activities. In the worst case scenario, they can also be dangerous -- and they're becoming all too common for many of us. Our Picks
Sportsman GEN400DF
Jump to details
$486 at Walmart
Jump to details
DuroMax XP4850EH
Jump to details
$519 at Amazon
Jump to details
DuroStar DS4400E
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
Briggs & Stratton StormResponder
Jump to details
$949 at Lowe's
Jump to details
Generac GP8000E
Jump to details
$1,650 at Amazon
Jump to details
Duromax XP13000EH
Jump to details
$1,299 at Amazon
Jump to details
Cat RP6500
Jump to details
$1,115 at Arbor
Jump to details
Champion Power Equipment 100110
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 3 more
GENERATORS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Jackery Explorer 300 293Wh Portable Power Station:  $169 (save $259)
Jackery Explorer 1000 v2 1070Wh Portable Power Station:  $449 (save $799)
Anker Solix C1000 1056Wh Portable Power Station:  $499 (save $799)
Bluetti EB3A 268Wh Portable Power Station:  $179 (save $269) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Portable Generators of 2025
Best affordable portable generators
Best midrange portable generators
Best high-end portable generators
Things to consider when buying a portable generator
How we evaluated these generators
Portable generator FAQs
More outdoor recommendations
Whether the power outage is planned or unplanned, going several hours without power can lead to more than just spoiled food and other headaches. It can also lead to uncomfortable and unsafe temperatures and cut off communications, making it difficult to call for help in case of emergencies. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation notes that large chunks of North America are at an elevated risk of blackouts if above-average temperatures create periods of high demand. As climate change increases the likelihood of heatwaves across much of the US, power outages are likely to become more common.
Lowe'sInterested in a generator?Schedule your free virtual or at-home estimate today with Canter Power Systems, a CNET advertising partner.Offering the full suite of Generac's gas-powered generators and rechargeable backup batteries, Canter Power Systems has been providing backup power options for 70 years and is now the largest full-service generator installer in the nation. These products or services have not been evaluated by CNET's editorial staff. If you get an estimate or make a purchase through this link, we may receive a commission.Get EstimateAdditionally, hurricanes are getting stronger and wildfire season is devastating in some areas. To try to reduce the risks that power outages pose to you, you should start thinking about purchasing a portable generator for home use (while also keeping in mind other emergency protocols). Thankfully, plenty of options are on the market that can keep your home powered during outages. These include inverter generators, diesel generators, solar generators, gas generators and dual-fuel generator types.
SportsmanBest affordable portable generators These generators all received high marks from consumers, and none of them will break the bank. If you have a small home or just a few appliances to power, you don't have to spend big to get a good generator with enough running power to keep your appliances running.
Sportsman
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sportsman
Sportsman GEN400DF
The most affordable model on our best portable generator list, the Sportsman GEN400DF has been on sale for just $300. This is a well-priced dual-fuel model that can operate with either a 3.6-gallon fuel tank or a standard propane tank.With up to 10 hours of gasoline-run time on a 50% load and 12 hours of running power using propane, the Sportsman can keep things going while you get a full night's sleep before needing more fuel. This emergency dual fuel generator comes with four 120-volt outlets, one 120-volt RV outlet and one 12-volt DC outlet.With 4,000 starting watts and 3,500 running watts, it isn't the most powerful generator on our list. Still, if you're running small household appliances or just one or two large ones, this portable generator model should get the job done.Note: We've seen recent price spikes that put this generator above the $500 mark. We'll keep an eye on these prices and update accordingly.  ... Show more
Get it now
$486 at Walmart
$400 at Tractor Supply Co.
$421 at The Home Depot
DuroMax
Photo Gallery 1/1
DuroMax
DuroMax XP4850EH
Another solid dual-fuel model, the DuroMax XP4850EH has 4,850 starting watts and 3,850 running watts.This portable generator can run off either the 3.96-gallon fuel tank or a 20-gallon liquid propane tank fuel source. Gasoline run time is about 11.5 hours at 50%, while propane will run 9.8 hours at 50%. There are two 120-volt outlets and one 120/240-volt outlet.   ... Show more
Get it now
$519 at Amazon
DuroStar
Photo Gallery 1/1
DuroStar
DuroStar DS4400E
If you don't need the propane tank option, this DuroStar portable generator runs on a 3.9-gallon gasoline tank. It is a quiet portable generator that also offers a bit more peak power supply than the Sportsman with 4,400 starting watts and 3,500 running watts.Run time on a 50% load is 8 hours, and it is equipped with two 120-volt household outlets and one 120/240-volt outlet. The DuroStar includes its wheels, something often sold separately in kits for generators.  ... Show more
Get it now
$0 at Amazon
Best midrange portable generators
Up your budget, and you can double your wattage with these generators.
Briggs & Stratton
Photo Gallery 1/1
Briggs & Stratton
Briggs & Stratton StormResponder
This Briggs & Stratton model costs $949 and runs on an 8-gallon fuel tank. Of those in our best portable generator mid-price range tier, this portable conventional generator model offers the most wattage for the least money with 8,500 starting watts and 6,250 running watts. You'll get 11 hours of run time at 50% with the StormResponder from its 420cc engine. A digital screen Briggs & Stratton calls the "StatStation" displays the power load and provides maintenance reminders. A guide printed on the unit depicts which appliances can plug into which of the four onboard outlets.   ... Show more
Get it now
$949 at Lowe's
$849 at The Home Depot
Best high-end portable generators
These high-end units might be overkill for smaller homes, but if you're looking for high starting watts, this group is your best bet.
Generac
Photo Gallery 1/1
Generac
Generac GP8000E
This Generac model, which typically costs $1,100, delivers 10,000 starting watts for easy power-ups.You'll get 8,000 running watts for up to 11 hours at 50% load. A 7.9-gallon fuel tank feeds the 420 cc engine. The Generac GP8000E backup power generator includes flat-free tires, a carbon monoxide auto shutoff and six GFCI outlets.   ... Show more
Get it now
$1,650 at Amazon
DuroMax
Photo Gallery 1/1
DuroMax
Duromax XP13000EH
This heavy-duty portable generator delivers 10,500 running watts and 13,000 starting watts. A dual-fuel gas generator option provides 8.5 hours of run time on gasoline and 6.5 hours of run time on propane, based on a 50% load. Like other dual-fuel models, you can switch fuel types with an onboard button. Several power outlets are provided: two 120-volt GFCI household outlets, one 120-volt 30-amp twist-lock outlet, one 240-volt 30-amp outlet and one 240-volt 50-amp outlet.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,299 at Amazon
$1,299 at Walmart
CAT
Photo Gallery 1/1
CAT
Cat RP6500
Of all the models listed here, this portable generator offers the highest run time for the least money. You'll get 12 hours of power output at 50% load for this $1599 CAT model gas generator. That's thanks to a hefty 7.9-gallon gasoline tank. The CAT RP6500 delivers 8,125 starting watts and 6,500 running watts from its 420cc engine.A CO Defense carbon monoxide automatic shutoff system keeps toxic fumes from building up near your home. There are six rubber-covered outlets, including four GFCI household outlets and two 120/240-volt twist lock outlets.   ... Show more
Get it now
$1,115 at Arbor
$1,192 at Walmart
Champion
Photo Gallery 1/1
Champion
Champion Power Equipment 100110
Similar in price to the Generac model, this Champion generator offers a bit more power output.You'll have 11,500 starting watts and 9,200 running watts at your disposal, as well as a 7.7-gallon fuel tank and 459cc engine that can power your generator at 50% load for 10 hours. One 120/240-volt 30-amp locking outlet, one 120/240-volt 50-amp outlet and four 120-volt 20-amp GFCI-protected household outlets are included. A digital display reads output and maintenance messages.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Amazon
Things to consider when buying a portable generator
Fuel type
Some portable power generator models run on gasoline, while others run on liquid propane tanks. Deciding which fuel type to use for your portable generator likely depends on your available resources.
If you're in a rural area with no gas station nearby, keeping a propane tank for your portable generator might be your best bet for emergency preparedness. If you do have quick access to gasoline, consider the smallest emergency generator for your home, so that you don't burn more fuel than necessary. If you want both options, there are dual-fuel portable generator models that run on either fuel type. If you're looking to be self-sufficient, you could invest in a solar generator" target="_blank that powers through a solar panel or panels. We'll make a point to note that, as far as power goes, solar generators don't have as much of a kick as a portable generator that uses gasoline, which is why they aren't included on this list. Power
You'll want to make sure you choose the best portable generator model for your situation that has enough power output to run everything you need in an emergency. Know your peak power needs. Two terms are important here: starting watts and running watts.
Also known as "peak watts," starting watts are the highest possible wattage that a generator will produce to get an appliance motor running. A portable generator won't sustain this wattage long-term. Think of it like the amount of power needed to jump-start your fridge.
Running watts are the watts a generator can produce for hours on end while powering appliances. You'll want a portable generator with at least as many running watts as watts used by your household appliances.
To calculate just how much wattage you need, a general rule of thumb is to add up the wattage of all the appliances you want to power and multiply by 1.5. You can also look for the starting watts needed for your most power-hungry appliance and add those to the total to find the running power watts.
This rated watts information will be on a sticker inside your appliance or in the manufacturer's manual. If your appliance doesn't list watts, but lists amps and volts, multiply the two to find the wattage. Whatever the sum of your needed watts is, that will be the minimum running wattage you need your generator to produce.
For instance, in my home, I would need to power an 864-watt dishwasher, a 1,440-watt refrigerator and a 3,600-watt oven. That means my generator must have a power output that produces at least 5,904 running watts.
Price
Price is a factor, and in general, you're going to pay more for more peak power. You can find good generators at prices starting around $300, or you can spend big for max power and end up with a $2,000 model. To stay as frugal as possible, limit the number of large appliances you power with a generator. Consider a mini fridge and microwave instead of full-size refrigerators and ovens. If the weather isn't dangerously hot or cold, skip on providing a power supply for your heating or cooling system. If all that sounds a bit overwhelming, there are several handy online calculators to help you tally things up.
How we evaluated these generators
The generators below aren't CNET-reviewed, but they are the internet's most popular and highest-rated, best portable generator models. We've divided them into low, middle and high price ranges. You'll also find specs for each generator's starting power, run time on half power and the fuel type and capacity. Read more: Best Solar Generators Portable generator FAQs
Can a portable generator power a house?
Portable generators vary in size and the amount of power they can provide, but typically portable generators can only back up specific, high-priority appliances like refrigerators, freezers and heaters or air conditioners. Generators that back up the entirety of your home will typically be more expensive and require professional installation. Generators that produce more power are larger, which means more powerful ones get less and less portable.You can find more information in the article above about this rule of thumb for sizing generators: Add up the wattage of every appliance you want to power and multiply it by 1.5.
Show more
How do I use a portable generator efficiently?
You can approach efficiency in a generator in a few different ways. One is by using an inverter generator. Inverter generators match their output to the current electricity demand, which means they burn less fuel. They typically cost more than standard portable generators but can perform the same tasks.Another way to approach this issue is to look at solar generators: portable power stations paired with solar panels. Portable power stations are large batteries that can power many smaller devices. Options that can provide whole-home backup are starting to enter the market.
Show more
How do I use a portable generator overnight?
To use a portable generator overnight, ensure you have enough fuel to run your generator that long. Some generators won't have the fuel capacity to run for eight hours or more. Also, make sure your generator doesn't run afoul of your local noise ordinances.Most importantly, ensure that your generator is running far enough away from your house. Generators can emit carbon monoxide in their exhaust. If it gets into your house, the consequences can be deadly. An average of 70 people in the US each year die from carbon monoxide poisoning related to portable generator use. The Consumer Product Safety Commission recommends operating a generator at least 20 feet from your house with the exhaust pointed away. You should never operate a portable generator inside your house.
Show more
How do I take care of a portable generator?
You should always follow the manufacturer's maintenance instructions for your generator, since each may have special considerations, though there are some widely shared maintenance tips.Regularly change your generator's oil and check the oil before you start it.Don't let fuel sit in your generator's tank for long periods without adding a fuel stabilizer.Cover your generator with a tarp or roof when you're not using it.Start your generator up every month or so and let it run for a few minutes.Replace dirty air and fuel filters as needed.
Show more
More outdoor recommendations
Best Fire Pits for 2024Best Pressure Washer for 2024Camping in Your Home's Backyard? Here's Some Great Gear to Get You StartedEmergency Go Bag: Everything You Need When Evacuating Your HomeBest Portable Power Station
About the Author
Molly Price Former Editor Molly Price Former Editor
Read full bio
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.