Brian Chesky Explains What's Needed to Accelerate Airbnb's Growth - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Tech
Brian Chesky said he thinks Airbnb should be growing a lot faster. Here's what he thinks it will take.
By
Kelsey Vlamis
CEO Brian Chesky described what he thinks is needed to accelerate Airbnb's growth.
PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP via Getty Images
2025-09-17T02:40:53Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky said he's not satisfied with the company's growth rate.
He said Airbnb is focusing on its core home rentals and its new services and experiences businesses.
Chesky has also said Airbnb plans to become an AI-first app.
Airbnb is growing a lot slower than it was just a few years ago, but CEO Brian Chesky is hopeful the company can turn it around.
The Airbnb cofounder and CEO discussed the company's growth rate during an interview on Tuesday at the Skift Global Forum conference, where Chesky appeared virtually.Chesky was asked to address how the company's revenue growth has slowed over the past several years. Airbnb saw 40% revenue growth in 2022, 18% growth in 2023, and 12% growth in 2024. In the first quarter of 2025, its revenue grew 6% year-over-year. In the second quarter, it was up 13%.
"Listen, I'm not happy about where the growth rate is at the company," Chesky said. "I think Airbnb should be growing significantly faster. It should at least be growing in the teens, and I aspire to run the kind of company that'd be growing at more than 20% one day."In order to do that, Chesky said the company needed to accelerate its core business, aka home rentals, and "layer on many businesses."Chesky said that previously Airbnb was a "hypergrowth" company, noting he had cofounded it from his apartment with his roommates. "We grew the company like a rocket ship, but what happened was we didn't really build a lot of the foundation to build a sustainable company," he said.
When the pandemic hit, he said Airbnb focused on cutting costs and becoming profitable. The company went public in 2020 and was profitable by 2022.He said Airbnb realized it had built a vacation rental home company, but that it needed to "rebuild the entire company from the ground up" in order to have many more businesses, rather than just one.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"That's what we've been doing. The final stage is now we reinvent ourselves," Chesky said.
He outlined the company's big bets, including growing its home rental business domestically and abroad, expanding hotel offerings, and its experiences and services, both of which Chesky said he believes will be multi-billion dollar businesses one day.Airbnb relaunched experiences and launched services in May. The idea is that travelers staying at Airbnb, or even locals at home, can book things like private chefs, personal trainers, photography, and massages on demand and directly to their door.Chesky has been enthusiastic about the potential of Airbnb to be an "everything app," where countless types of experiences and services can be booked. He's said on several occasions that he got inspiration from Amazon, which transitioned from selling books to selling everything. He's also said Airbnb is going to become an AI-first app.
Chesky said Tuesday that he firmly believes Airbnb will accelerate growth next year, adding, "We're not putting out any guidance. I don't want to overpromise what we're going to do, but I don't think that people should take our extrapolation of deceleration and extrapolate that forward."Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at kvlamis@businessinsider.com or Signal at @kelseyv.21. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
AirBnB
Travel
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account