Best Electric Cars and EVs for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Electric Vehicles
Best Electric Cars and EVs for 2025
Getting a new electric vehicle is expensive, but it's also a great investment. Here's what to look for and our roundup of the best EVs.
2024 Tesla Model 3 Standard Range Best electric car for most people
See at CarGurus
2024 Hyundai Ioniq 5 Our favorite electric car
See at CarGurus
2024 Rivian R1T Best electric truck
See at CarGurus
2024 Kia EV9 Best three-row electric SUV
See at CarGurus
Lucid Air EVs with the most range, highest energy efficiency
See at CarGurus
2024 BMW i7 xDrive60 Best luxury electric car
See at CarGurus
2024 Tesla Model Y Long Range AWD Best small electric SUV
See at CarGurus
2024 Porsche Taycan GTS Best electric sports car
See at CarGurus
Show more (3 items)
Table of Contents
Best Electric Cars and EVs for 2025
What is the best overall electric car?
Best electric cars of 2025
Factors to consider before buying an EV
How we test electric cars
Other EVs we tested
FAQs
Electric cars are going mainstream. What began as a trickle of niche EVs just a few years ago has become a downpour -- electric vehicles are now the fastest-growing segment of the automotive industry. Over the last 16 years, I've evaluated and driven hundreds of cars, trucks and SUVs for review here at CNET. I've also driven just about every mass-market electric vehicle ever sold in the US and even some that have yet to hit the road. In this list, I've used that experience to help you understand what you should look for in a good electric car, how these battery-powered machines work, and where the technology is heading in the future, near and far.   With the Biden-Harris administration's plans to build 500,000 EV chargers nationwide, tough new EPA emissions standards and certain states eyeing new combustion car bans as early as 2030, automakers and consumers alike have turned more focus toward the adoption and growth of plug-in cars by the end of this decade. Today, more than two dozen automakers offer combined 40-plus full-electric models boasting over 200 miles of range, unique high-tech features and performance that outclasses comparable gasoline-powered models. If you're thinking about buying an electric car, there have never been more choices for you than there are today. Here's how to navigate them -- starting with CNET's best overall electric car.
What is the best overall electric car?
Enlarge Image
Tesla's Model 3 and Model Y are the 800-pound gorillas of current EV landscape. TeslaThere aren't just more EVs to choose from. There's also a wider gamut of available cruising ranges, prices, performance and luxury options, allowing prospective buyers to fine-tune their choice to meet their specific needs and budget. Whether you're looking for basic transportation for zero-emissions commuting or a high-end technology showcase for road-tripping, there's an EV that fits the bill.
Of the EVs available today, Tesla's Model 3 sedan and Model Y SUV offer the best balance, broadest appeal and thanks to their full qualification for federal EV tax credits, some of the best values for most drivers looking to make the jump to electric motoring. Identical in every way other than interior volume, the Models 3 and Y boast more than enough range to tackle a week of commuting on a single charge -- 358 and 330 miles, respectively -- or a long road trip with minimal stops for charging. As Tesla vehicles, the Model 3 and the Model Y SUV also have native access to the Supercharger network, the most widespread and reliable DC fast charging network in the nation. They're by no means perfect -- CNET editors certainly had their share of issues with our long-term Model Y -- but those problems are balanced out by Tesla's consistent over-the-air software improvements and their best-in-class performance.
Best electric cars of 2025
Tesla
2024 Tesla Model 3 Standard Range
Best electric car for most people
Starting at $41,630, the 2023 Tesla Model 3 Standard Range is a tough act to follow, costing less than some combustion-powered sedans in its class once the dust settles after up to a $7,500 federal tax credit and any qualifying state EV incentives. Shoppers with a bit more room in the budget can opt to upgrade to longer-ranging and more powerful dual-motor variants, but this configuration's 272 miles is plenty for year-round daily driving with the occasional road trip, while its efficiency (4 miles per kWh) is the third highest on the road today, keeping operating costs low.The Standard Range battery is mated with a single-motor, rear-wheel-drive variant of Tesla's electric powertrain. Its 0 to 60 mph sprint of 5.8 seconds won't snap your neck, but it's more than quick enough for strong, silent merges and passing. Plus, it's available with all of the cutting-edge dashboard technology and driver aid tech offered on the automaker's more expensive models.ProsExcellent performance, the highest range for the priceAffordable price bolstered by federal tax incentivesNative access to Supercharger fast charging networkConsDashboard tech moves too many basic features to the touchscreenReputation of inconsistent build quality Expensive Autopilot and FSD driver aid tech upgrades Additional AttributesRange: 272 milesEfficiency: 4 mi/kWh, 132 mpgeMax DCFC: 250 kW, 10 to 80% in 18 minutesFeatures: Available FSD driver aid, connected 15.4-inch dashboard displayStarting price: $41,630
See at CarGurus
Antuan Goodwin/CNET
2024 Hyundai Ioniq 5
Our favorite electric car
2024
The angular Ioniq 5 was our first brush with Hyundai Motor Group's E-GMP electric vehicle platform -- which also underpins the Kia's EV6 and EV9 and the Genesis GV60 -- and years later it continues to be one of our favorite electric vehicles in its class. In its thriftiest Long Range RWD configuration, the Ioniq 5 cruises up to 303 miles and covers 3.4 miles per kilowatt-hour. That's an EPA-estimated equivalent of 114 mpge.Beyond simply being thrifty, the Ioniq 5's battery-electric platform enables up to 236-kW DC fast charging making it one of the fastest-charging EVs we've tested. Plus, optional V2L 120-volt AC power delivery lets you use stored battery power outside of the EV while parked for a variety of applications.And, yes, Hyundai's own Ioniq 6 is a bit more efficient with a bit more range (361 miles), but I prefer the 5's sharply styled large hatchback design to the 6 sedan's lozenge silhouette. Either option is a good one, but more room for cargo in roughly the same footprint is a big win, I say.ProsMelds handsome hatchback design with small SUV cargo spaceComes standard with excellent, but not overwhelming dashboard techStandard V2L bidirectional charging port (adapter required)Cons Does not currently qualify for federal plug-in incentive No front trunkAdditional AttributesRange: 303 milesEfficiency: 3.4 mi/kWh, 114 mpgeMax DCFC: 236 kW, 10 to 80% in 18 minutesFeatures:
Standard V2L bidirectional charging, wired Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, available Remote Smart ParkingStarting price: $43,195
See at CarGurus
Rivian
2024 Rivian R1T
Best electric truck
2024
Rivian's fun-loving R1T electric pickup was recently updated with even more powerful dashboard technology, smarter connectivity and subtle exterior design revisions. Joining the already potent lineup of dual- and tri-motor configurations for this refresh is a new quad-motor option with a truly monstrous capacity for acceleration and new battery tech that promises even better range and performance than before.The new R1T Dual Max configuration -- which I've previously called the sweet spot in the lineup -- now rolls for up to 420 miles between recharges. Rivian also turned on compatibility with the NACS standard (via a free adapter) this year, giving drivers access to Tesla's Supercharger network in addition to hundreds of CCS-compatible stations, including Rivian's outdoor-focused Adventure Network.The Rivian R1T is the perfect electric pickup for eco-adventurers eager to explore the great outdoors. Its silent, but extremely capable electric powertrain lets you tackle trails while enjoying the sounds of nature, which is a unique and rewarding experience. The pickup is packed with unique features -- from the customizable gear tunnel to its playful dashboard tech -- that make you feel like you can (and should) go anywhere. Those features make it equally appealing for suburban drivers looking for a zero-emissions vehicle with more rugged utility than an SUV.ProsMassive front trunk and unique gear tunnel storageUpdated dashboard tech features fun, intuitive design and advanced connectivityUpdated powertrain options offer improved range and mind-bending performanceConsCurrently lacks the bidirectional power functionality found on other electric pickupsIt's pricey for a pickupAdditional AttributesRange: up to 420 milesEfficiency: 2.5 mi/kWh, 84 mpgeMax DCFC: 220 kW, 10 to 80% in 41 minutesFeatures: Rivian Gear Tunnel storage, Gear Guard camera system, Highway and Lane Change Assist, Google Cast media streaming while parkedStarting price: $71,700
See at CarGurus
Antuan Goodwin/CNET
2024 Kia EV9
Best three-row electric SUV
2024
I love the adventure-oriented (and recently updated) Rivian R1S, but Kia's new three-row electric EV9 feels, in many ways, like a better fit for families seeking an urban utility vehicle. Tipping the scales are little things, like the EV9's surprisingly low step in height, which makes getting in and out and loading cargo and car seats super easy, and larger factors like Kia's lower starting price of $56,395. The EV9 also features a more conventional suite of dashboard and driver-aid technologies inherited from Kia's family of EVs, PHEVs and combustion cars. "Conventional" may sound like a backhand compliment, but I appreciated how familiar and easy to use the EV9's tech was during my multiple times behind the wheel. Plus, the EV9 supports Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity, giving drivers the flexibility to customize their dashboard experience -- a critical advantage in a vehicle that may be shared with multiple drivers.SUV shoppers will have the choice of two battery sizes and three electric motor configurations, ranging from the 304-mile Light RWD (the longest-ranging spec in the line) to the 379hp GT-Line AWD which leaps from 0-60 mph in just 5.0 seconds -- which is plenty quick for a family hauler. Plus, the EV9 is one of the fastest charging EVs I've tested in this class, able to scramble from 10-80% optimally in around 24 minutes at a 350-kW DC charger. I'm also a huge fan of the EV9's V2L bidirectional power feature that allows the EV's battery to keep critical appliances running during a home power outage with an inexpensive, easy-to-use adapter (and an extension cord.)ProsBold, eye-catching designAvailable battery and e-motor configurations offer plenty of flexibility for various budgetary, range and performance needsOptional V2L bidirectional power adds utility at home during power outages, as well as at campsites and tailgate partiesConsFrunk storage area is only big enough for the power cableSubscription and paid DLC features feels like a slippery slopeAdditional AttributesRange: 304 milesEfficiency: 2.6 mi/kWh, 89 mpgeMax DCFC: 236 kW, 10-80% in 24 min.Features: V2L bidirectional power, Remote Smart Parking Assist, Android Auto/Apple CarPlayStarting price: $56,395
See at CarGurus
Hyundai
2024 Hyundai Kona Electric
Best affordable electric car
Yes, the Nissan Leaf is cheaper but it's so woefully outdated that it's difficult to recommend to all but the most miserly shoppers with the humblest of range requirements. Meanwhile, for not much more, Hyundai's freshly overhauled Kona Electric makes a strong case for your attention matching a modern suite of driver aid, safety and convenience technologies with a handsome, futuristic aesthetic.The entry-level SE model features a 48.6 kWh battery good for around 200 miles of range. Stepping up to the SEL spec (which I highly recommend) increases capacity to 64.8 kWh, range to 261 miles and for good measure, bumps the output to 201 hp (up from 133 ponies.) The Kona Electric also features DC fast charging via the more widely available CCS standard at up to 100 kW -- far from the fastest, but good enough for a roadside 10-80% charge in under 45 minutes. I also love that, like the Leaf, the Kona's charging port is located on the EV's nose, which I think is the most convenient spot for public charging.ProsSmall, but surprisingly spaciousPretty good urban driving rangeCentral charging port is super convenient for public chargingCons100 kW charging speed is faster than previous generation, but still a touch sluggishSmall SUV doesn't offer an all-wheel drive optionAdditional AttributesRange: up to 261 milesEfficiency: 3.45 mi/kWh, 118 mpgeMax DCFC: 100 kW, 10 to 80% in 43 minutesFeatures: Hyundai SmartSense driver aid suite, wireless Android Auto/Apple CarPlay, optional Digital Key smartphone access, optional Remote Smart Parking AssistStarting price: $34,070
Antuan Goodwin/CNET Cars
Lucid Air
EVs with the most range, highest energy efficiency
California-based EV startup Lucid recently announced updates to its Air electric luxury sedan that make it the most energy efficient EV you can buy today by a country mile. Aerodynamic, battery and powertrain improvements elevate the Lucid Air Pure configuration to an amazing 5.0 miles per kilowatt hour -- the equivalent of an EPA estimated 146 mpge -- nearly 20% higher than the next most efficient EV, Hyundai's Ioniq 6. (That said, the Lucid starts at $71,400, almost double the price of the much smaller Hyundai.)Elsewhere in the lineup, the Lucid Air also takes the electric car endurance crown with its 516-mile Lucid Air Grand Touring. To accomplish this feat, Lucid stuffed its large sedan with a massive 112-kWh battery pack, wrapped it in an impressive aerodynamic design that helps it cut through the air with very little drag and compact electric motors with an efficiency of 3.8 kilowatt-hours per mile. If you're ever not feeling particularly thrifty, the dual-motor Air also boasts impressive performance with over 800 hp and 3.0-second 0-to-60 mph sprint. The 2024 Lucid Air Grand Touring tips the scales at $138,000, and that's not even the most expensive spec.ProsGrand Touring boasts the most range of any EV on sale todayPure is the most energy efficient EV by a significant marginTons of storage space including two full-size trunksWicked fast 3.0 second 0-to-60 mphNow available with wireless Apple CarPlayConsExtremely expensiveAwkward dashboard tech, no Android AutoLimited driver-aid tech relative to competitors at this priceAdditional AttributesRange: up to 516 miles (Grand Touring)Efficiency: up to 5.0 mi/kWh, 146 mpge (Pure)Max DCFC: 300 kW, 10-80% in 16 min.Features: 34-inch curved main display, Wireless AppleCarPlay, Alexa voice commandStarting price: $71,400 (Pure)
See at CarGurus
BMW
2024 BMW i7 xDrive60
Best luxury electric car
The new i7 is BMW's flagship electric sedan, hitting the road with 536 horsepower, 549 pound-feet of torque and every gadget and gizmo in the German automaker's arsenal. The i7 boasts up to 318 miles of electric range, features generated electric motor tones composed by Hans Zimmer and is one of the first Bimmers available with the automaker's updated Highway Assistant, which provides Level 2 hands-free driving at speeds up to 85 mph.Inside, you'll find perhaps the most opulent cabin that BMW has ever assembled, with crystal controls, high-quality leather and cashmere trim. If you think the dual 12.3-inch and 14.9-inch dashboard displays are huge, wait until you get a gander at the 31.3-inch 8K BMW Theater Screen that folds down from the ceiling to entertain rear seat passengers with Amazon Fire TV apps powered by 5G data.ProsLarge and luxuriousLong range and fast charging are great for longer haulsAvailable with BMW's first hands-free Highway Assistant techOne of the best rear-seat entertainment screens in the businessConsLess range than Lucid or TeslaAdditional AttributesRange: 324 milesEfficiency: 2.63 mi/kWh, 89 mpgeMax DCFC: 195 kW, 10 to 80% in 34 minutesFeatures: BMW Highway Assistant, hands-free soft close doors, 31.3-inch 8K BMW Theater 5G rear seat entertainment with Amazon Fire TVStarting price: $125,195
See at CarGurus
Tim Stevens/Roadshow
2024 Tesla Model Y Long Range AWD
Best small electric SUV
The Tesla Model Y is everything that EV enthusiasts love about the Tesla Model 3 with a bit more cargo space. The Y's taller seating position, extra headroom and additional cargo capacity have made it slightly more popular than its sibling, narrowly edging out the Model 3 as the best-selling electric car in America. Heavier and with a larger aerodynamic profile than the 3, the Model Y can roam up to 330 miles per charge. That's enough to stand head and shoulders above the rest of the class. Add to that access to Tesla's extensive and, more importantly, reliable Supercharger public charging network and the promise of constant improvement via over-the-air updates (that is, software updates to enhance performance) and it's no wonder the Model Y sells so well. Like the smaller Model 3, the Tesla Model Y also recently regained qualification for the $7,500 federal EV tax credit, bringing its starting price to an adjusted $41,630.ProsNative access to Tesla Supercharger networkMassive range for the moneyMore spacious than Model 3ConsControversial Autopilot and FSD driver aid tech are expensive upgradesReputation for subpar build qualityAdditional attributesRange: 330 milesEfficiency: 3.85 mi/kWh, 123 mpgeMax DCFC: 210 kW, 10 to 80% in 17 minutesFeatures: Available FSD driver aid, connected 15.4-inch dashboard display, optional third-row seatingStarting price: $51,880
See at CarGurus
Antuan Goodwin/CNET
2024 Porsche Taycan GTS
Best electric sports car
The Porsche Taycan is expensive (it's a Porsche, after all) and its range falls short of the class-leading Tesla Model S, but there's more to enjoying an EV than just range. Driving a Taycan tells a completely different story, and I'm confident that the sweet spot GTS model is the most fun you can have in a sporty EV today. With 590 horsepower in this spec and a 3.5-second 0 to 60 mph sprint, the Taycan GTS is quick, but it also corners and connects to the road with precision like no other EV I've ever driven. The build quality, much like its driving dynamics, is basically unbeatable.The range, officially estimated at 246 miles for the Taycan GTS, is more than adequate for daily driving, but it's also not difficult to exceed that when driving with a light foot. We reckon Porsche is underpromising here so that it can overdeliver on the real-world range. Plus, the automaker's 800-volt electric architecture charges quickly -- it's capable of climbing from 10% to 80% in 23 minutes at a powerful charging station.In addition to the sedan profile, the Taycan is also available in Sport Turismo and Cross Turismo electric sport wagon configurations for bonus style and utility.ProsThe most fun I've ever had behind the wheel of an EVExcellent build quality and design matches the price tagThe GTS is the sweet spot for range and performanceConsExpensive for the range promisedLess cargo space than Tesla Model SAdditional attributesRange: 246 milesEfficiency: 2.44 mi/kWh, 83 mpgeMax DCFC: 270 kW, 10 to 80% in 20 minutesFeatures: Driver-focused Porsche Advanced Cockpit, PCM infotainment with integrated Apple Music and Spotify, standard Apple CarPlay, Android AutoStarting price: $140,950
See at CarGurus
Comparison of the best electric cars for 2025 undefined NameMax range (mi.)Price (incl. destination) Best electric car for most people 2024 Tesla Model 3 Standard Range272$41,630Our favorite electric car 2024 Hyundai Ioniq 5303$43,195Best electric truck 2024 Rivian R1T420$71,700Best three-row electric SUV 2024 Kia EV9304$56,395Best affordable electric car 2024 Hyundai Kona Electric261$34,070Best luxury electric car 2024 BMW i7 xDrive60324$125,195EV with the most range, efficiency 2024 Lucid Air 516$71,400Best small electric SUV 2024 Tesla Model Y Long Range AWD330$51,880Best electric sports car 2023 Porsche Taycan GTS246$140,950
Factors to consider before buying an EVRange: How far an electric car can go on a single charge is usually the first number shoppers check when considering an electric vehicle. Longer range means fewer stops on long trips and more peace of mind between charging stations on the road. Considering the national rollout of charging stations has proceeded slower than expected, this is a valid concern. Range can also be significantly affected by factors such as extremely cold or hot weather, along with your driving habits. Plus, all batteries will degrade somewhat over the lifespan of the vehicle, so consider picking an EV with a bit of extra wiggle room in the battery pack. Range is important to the driving experience, but it may not be the most important number on the spec sheet.  Efficiency: The most overlooked number on an EV's spec sheet, but I think it's the most important for a daily driver. Efficiency tells you how much electricity an electric car, truck or SUV uses when cruising, measured in miles per kilowatt-hour or kilowatt-hours per 100 miles. With this number and your local energy rates, you can easily calculate how much it costs to operate an EV and how much you could potentially save compared to a conventional combustion car.
Enlarge Image
An EV's maximum DC fast charging speed can have a big impact on how long a road trip takes. Antuan Goodwin/CNETCharging: Most EVs can recharge overnight at a level 2 home AC charger, and starting each day with a full battery can eliminate a lot of range anxiety.  But for long road trips (or for apartment dwellers who can't recharge their EV every night), an EV's DC fast charging experience can have an even larger impact on EV ownership than its range. Most EVs I recommend can cover at least 200 miles between stops, but DC charging speed can mean the difference between that being a quick 20-minute break or being stuck waiting for up to an hour. You'll also want to consider what EV charging networks (Tesla Superchargers, Electrify America, Rivian's Adventure Network and others) cover your most beaten paths.  Features: An electric car is more than just a battery, motors and a charging port. It's also a car, which means it needs to be a good car that meets your needs for passenger and cargo capacity, cabin technology, safety and driver-aid technologies and style. Some EVs even offer bidirectional charging, which allows owners to draw power from an EV's battery pack while parked, keeping the lights on at home during a blackout or powering a camp, work site or tailgate party.
How we test electric cars I've driven almost every EV model sold in the US over the last 15 years -- from the 62-mile 2012 Mitsubishi i-Miev to the 516-mile Lucid Air Grand Touring -- but the process always starts by getting behind the wheel and driving them in real-world conditions on public roads. For each car I test, I cover over 200 miles behind the wheel on a mixed driving route that includes dense urban roads (complete with potholes), long stretches of highway driving and some good fun twisty mountain roads mixed in for flavor.  On the road, I test the DC fast charging speed and experience, evaluate driving dynamics including handling, acceleration and braking performance and also compare my real-world experience, tested range and efficiency with estimates reported by the US EPA, both to double-check the official numbers against the real world and to make sure my experiences represent those of the typical American driver. Along the way, I also check each car's cabin comfort, dashboard tech and driver aid and safety features to get a feel for where each vehicle fits in my experience testing hundreds of combustion, hybrid, hydrogen and yes, battery-powered cars for CNET reviews.
Enlarge Image
I've been reviewing cars and car technology at CNET for over 15 years. Antuan Goodwin/CNET Other EVs we tested I've fallen head over heels for our long-term 2022 Kia EV6 Wind AWD, which has a similar powertrain and performance to Hyundai's Ioniq 5 and Ioniq 6. I prefer the look and suspension tuning of the EV6 to its cousins, but would probably recommend the Ioniq 5 to EV newbies for one reason: It comes with a charging cable. The EV6 does not, which means you'll need to source your own. The Kia does, however, include Hyundai/Kia's flexible V2L bidirectional charging adapter, which is nice. Volkswagen's ID.4 boasts solid range, performance and value and is more spacious than other electric SUVs in its class. However, awkward dashboard touch controls and strange ergonomic design decisions -- such as the omission of rear window switches on the back doors -- kept it from clicking with me. I also enjoyed my time piloting BMW's iX and, particularly, the i4 M50. Both are excellent options for drivers looking for luxurious alternatives to Tesla's Model Y and Model 3, but they each have a more conventional dashboard design, more premium fit and finish and more driver-focused performance.
Enlarge Image
Our long-term 2022 Kia EV6 Wind AWD has been enjoyable and reliable for over 6,000 miles of testing. Antuan Goodwin/CNET FAQs
How much range should I look for in an electric car?
How much range you'll need from an EV will vary depending on your individual needs and driving habits. For most drivers with an average American commute -- around 55.2 miles according to the most recent US Census Bureau data -- an EV in the 200- to 300-mile ballpark will provide adequate range for daily driving, unexpected errands and the occasional road trip. This leaves some wiggle room for apartment dwellers, who may not be able to charge every night and for drivers who live in areas with extreme heat or cold weather, which can sap as much as 41% of EV's stated range in the most extreme cases. Check out our explainer on how much range to target when buying an electric car.
Show more
How long does it take to charge an electric car?
Broadly, there are three levels of EV charging that you need to know. DC fast charging is the fastest charging method used by public charging networks, such as Electrify America, EVgo or Tesla Superchargers, getting you from 10 to 80% full (the most efficient range for fast charging) in as little as 18 minutes or up to an hour. Level 2 home or public stations average around 9.6 kW, getting you around a day's worth of driving with an overnight session. Level 1 chargers plug into the familiar NEMA 5-15 home outlet -- the same one your TV or laptop uses -- and can take from 12 to 24 hours to trickle charge at Level 1, making this only really useful as a last expedient when there are no other options.
Show more
Are electric cars more expensive than gas-powered cars?
Within the same class, EVs tend to be more expensive than their combustion-powered cousins due to the rare and costly materials that make up their large battery packs. Economies of scale and new production processes could eventually result in at the point of purchase price parity, but for now, prospective buyers will want to look to any available federal and state tax incentives or rebates to offset the cost. Additionally, EVs can be less expensive to operate, potentially saving money over the long term.
Show more
Are electric cars as safe as gas-powered cars?
A battery's weight could affect handling and braking distance, and an inexperienced driver could be caught off guard by an EV's strong acceleration, but those aren't risks unique to electric cars. On the other hand, EVs often use the most modern driver-aid technologies and passive safety features in an automaker's portfolio, which can tip the safety scales in their favor.Electric cars do require first responders to handle them differently in the event of an accident or fire. Despite a few high-profile fire-risk recalls, however, multiple studies show that EVs are actually significantly less likely to catch fire than combustion cars.
Show more
Are electric cars better for the environment than gas-powered cars?
Lacking tailpipe emissions, the transition to electric cars can greatly improve local air quality. In areas where electricity is generated with fossil or carbon-based fuels, EVs will still have a macro environmental impact. Factor in the mining of rare battery and motor materials and the answer becomes less clear. Many major automakers have pledged to build carbon-neutral supply chains, factories and manufacturing processes, which could further reduce EVs' global environmental impact. Meanwhile, moving regional electrical grids to renewable sources while individual homes make use of rooftop solar generation can make an electric car more and more environmentally friendly over its lifetime.
Show more
Antuan Goodwin
Read more from Antuan
Antuan started out in the automotive industry the old-fashioned way, by turning wrenches in a driveway and picking up speeding tickets. He now has nearly 20 years of expertise and experience behind the wheel of hundreds of cars, including electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen, and traditional combustion vehicles.
For each car he tests, Antuan covers more than 200 miles behind the wheel and evaluates driving dynamics; acceleration and braking performance; range; and efficiency.
Antuan's goal is to use his extensive car knowledge to educate CNET readers and help with their next car-related buying decision. Whether you're EV-curious, an EV-enthusiast or a combustion-car loyalist, Antuan will bring you the unbiased advice, reviews, best lists and news you need.
You can reach Antuan at antuan.goodwin@cnet.com
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Other Energy Saving Guides
Other Types of Energy
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Portable Power Stations
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced
Home Generator Buying Guide
Heat Pump vs. Furnace
Anker Portable Power Station
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced vs. Nest Thermostat
Nest Learning Thermostat vs. Nest Thermostat
Storage Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart
Living Off the Grid Series
Moving Off- Grid: My Ultimate Pandemic Project Is About More Than Utility Bills
How Living With Solar Panels Demystified Electricity for Me
For Life Off the Grid, Batteries Mean Independence
The Biggest Pros and Cons of Living Off-Grid Arent What I Expected
The Hidden (and Not So Hidden) Expenses of Living Off Grid
My Off-Grid Project: The Secrets I Learned to Save on Solar
Article updated on August 7, 2024 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Antuan Goodwin
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Antuan Goodwin Senior Writer, Electrified Cars Antuan started out in the automotive industry the old-fashioned way, by turning wrenches in a driveway and picking up speeding tickets. He now has nearly 20 years of expertise and experience behind the wheel of hundreds of cars, including electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen, and traditional combustion vehicles.
For each car he tests, Antuan covers more than 200 miles behind the wheel and evaluates driving dynamics; acceleration and braking performance; range; and efficiency.
Antuan's goal is to use his extensive car knowledge to educate CNET readers and help with their next car-related buying decision. Whether you're EV-curious, an EV-enthusiast or a combustion-car loyalist, Antuan will bring you the unbiased advice, reviews, best lists and news you need.
You can reach Antuan at antuan.goodwin@cnet.com Expertise Nearly two decades of testing, driving, reporting on, writing about, reviewing, and editing content about electric and ICE cars. Category focus is on electrified cars, EVs, HEVs, PHEVs, ICE cars, EV infrastructure, EV chargers, EV adapters, EV news, auton Credentials North American Car, Truck and SUV of the Year (NACTOY) Awards Juror
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
174175176177178179180+ Experts Interviewed 030405060708091011121314+ Companies Reviewed 108109110111112113+ Products Reviewed
How we test
We thoroughly evaluate each company and product we review and ensure our stories meet our high editorial standards.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.