The most impressive piece of tech I've tested in 2025 (and it isn't smart glasses) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
The most impressive piece of tech I've tested in 2025 (and it isn't smart glasses)
I test a lot of new phones, but the most surprising one this year has completely changed my mind about foldables. Here's why.
Written by
Jason Hiner, Editor in ChiefEditor in Chief
Sept. 23, 2025 at 6:28 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeawaysFold 7 finally feels like a regular flagship phone when closed.One UI 8 and Android 16 make foldables way more useful.Fold 7's modes go beyond just switching from phone to tablet.It didn't take long for Samsung's Z Fold 7 to change my mind about folding phones. After testing it for less than a week, I'm not only convinced that I could use this as my daily work phone, but I've also realized that there are features I'd seriously miss if I went back to a normal phone. That's a long way from my previous experiences with foldables, including extended time with the Z Fold 5 just two years ago. I've simply never loved folding phones, and after testing them, I've never felt tempted to turn one into my new work phone -- which has been a long string of various Android models since the Nexus One in 2010.  But the Fold 7 is different. The hardware on the Fold 7 is light years ahead of last year's Galaxy Fold 6 -- it's 25% thinner, both when folded and unfolded. In fact, the Fold 7 is the most impressive piece of tech hardware that I've put my hands on all year. When you pick it up, it has an immediate wow factor, especially when you hold it next to other flagship phones.  Also: Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 vs. Z Fold 6: I tried both phones, and the difference is dramaticBut the most impressive part of the Fold 7 is not just how it looks and feels - it's how it works. More than ever, it has a UX that takes full advantage of all the possibilities of the foldable form factor.  So let's break it down. Here are my three reasons why the Fold 7 has changed my opinion of foldable phones.
1. Feels like carrying a regular phone The biggest difference with the Fold 7 is how much it looks and feels like a regular phone when it's folded closed and you're simply looking at the cover screen or the back of the phone. If you saw it sitting on a desk or a table next to someone else's phone, you could easily mistake it for just another standard smartphone.  In fact, next to my iPhone 16 Pro Max or my Samsung S24 Ultra -- the two phones I carry every day -- the Fold 7 is slightly smaller. In fact, a closed Fold 7 looks similar to Sony Xperia smartphones and uses the same 21:9 aspect ratio that is slightly thinner than most of today's smartphones. However, it's almost 10% wider than previous models of the Fold, and that extra width is enough to make it feel like a normal phone.
The size of the Galaxy Z Fold 7 (right) compared to the iPhone 16 Pro Max. Jason Hiner/ZDNETAt the same time, it's also lighter (215 grams) than my iPhone 16 Pro Max (227g) and Samsung S25 Ultra (233g) -- as well as last year's Fold 6 (239g). It's remarkable to realize this folding phone is now both thinner and lighter than the best-selling flagship phones. Also: I spent a week in New York City with the Samsung Z Fold 7 - and it spoiled me the entire timeOne benefit I didn't expect from the width of the Fold 7 when it's closed and using the cover screen is that it's easier to use one-handed than the large flagship phones I usually carry. And then when I'm ready to use it two-handed, I can simply flip it open, and that's when the real magic happens on the 8-inch main screen.
BUY NOW Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 Samsung's breakthrough foldable offers larger displays, thinner hardware, and improved multi-tasking with Android 16.
View at Samsung
2. Software now plays to its strengths Samsung has long been a builder of some of the world's most impressive, cutting-edge hardware devices. So it's no surprise that the Fold 7 has finally caught up to the vision of the foldable phone as a small tablet disguised as a phone that can transform at a moment's notice.  Now that Samsung has officially pulled off the hardware for that vision in the Fold 7, it could have easily taken a couple more generations to get the software right. But thankfully, that's not the case. With an assist from Google and Android 16, the software on the Fold 7 now does a lot more to take advantage of the full productivity potential of the hardware.  Also: Google Pixel 10 Pro Fold vs. Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7: Here's the clear winner after testing bothMy first and favorite example of this is the new 90:10 split-screen view, a feature Google built into Android 16 with collaboration from Samsung and its One UI 8 software. With this, you can take two apps that are side-by-side on the 8-inch main screen, put your finger on the center line between them, and then drag it almost all the way to one side or the other and let go.  It will then snap into 90:10 view where you only see a sliver of the one app while viewing most of the other app. However, now you can tap that sliver to open it in 90% of the screen and move the other app to 10%. This lets you quickly switch back and forth between two apps that are helpful to use next to each other, such as Slack and email or a word processor and a web browser.
The new 90:10 split-screen in Fold 7, compliments of Android 16. Jason Hiner/ZDNETAnother nice productivity feature is the "Continue apps on cover screen" option. This is especially effective now that the cover screen is the size of a normal phone screen. I prefer to set this up by going to Settings > Display > "Continue apps on cover screen" and then selecting "Swipe up to continue app."  Also: Samsung just quietly teased its Galaxy Glasses - and almost no one noticedThen, when you are working on an app such as your calendar on the main screen and you need to close your phone, a round-up arrow pops up on the bottom of your cover screen that says "Swipe to continue". You simply swipe up and continue working on your app on the cover screen. Previously, your Fold would have turned off the screen, and you would have had to unlock it and reopen the same app on the cover screen to continue working. There are a lot more software options like this. Look for a future article where I provide a list of productivity hacks from the expanded UX on the Fold 7.
3. Multiple modes to drive productivity One of the best things about the Fold 7 is that it's not merely like having both a phone and an 8-inch tablet in your pocket. Because of the folding form factor, it can also do some things that a standard 8-inch tablet can't. But before I get ahead of myself, let's talk about the standard modes first. Then we'll get to the creative stuff. If all the Fold 7 did was turn your flagship phone into a tablet when you had both hands free and were ready to multitask, then it would be a win. As mentioned above, the improvements in the software now make multitasking a lot better, more efficient, and more productive.  Being able to run two, three, and even four apps on the main screen of the Fold 7 feels like speeding in a sports car compared to the normal ways of flipping between apps on a phone, which feels pedestrian by comparison. There are also some cases where simply having a much larger screen to view things like spreadsheets, restaurant menus, the desktop version of web pages, and even video calls on Zoom and Google Meet can be a huge improvement.  Also: 24 hours later with Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7: Why I'm leaving the S25 Ultra behindI often like to take 1:1s and meetings while walking outside to get some fresh air and exercise at various times throughout the day. One of the biggest challenges on these walks is when something comes up where I need to access or view a document or a message that's not easy to look at from my phone. The Fold 7 is a champ in those instances because I can flip it open and use that 8-inch screen to view things in a much more usable way.  Now let's talk about Flex Mode -- one of my favorite hidden gems on the Fold 7. To enter this mode, you turn the Fold 7 sideways when you're on the main screen (make sure "Auto rotate" is turned on in the Quick Settings Panel), and then you fold the phone to 90 degrees so that it looks like an open laptop and set it down.  You can do this while you're in YouTube and the video will go on the top screen and controls will go on the bottom screen. You can do it in a typing app like Slack, Gmail, or ChatGPT while the keyboard is open and the app screen will go on top and the keyboard will go on the bottom. You can do it with a video call app like Google Meet and the video tiles will go on the top screen and the meeting controls will go on the bottom -- you can also adjust the screen like a laptop to center yourself in the frame for the video call.
The Fold 7 in Flex Mode, running Anthropic's Claude chatbot.  Jason Hiner/ZDNETNot only can the Fold 7 act like a mini laptop, it can also act like a desktop computer, using Samsung DeX and new upgrades in Android 16. You can connect your Fold 7 to a computer monitor or a TV via a cable (such as HDMI to USB-C) or wirelessly, and you can attach a keyboard and mouse via Bluetooth. DeX has gradually gotten more usable over the years, but Google did Samsung a solid in Android 16 by integrating some new features such as "desktop windowing" that now allows you open, move, and resize multiple windows within DeX mode so that the environment looks and feels a lot more like Windows or a Mac. Also: Changing these 7 settings on my Samsung phone greatly extended its battery lifeI have some tips for optimizing this kind of setup that I'll put in a future article, but the bottom line is that this phone can function like a full computer and since the Fold 7 is likely to already have all of your most used apps and data, it can be a functional work computer in a pinch. It's probably not going to replace your full-time PC but it might actually be more productive than a Chromebook or a tablet.
Final thought These are my first impressions of the Samsung Fold 7. I've got a lot more to say about it and more things I want to test. But there's no doubt that the Fold 7 is a breakthrough device that brings the promise of a true 2-in-1 phone into reality. The Chinese phonemakers have been building devices like this for a couple years and Apple will reportedly release its first foldable iPhone in 2026. But for now, the Samsung Fold 7 is the best foldable available in the US -- and it may even give us a peek at what the future of all flagship phones could look like. ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why Apple's new iPhone Air looks so much like an Android (it's not all in your head)
iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winner
I tested the iPhone Air for a week, and here's why 17 Pro Max users shouldn't sleep on it
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use