Will mortgage interest rates drop further this fall? Lending experts weigh in - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Trump at U.N.
SIM Card Threat
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
MoneyWatch
|
Managing Your Money
CBS News Price Tracker
Watch CBS News
We may receive commissions from some links to products on this page. Promotions are subject to availability and retailer terms.
MoneyWatch: Managing Your Money
Will mortgage interest rates drop further this fall? Lending experts weigh in
By
Melanie
Lockert
Edited By
Matt
Richardson
Matt
Richardson
Sr. Managing Editor, Managing Your Money
Matt Richardson is the senior managing editor for the Managing Your Money section for CBSNews.com. He writes and edits content about personal finance ranging from savings to investing to insurance.
Read Full Bio
Matt
Richardson
September 22, 2025 / 9:49 AM EDT
/ CBS News
Mortgage interest rates could continue to decline this fall, if certain conditions are met, experts say.
saifulasmee chede/Getty Images
Average mortgage interest rates have started their much-awaited descent, recently falling to a new three-year low. They've declined over the past few weeks, which is a positive sign for homebuyers. For the past two to three years, mortgage rates have been elevated. Though it may not be significant, the reprieve could signal what's to come this fall. The Federal Reserve made its first rate cut of the year in September, reducing the federal funds rate by 25 basis points. Further rate cuts could be on the horizon, as the agency aims to keep the economy in balance with maximum employment and price stability. Given the current economic data and policy changes, is now a good time to lock in a rate or wait? We spoke with three home lending experts about the potential for more mortgage interest rate drops this fall and what borrowers should consider. Start by seeing how low your current mortgage rate offers are here.Will mortgage interest rates drop further this fall? Average mortgage rates on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage stood at 6.26% as of the week of September 18th, according to data from FreddieMac. Over the past few weeks, mortgage interest rates have been trending downward. But will mortgage rates continue to go down? It depends on various factors. Here's what the experts we spoke to said to monitor:The Federal Reserve's future actions The Federal Reserve cut the federal funds rate for the first time in September, after holding it steady all year. However, that rate cut was largely expected, which may have influenced the direction of mortgage rates right now. "That essentially has already been priced in and may have something to do with why we've seen rates come down a bit so far," says Mark Anderson, senior loan officer at Guild Mortgage.
The Fed has two more meetings in 2025 in October and December. Current data from the CME Group's FedWatch tool shows there is a high likelihood of rate cuts at both meetings. Only time will tell, but even so, the Federal Reserve's action doesn't have a direct influence on mortgage rates."Mortgage rates don't just follow the Fed like a shadow; they're tied more to long-term bond markets. If markets get spooked about inflation sticking around, rates might not budge much. From my experience, a Fed cut creates ripples, not waves, but it's still a moment to watch," says Steven Glick, director of mortgage sales at HomeAbroad, a real estate investment fintech company specializing in mortgages for foreign buyers.Learn more about your current mortgage rate options online today.The economic landscape Whether mortgage interest rates rise or drop has a lot to do with the economic landscape and investors' expectations, which affect the 10-year Treasury yield.
"Today's conversation about the Fed, the mortgage rates and the housing market really comes down to two things. How the job market is shifting, and how inflation expectations are playing out. And those two forces make this year very different from last year when the Fed started cutting," says Nadia Evangelou, senior economist and director of real estate research at the National Association of Realtors.Inflation is inching upward, while job growth has slowed down. The unemployment rate is increasing slightly, which could signal a cooling labor market. The mortgage interest rate forecast for the fall Now that mortgage rates have started to go down slightly, many homeowners want to know if that momentum will continue. According to the experts we spoke to, the mortgage interest rate forecast for the fall could bring lower rates, but probably not anything major. "What I think is most likely at this point is that the trend toward lower rates will probably continue. I don't see anything changing very quickly," says Anderson."Based on what I'm seeing in the market right now, I expect mortgage rates to fall a bit more through the end of 2025, likely settling around 6.0-6.2%," says Glick. "The economy's cooling with those recent weak jobs report, plus inflation ticking up just a hair, which could push the Fed to keep cutting rates at their next meetings in October and December." The bottom line While a mortgage interest rate drop may not be significant, it can be meaningful. If mortgage rates hit the 6% mark on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, around 5.5 million additional households could afford a home, according to data from the National Association of Realtors. So if interest rates start to fall to that level, the housing market may see an increase in activity. If you're serious about homebuying and want to be ready if mortgage interest rates drop, Glick says, "My advice this fall is to get pre-approved now."
Because mortgage rates can fluctuate, you might consider a rate lock, which essentially freezes your mortgage rate until you close. There are two issues to keep in mind, though. First, if you need to extend the rate lock, you may be charged to do. Secondly, if mortgage rates fall even further, you could be ineligible for a new rate. You can ask your mortgage lender about a float-down option, which could allow you to score a lower interest rate if rates fall. However, this typically comes at a cost, often a percentage of the loan amount. If you're looking to enter the real estate market, the key is to do your research and be ready if rates continue to decline. Have more questions? Learn more about mortgage interest rates and homebuying here now.
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
More from CBS News
What are the monthly payments on a $1 million mortgage now that the Fed has cut rates?
4 ways to find low mortgage rates this October, according to experts
What are today's mortgage and mortgage refinance interest rates?
How much will a $100,000 home equity loan cost monthly now that the Fed cut interest rates?
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue