Undervolting my CPU was one of the best system "upgrades" I've ever made
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Undervolting my CPU was one of the best system "upgrades" I've ever made
By
Ty Sherback
Published 14 hours ago
His love of PCs and their components was born out of trying to squeeze every ounce of performance out of the family computer. Tinkering with his own build at age 10 turned into building PCs for friends and family, fostering a passion that would ultimately take shape as a career path.
Besides being the first call for tech support for those close to him, Ty is a computer science student, with his focus being cloud computing and networking. He also competed in semi-pro Counter-Strike for 8 years, making him intimately familiar with everything to do with peripherals.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When we think of increasing performance with existing components, we often think about strategies like overclocking, increasing power limits, and replacing an existing cooling solution. While overclocking does have its merits, there's a far easier way to increase performance without potentially sacrificing the longevity of your parts: undervolting. Instead of pumping more voltage through your CPU, creating more heat and shortening the effective lifespan of the silicon, undervolting does the opposite. I've undervolted all the parts in my system, but my CPU undervolt breathed new life into my system. So much so, that it felt like I upgraded my CPU is a more powerful SKU.
What is undervolting?
Less power, more performance?
Undervolting is the practice of decreasing the voltage supplied to a component while maintaining (or even increasing) clock speeds. CPU manufacturers ship a CPU set at a specific, stable voltage that they apply to all units they ship. This "one-size-fits-all" approach works for them because they know the silicon will be stable at that voltage, but many CPUs in a given SKU can run at a reduced voltage just fine. There is an element of the silicon lottery at play here, just as there is with overclocking. Some CPUs won't be able to maintain stability at lower voltages, and some may be able to dive far below spec. It really depends on the quality of chip you received, and there's no way to tell until you start trying it for yourself.
How it helps real-world performance
Feels like an upgrade all on its own
Undervolting makes your CPU use less power, which also reduces operating temperatures significantly. Furthermore, this reduction in temperature has a direct knock-on effect on performance, often enabling the CPU to boost clocks higher and for longer. For workstations, this means render or compile times are reduced, and for gaming, it means more stable performance. Reduced temperatures also mean your cooling system doesn't have to work as hard to keep temps down, lowering overall noise. All of these benefits apply to laptops, too.
It's a super simple process
It's not akin to overclocking
Overclocking can be simple, but it has a connotation of being a complex undertaking. There are a few different moving parts, but with undervolting, there's really only one, and it's voltage. For AMD processors, undervolting can be done through Ryzen Master, reducing all-core values in the Curve Optimizer. I started small, on my Ryzen 7 7800X3D, with steps of -5. I settled around -20, as anything lower started to affect stability in a few select applications. You can verify your values aren't going to instantly crash by using the "Validate Offset" function within Ryzen Master, but really, if you want to really ensure stability, you should stress test using Prime95. For Intel-based machines, undervolting can be done through their Intel XTU utility, where you can adjust core ratios and voltage offsets directly. For either CPU vendor, monitoring temps using something like HWmonitor or Core Temp is a good idea. In my case, my CPU was capable of a significant undervolt, and while my idle temps didn't move, my core temps under load dropped by 10+ degrees. I also noticed the boost clocks being maintained for longer while under load. Perhaps the most noticeable effect was my framerate in Counter-Strike 2. Before, it would routinely dip below 240, especially with a lot of action on screen, but the undervolt kept my minimum FPS high and reduced stuttering significantly.
There are downsides
Stability can be shaky
Undervolting wasn't all smooth sailing for me. I was fighting weird instability with very specific games after applying lower voltages, though things were stable with Prime95. The type of workload does matter, and while lowering voltage doesn't pose any kind of danger to your hardware, weird things can happen, so creating restore points and backing up important data is always a good idea before making any kind of changes. I didn't see any kind of issues even when crashing, and it's rare, but data loss can occur.
Undervolting is always worth experimenting with
Not every system can handle a deep overclock, and not everyone has the budget for premium cooling, but undervolting is available to just about anyone. With only a little patience, you can reclaim performance, reduce noise, and even extend the life of your components. It’s proof that sometimes the most effective upgrade isn’t new hardware, but simply using what you already have more efficiently.
CPU
Ryzen
Intel
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
Google’s new desktop app might finally make finding files on Windows simple
4 days ago
The free Obsidian plugins that simplified my productivity workflow
3 days ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
4 days ago
I tried dozens of Pocket alternatives, and I keep coming back to this self-hosted tool
Today's best deals
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
3 hours ago
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
14 hours ago
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This free and open-source app helps me keep track of all the stuff I usually forget
6 Home Assistant integrations I wish I knew about day one
These Nintendo 64 games need to be added to the Nintendo Switch Online mature app next
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.