4 reasons you need to start using WinGet on Windows
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 reasons you need to start using WinGet on Windows
By
Abhishek Kumar Mishra
Published 20 hours ago
Abhishek is an author at XDA who covers computing.
He has loved computers since he got the Lenovo G570 in 2012. Abhishek holds a master's degree in computer applications and began his writing career in 2018. He loves writing how-to articles, listicles, and informational posts on popular operating systems and web services.
He closely follows the Windows Insider program and tests new Insider builds to discover upcoming experimental features and upgrades. His past work includes long-term collaborations with reputed publications like Tom's Hardware, and Windows Latest.
When not writing anything, he is busy watching new episodes of One Piece or searching for something binge-worthy.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Package managers are less common among the general Windows user base. Most of us still prefer the old Microsoft Store or web search method for finding and installing software packages on our PCs. I also followed the same procedure whenever I had to install an app on my Windows 10 or 11 PC. WinGet debuted in 2022, and it was my first time trying a command-line tool for installing and managing system packages. Before that, I had heard of Chocolatey and a few others, but I never really tried them. WinGet changed my perception of how package managers work, and its features really drove me away from the common app install methods. It’s faster, easily configurable, and maintains a repository with multiple tools to make the package management a child’s play. Here are four reasons it’s become my go-to tool on Windows 11.
Customizable package management
Choose what you need
Normally, you would use the app developer’s official website to download and launch the installer file. WinGet eliminates this problem and reduces the number of installation steps. Simply search for the app with the winget search “appname” command, and it’ll fetch the list of packages containing that name. But I can do the same with the Microsoft Store, right? Yes, but there’s a difference. Searching for an app on the Microsoft Store will fetch only the latest app installer, but a WinGet search will list all the available versions in the WinGet repository and the Microsoft Store. You’ll even see Extended Support Release (ESR) versions of the tool in the search results. It’s helpful when a newer app version doesn’t work nicely on your system, and you want to revert to an older version. Enter the winget install "ID" command to install the package. You can add the --version option at the end to specify the package you want to install.
Seamless app installs
No bothersome pop-ups
Another irritating problem I face when installing apps via their executable setup file is the excessive number of prompts. I mostly prefer the default installation settings for most apps, and there’s no reason to delay the overall installation time. WinGet allows me to do this with a silent installation option that doesn’t display any annoying pop-ups. Just append the WinGet installation command with -h at the end, and it’ll just show a single progress bar without multiple pop-ups. The app will install with default settings and will not prompt you to install additional bloatware, such as PC cleaners, ad blockers, or downloaders.
Easy upgrades and package removal
Update everything with one command
I appreciate the one-click update button in the Microsoft Store because it allows you to update all system and store apps in one go. But have you ever tried to do the same for apps installed from other sources? It’s certainly not easy to open every app, go to the about section, and manually update each one. WinGet offers the upgrade option to check for available updates, if any. You can convert it to a system-wide app update command by appending --all in the end. This simple modification will find all the apps listed with a newer version in the WinGet repository and initiate a chain reaction of app updates. You’ll notice that it doesn’t list all your installed apps, and there’s a reason for that. The WinGet repository doesn’t include every app, but tries to include reliable and lesser-known ones. If you have a super-niche app or something not in common use (or devs have stopped maintaining it), you won’t be able to update it. Still, having a command-line “update all” option is a huge improvement over updating all the third-party apps individually. Another useful aspect I like is removing app packages for which Microsoft doesn’t offer a direct method. For example, I want to uninstall Game Bar, a system component, but there’s no uninstall option in the Advanced settings. But I can find its ID using the list “searchquery” command and then use the ID to remove it. There’s no warning pop-up, and it wipes the app from my PC. If I run the same list command again, it confirms that the app is no longer a part of my system.
Exporting or importing packages
A single installation script to migrate apps
I appreciate Windows 11’s efforts to back up the personal data, settings, and apps. It becomes a near-perfect transition to a new PC, and you can click on one button to install all the Microsoft Store apps. But this feature ignores all the third-party apps you installed on your previous system. How would you get them back in one go? The answer lies in WinGet’s ability to export and import app lists. On the surface, it looks like a simple command to import the package list on your system. But you can use this JSON file on a different system to start the import process. It’s not as fluid as the Microsoft Store option, but you can install most third-party apps with one command. You can also append the import option so it can automatically accept the package and source agreements, resulting in a painless reinstallation. Note that WinGet’s power is limited to its repository, so it’ll exclude the apps that aren’t listed. It’s a minor inconvenience you have to go through, and I usually generate a list of excluded apps that I need to install later on.
Don’t ignore WinGet
WinGet deserves more recognition. It’s a useful tool that can simplify upgrading and removing app packages. You won’t find it difficult to use the command line, but if you feel stuck, ample GUI tools like WinGetUI add an easy-to-use interface over the tool. I suggest sticking to the command-line version because it’s baked into the OS and doesn’t need additional permissions.
Software and Services
Windows 11: Everything you need to know
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Zelendel
Zelendel
Zelendel
#TW724561
Member since 2024-06-19
0
Threads
29
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
As long as it sticks to command line it will get used less and less.
Also with apps built in updaters things like this are really useless.
2025-09-25 10:16:38
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
This free and fast File Manager is the best I've used on Linux
2 days ago
6 of the coolest HACS integrations for Home Assistant users
3 days ago
I tried out the brand new KDE Linux distro, and it's already my favorite
2 days ago
5 systemd tweaks that really boost my boot time
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
32 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 BIOS settings gamers forget to change
Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
OPNsense is perfect for protecting your home network, but it can cause unexpected issues
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.