Welcome to LWN.net [LWN.net]
LWN.net
News from the source
ContentWeekly EditionArchivesSearchKernelSecurityEvents calendarUnread commentsLWN FAQWrite for us
User:
Password:
|
|
Subscribe /
Log in /
New account
Welcome to LWN.net
LWN.net is a reader-supported news site dedicated to producing the best
coverage from within the Linux and free software development communities.
See the LWN FAQ for more information, and
please consider subscribing to gain full
access and support our activities.
[$] The phaseout of the mmap() file operation
[Kernel] Posted Sep 25, 2025 16:48 UTC (Thu) by corbet
The file_operations
structure in the kernel is a set of function pointers implementing, as the
name would suggest, operations on files.
A subsystem that manages objects
which can be represented by a file descriptor will provide a
file_operations structure providing implementations of the various
operations that a user of the file descriptor may want to carry out.
The
mmap() method, in particular, is invoked when user space calls the
mmap()
system call to map the object behind a file descriptor into its address
space.
That method, though, is currently on its way out in a multi-release
process that started in 6.17.
Full Story (comments: none)
[$] LWN.net Weekly Edition for September 25, 2025
Posted Sep 25, 2025 2:01 UTC (Thu)
The LWN.net Weekly Edition for September 25, 2025 is available.
Inside this week's LWN.net Weekly Edition
Front: Debian stable bug; Canceling async Rust; CHERI Linux; Time-slice extension; Multikernel; Revocable references; Blender 4.5.
Briefs: Bluefin LTS; RPM 6.0.0; Tails 7.0; Rust 1.90.0; Infrastructure costs; Quotes; ...
Announcements: Newsletters, conferences, security updates, patches, and more.
Read more
[$] Canceling asynchronous Rust
[Development] Posted Sep 24, 2025 15:15 UTC (Wed) by daroc
Asynchronous Rust code has what Rain Paharia calls a "universal cancellation
protocol", meaning that any asynchronous code can be interrupted in the same
way. They claim
that this is both a useful feature when used deliberately, and a source of
errors when done by accident. They presented
about this problem at
RustConf 2025, offering a handful of techniques to avoid introducing bugs into
asynchronous Rust code.
Full Story (comments: 22)
[$] CHERI with a Linux on top
[Security] Posted Sep 24, 2025 14:09 UTC (Wed) by jake
The Capability
Hardware Enhanced RISC Instructions (CHERI) project is a rethinking of
computer architecture in order to improve system security.
Carl Shaw gave
a presentation at
Linux
Security Summit Europe (LSS EU) about CHERI and the efforts to get
Linux running on it.
He introduced capabilities,
which are a mechanism for access control, and outlined their
history, which goes back many decades at this point, then looked more
specifically at the CHERI project and what it will take to apply the
security constraints of capabilities to an operating system like Linux.
Full Story (comments: 6)
[$] An unstable Debian stable update
[Distributions] Posted Sep 23, 2025 15:14 UTC (Tue) by jzb
A bug in a recent release of systemd's network manager caused
headaches for people managing systems that have a virtual LAN (VLAN)
interface on a bridge; something one might want to do, for example,
when configuring network interfaces for virtual machines. The bug
affected several Debian users when upgrading the systemd package
from v257.7-1 to v257.8-1. The updated package is part of the Debian 13.1
release, and the bug has snared enough users to cause a minor
stir—due in no small part to the maintainer's response as much
as the bug itself.
Full Story (comments: 115)
[$] Revocable references for transient devices
[Kernel] Posted Sep 22, 2025 14:05 UTC (Mon) by corbet
Computers were once relatively static devices; if a peripheral was present
at boot, it was unlikely to disappear while the system was operating.
Those days are far behind us, though; devices can come and go at any time,
often with no notice.
That impermanence can create challenges for kernel
code, which may not be expecting resources it is managing to make an abrupt
exit.
The revocable
resource management patch set from Tzung-Bi Shih is meant to help with
the creation of more robust — and more secure — kernel subsystems in a
dynamic world.
Full Story (comments: 3)
[$] Multiple kernels on a single system
[Kernel] Posted Sep 19, 2025 19:14 UTC (Fri) by corbet
The Linux kernel generally wants to be in charge of the system as a whole;
it runs on all of the available CPUs and controls access to them globally.
Cong Wang has just come forward with a different
approach: allowing each CPU to run its own kernel.
The patch set is in
an early form, but it gives a hint for what might be possible.
Full Story (comments: 49)
[$] Blender 4.5 brings big changes
[Development] Posted Sep 19, 2025 13:55 UTC (Fri) by rolandixor
Blender 4.5 LTS was released
on July 15, 2025, and will be supported through 2027. This is the last
feature release of the 3D graphics-creation suite's 4.x series; it
includes quality-of-life improvements, including work to bring the Vulkan backend up to
par with the default OpenGL backend. With 4.5 released, Blender
developers are turning their attention toward Blender 5.0, planned for
release later this year. It will introduce substantial changes,
particularly in the Geometry
Nodes system, a central feature of Blender's procedural
workflows.
Full Story (comments: none)
[$] Extending the time-slice-extension discussion
[Kernel] Posted Sep 18, 2025 15:30 UTC (Thu) by corbet
Time-slice extension is a proposed scheduler feature that would allow a
user-space process to request to not be preempted for a short period while
it executes a critical section.
It is an idea that has been circulating
for years, but efforts to implement it became
more serious in February of this year.
The latest developer to make an
attempt at time-slice extension is Thomas Gleixner, who has posted a new patch set
with a reworked API.
Chances are good that this implementation is close to
what will actually be adopted by the kernel.
Full Story (comments: 7)
LWN.net Weekly Edition for September 18, 2025
Posted Sep 18, 2025 0:06 UTC (Thu)
The LWN.net Weekly Edition for September 18, 2025 is available.
Inside this week's LWN.net Weekly Edition
Front: Fighting human trafficking; End of 10; Link tags; Healthy subsystem communities; New kernel tools; Rust and Carbon; Typst.
Briefs: Brief news items from throughout the community.
Announcements: Newsletters, conferences, security updates, patches, and more.
Read more
Cuni: Tracing JITs in the real world @ CPython Core Dev Sprint
[Development] Posted Sep 25, 2025 19:13 UTC (Thu) by jake
Longtime PyPy developer Antonio Cuni has a
lengthy
blog post that describes his talk at the recently completed
2025
CPython
Core Dev Sprint, held at Arm in Cambridge, UK.
The talk, entitled
"Tracing JIT and real world Python — aka: what we can learn from PyPy" was
meant to try to pass on some of his experiences "optimizing existing
code for PyPy at a high-frequency trading firm" to the
developers working on the CPython JIT compiler.
His goal was
to raise awareness of some of the problems he encountered:
Until now CPython's performance has been particularly predictable, there are well established "performance tricks" to make code faster, and generally speaking you can mostly reason about the speed of a given piece of code "locally".
Adding a JIT completely changes how we reason about performance of a given program, for two reasons:
JITted code can be very fast if your code conforms to the heuristics applied by the JIT compiler, but unexpectedly slow(-ish) otherwise;
the speed of a given piece of code might depend heavily on what
happens elsewhere in the program, making it much harder to reason about
performance locally.
The end result is that modifying a line of code can significantly impact seemingly unrelated code. This effect becomes more pronounced as the JIT becomes more sophisticated.
Cuni also gave a talk on Python performance, which LWN covered, at
EuroPython 2025 in July.
Comments (none posted)
Fedora considers an AI-tool policy
[Distributions] Posted Sep 25, 2025 16:43 UTC (Thu) by corbet
The Fedora project has posted a
proposal for a policy regarding the use of AI tools when developing for
the distribution.
You are responsible for your contributions. AI-generated
content must be treated as a suggestion, not as final code or
text. It is your responsibility to review, test, and understand
everything you submit. Submitting unverified or low-quality
machine-generated content (sometimes called "AI slop") creates an
unfair review burden on the community and is not an acceptable
contribution.
Comments (1 posted)
Four stable kernels released
[Kernel] Posted Sep 25, 2025 14:58 UTC (Thu) by jake
The 6.16.9, 6.12.49, 6.6.108, and 6.1.154 stable kernels have been released.
As usual, they all contain important fixes throughout the kernel tree.
Comments (none posted)
Security updates for Thursday
[Security] Posted Sep 25, 2025 14:39 UTC (Thu) by jake
Security updates have been issued by AlmaLinux (grub2 and kernel), Debian (chromium and libxslt), Fedora (chromium, expat, libssh, and webkitgtk), Oracle (avahi, firefox, ImageMagick, kernel, libtpms, and mysql), Red Hat (kernel), SUSE (bird3, expat, kernel, and tiff), and Ubuntu (dpkg, gnuplot, linux, linux-aws, linux-aws-5.15, linux-gcp, linux-gcp-5.15, linux-gke, linux-gkeop, linux-hwe-5.15, linux-ibm, linux-ibm-5.15, linux-intel-iotg, linux-intel-iotg-5.15, linux-lowlatency, linux-lowlatency-hwe-5.15, linux-nvidia, linux-nvidia-tegra, linux-nvidia-tegra-5.15, linux-oracle, linux-raspi, linux-riscv-5.15, linux-xilinx-zynqmp, linux, linux-aws, linux-gcp, linux-gcp-6.14, linux-oracle, linux-realtime, linux-riscv, linux-riscv-6.14, linux-aws-fips, linux-fips, linux-gcp-fips, linux-azure, linux-azure-fips, linux-ibm, linux-ibm-6.8, linux-intel-iot-realtime, linux-realtime, linux-oem-6.14, linux-oracle-5.15, linux-realtime-6.14, and python-eventlet).
Full Story (comments: none)
PostgreSQL 18 released
[Development] Posted Sep 25, 2025 14:08 UTC (Thu) by jzb
Version
18 of the PostgreSQL database has been released. Notable
improvements in this release include "skip scan" lookups for
multicolumn B-tree indexes, virtual
generated columns, better text processing, oauth
authentication, and a new asynchronous I/O (AIO) subsystem to improve
performance:
AIO lets PostgreSQL issue multiple I/O requests concurrently instead
of waiting for each to finish in sequence. This expands existing
readahead and improves overall throughput. AIO operations supported in
PostgreSQL 18 include sequential scans, bitmap heap scans, and
vacuum. Benchmarking has demonstrated performance gains of up to 3x in
certain scenarios.
There are, of course, many other improvements and changes; see the
release
notes for full details.
Comments (none posted)
Security updates for Wednesday
[Security] Posted Sep 24, 2025 13:18 UTC (Wed) by jzb
Security updates have been issued by AlmaLinux (kernel and kernel-rt), Fedora (expat), Red Hat (kernel and multiple packages), SUSE (avahi, busybox, busybox-links, kernel, sevctl, tcpreplay, thunderbird, and tor), and Ubuntu (isc-kea, linux, linux-aws, linux-gcp, linux-gke, linux-gkeop, linux-lowlatency, linux-lowlatency-hwe-6.8, linux-aws-6.8, linux-gcp-6.8, linux-aws-fips, linux-nvidia, linux-nvidia-6.8, linux-nvidia-lowlatency, linux-realtime, python-pip, and rabbitmq-server).
Full Story (comments: none)
Open Infrastructure is Not Free: A Joint Statement on Sustainable Stewardship
[Development] Posted Sep 23, 2025 15:25 UTC (Tue) by jake
The Open Source Security Foundation
(OpenSSF) has put together a joint statement from many of the public
package repositories for various languages about the need for assistance in
maintaining these commons.
Services such as PyPI for Python, crates.io for Rust, and many others are
working together to try to find ways to sustain these services in the face
of challenges from "automated CI systems, large-scale dependency
scanners, and ephemeral container builds" all downloading enormous
amounts of package data, coupled with the rise of generative and agentic AI
"driving a further explosion of machine-driven, often wasteful automated
usage, compounding the existing challenges".
It is not a crisis, yet,
they say, but it is headed in that direction.
Despite serving billions (perhaps even trillions) of downloads each month (largely driven by commercial-scale consumption), many of these services are funded by a small group of benefactors. Sometimes they are supported by commercial vendors, such as Sonatype (Maven Central), GitHub (npm) or Microsoft (NuGet). At other times, they are supported by nonprofit foundations that rely on grants, donations, and sponsorships to cover their maintenance, operation, and staffing.
Regardless of the operating model, the pattern remains the same: a small number of organizations absorb the majority of infrastructure costs, while the overwhelming majority of large-scale users, including commercial entities that generate demand and extract economic value, consume these services without contributing to their sustainability.
Comments (40 posted)
Security updates for Tuesday
[Security] Posted Sep 23, 2025 14:21 UTC (Tue) by jake
Security updates have been issued by Debian (corosync and kernel), Fedora (checkpointctl, chromium, curl, and perl-Catalyst-Authentication-Credential-HTTP), SUSE (firefox, frr, kernel, rustup, vim, and wireshark), and Ubuntu (glibc and pam).
Full Story (comments: none)
RPM 6.0.0 released
[Development] Posted Sep 22, 2025 18:37 UTC (Mon) by jzb
Version 6.0.0 of the RPM Package Manager has been released. Notable changes in this release include support for multiple OpenPGP signatures per package, the ability to update previously installed PGP keys, as well as support for RPM v4 and v6 packages. See the release notes for full details.
Full Story (comments: 5)
Security updates for Monday
[Security] Posted Sep 22, 2025 13:59 UTC (Mon) by jake
Security updates have been issued by Debian (ffmpeg, jetty12, jetty9, jq, and pam), Fedora (curl, libssh, podman-tui, and prometheus-podman-exporter), Oracle (firefox, gnutls, kernel, and thunderbird), and SUSE (bluez, cairo, chromium, cmake, cups, firefox, frr, govulncheck-vulndb, kernel, kubevirt, virt-api-container, virt-controller-container, virt-exportproxy-container, virt-exportserver-container, virt-handler-container, virt-launcher-container, virt-libguestfs-t, mariadb, mybatis, ognl, python-h2, and rke2).
Full Story (comments: none)
--> More news items
Copyright © 2025, Eklektix, Inc.
Comments and public postings are copyrighted by their creators.
Linux
is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds