Understanding motherboard QVL: A guide to RAM compatibility
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Understanding motherboard QVL: A guide to RAM compatibility
By
Joe Rice-Jones
Published Sep 4, 2025
Maker, meme-r, and unabashed geek, Joe has been writing about technology since starting his career in 2018 at KnowTechie. He's covered everything from Apple to apps and crowdfunding and loves getting to the bottom of complicated topics. In that time, he's also written for SlashGear and numerous corporate clients before finding his home at XDA in the spring of 2023.
He was the kid who took apart every toy to see how it worked, even if it didn't exactly go back together afterward. That's given him a solid background for explaining how complex systems work together, and he promises he's gotten better at the putting things back together stage since then.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When looking for a new motherboard, especially if you haven't built a new PC for a while, it's only natural to research as many aspects as possible. After all, we've all had buyer's remorse at some point, and getting the right components the first time isn't always easy. And the parts with the most potential not to be compatible are the RAM kit we chose.
In retrospect, it isn't hard to see why this is the most challenging part to choose. DDR memory has always been complicated, and it's even more so now that frequencies have skyrocketed with DDR5. The interplay between your motherboard, CPU, and RAM combines to set the maximum frequency you can get, whether you hit
XMP or EXPO overclocks, how much voltage your RAM needs to be stable, and many other essential things. To help with this, motherboard manufacturers put together a Qualified Vendor List with compatible CPUs and RAM kits tested on that motherboard. But this is still just a list of what worked at one point, and should be treated as a suggestion list rather than the gospel.
What is a QVL anyway, and where can I find it?
Time to check the product page for your specific motherboard
Motherboard manufacturers put together a QVL or Qualified Vendor List as they release new hardware, and it shows the combinations of CPU and RAM that have been tested and worked on that motherboard at the time. In a perfect world, they would list every RAM module on the market and update it as new kits or BIOS updates are released. But in reality, that rarely happens in my experience, and those lists are a good starting point at launch, but can be less valuable as time goes on.
Here's a prime example I know well about because it's the computer I'm typing this from. The QVL for the Asus ROG Crosshair X670E Hero might have my CPU on it, and has some of the RAM kits that I've used over the years, but it doesn't have the Teamgroup 8,000 MT/s kit that I'm using currently. It also hasn't been updated for a while, but that's not that unsurprising, as this motherboard came out a long time ago, and updates to documentation are rare as time goes on. But when I first got the motherboard, it was a handy thing because I didn't know much about the board and its particular quirks of support and overclocking potential, and I also didn't know much about DDR5. A handful of BIOS updates later, and RAM compatibility has matured to the point where I'm reasonably confident that any two-module kit I install will get the full EXPO speed, with minimal tweaking on my part.
What to look for as well
Reviews, Reddit, and recommendations go a long way
Once you've decided on a motherboard, RAM is often the next choice to make. Whether you know how many gigabytes you need, or want fast speeds and tight timings, you'll want to know that the kit you pick will be compatible with your motherboard. If you plan on using them
at JEDEC defaults, almost any kits will work, even in the early stages after the motherboard release. If you want more performance, the QVL is certainly a good place to start, but it should be a starting point only.
The QVL only says that the CPU, RAM, and motherboard combination worked at the time of testing. It doesn't usually account for subsequent BIOS updates or new RAM kits, and the same combination of hardware can still have incompatibility issues on another system because of minor differences in the manufacturing stages.
Many factors go into the QVL choices. Often, they're put together from kits the manufacturer had on hand for testing, and don't necessarily represent the state of the market, or the wide choice of kits on offer. They don't continually get updated during the motherboard's lifetime, although CPU compatibility usually gets updated as those are released infrequently. I still use the QVL to begin with, to find a kit with the capacity, frequency, and timings that I want, and then I read some reviews of that kit. I'll also search on Reddit, other social media, and some of the bigger forums to see if anyone is having issues with that kit. I don't tend to worry that much if it's not being tested on the same motherboard. While that affects the maximum frequency you can run a particular kit, it's been a while since I had booting issues. I'll also see which RAM manufacturers are being mentioned, whether for issues or for perfect running, and which manufacturers are doing a good job overall at the time. I've found this helpful, especially at the release of a new generation of CPUs or motherboards, because it's not guaranteed that the kit I picked from the QVL will be in stock, and I want to have other options ready just in case. I hate waiting to order components, and I'm pretty sure I'm not alone.
Motherboard QVLs are less useful as time goes on
To be absolutely clear, I'm not saying don't read the QVL or that it's useless. It can be very handy, but it's only a tool, and tools are meant to be used appropriately. Buying a RAM kit that's not on the QVL might be more of a gamble when the motherboard is new, but less so once it's been on the market for a few months, as
BIOS updates will have cleared up most of the compatibility issues. Treat the QVL as a starting point before you go to PCPartPicker or look for other builds with the motherboard you want to use, and you'll have a better chance of a smooth PC build.
Other Hardware
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
The scariest 2D game I've ever played is at its lowest price on Steam, just in time for October
Sep 10, 2025
You, too, can build this awesome foam dart shooting gallery with an ESP32
Sep 9, 2025
I created legendary magic items for D&D 5e using AI, and the results were terrifying
Sep 10, 2025
This open-source RGB software replaced all my bloated brand apps, and I couldn’t be happier
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
14 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This triple-A open-world FPS with 87% positive reviews is just $4.49 on Steam for a limited time
Proxmox hookscripts are the best automation feature you're not using
Someone tried to host a web server inside Portal 2, and it actually works
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.