These are the 3 must-own PlayStation 5 accessories you'll want for your console
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
These are the 3 must-own PlayStation 5 accessories you'll want for your console
By
Jakejames Lugo
Published Sep 1, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Source: Unsplash
The PlayStation 5 is the latest and greatest console on the market from Sony right now. But while the console itself is powerful and has a library of great titles to play through, new PlayStation 5 owners will want to get extra accessories for their console to better their overall experience. Although there are a variety of accessories for PlayStation hardware available in many places, not all of them are necessary and will just have you spending extra money. However, there are a few PS5 accessories that everyone will want to pick up when they can, especially if they want to get the most enjoyment from playing games on it. The best accessories for any video game console are the ones that enhance the experiences that players want to engage with. They make everything somehow better, rather than doing things that ultimately don't matter, such as adding on extra hardware for no reason or making things difficult for a person to use their console. Here are three must-own PlayStation 5 accessories that you'll want to look into picking up for your own console.
Internal SSD
Appreciating the extra space
No matter what platform you prefer or the types of games you like to play often, everybody has to deal with the problem of having enough space to download things. Storage space is a universal problem that often happens across any video game console. At some point, you'll have to either delete the games you have saved on your console, or go to the store to pick up an external hard drive. But rather than lose out on games you enjoy having readily available, or dealing with extra cables for storage devices, it's smarter to just get a larger internal SSD that you can install into a PlayStation 5. There are many different options for SSD that you can purchase online or at retail. But the important thing to keep in mind is to get an internal SSD that is compatible with the PlayStation 5. Beyond that, it's just a matter of how much extra space you want to have available. If you're someone who downloads a lot of very large games from PlayStation Network, such as games like Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 or The Last of Us: Part 1, then you'll want a lot of space. These kinds of drives can have anywhere from 1TB of space or up to 4TB of space, with some models having a range of options for the amount of storage memory needed. Those who just have a few select titles for their console, or download smaller games often, will be totally fine with 1TB of extra space. More storage memory is always a good thing, especially when you don't want to delete a few older games in order to be able to download a new one. It makes things more convenient.
DuelSense Edge Wireless Controller
Better control over everything
The PlayStation 5 DuelSense controller is a solid piece of hardware as is, but some parts of it are improved with the DuelSense Edge Wireless Controller from PlayStation. The easiest comparison to make for this controller would be the Xbox Elite Controller, which has many similar features and applications. The DuelSense Edge has customizable buttons, adjustable triggers and stick caps, and back buttons that can be mapped to different inputs, and is compatible with all models of the PlayStation 5, including the PS5 Pro. This is the type of controller for someone who loves to play competitive games, where quick reactions are everything and can be the slight difference between victory and defeat. Most competitive first-person shooter players, for games like Call of Duty: Warzone and Marvel Rivals, enjoy using controllers that offer a combination of extra comfort and competitive edge. The controller also has the ability to switch between personal profiles quickly, for when you want to play in a different setting for different games. These kinds of changes can be done on the fly by saving settings onto the controller and hitting a button to toggle between them. This matters for those who spend time finding the ideal adjustments for controls and how interacting with a game can feel with various settings. You might want to have one option for all of your shooter games and another for every fighting game you own, while still having one available for when you want to keep things more casual for other titles in your PS5 library.
Source: PlayStation
Although the DuelSense Edge Wireless Controller is more expensive than a standard DuelSense Controller, the extra functionality is well worth the higher price tag. Those who won't find themselves playing games that could take advantage of the extra buttons on the DuelSense Edge may be better off sticking with the standard PS5 controller for now. But if you're going to spend more money on any kind of PlayStation 5 accessory where you can feel where the money is going towards, then the DuelSense Edge is worth the extra investment.
DuelSense Charging Station
Staying energized
Source: (YouTube) VintageDealsUK
Like with any other console with a wireless controller, having enough power is vital to playing for a long time. Most consoles, including the PlayStation 5, come with USB cables to connect to the system and charge your controllers. This is standard for every company that releases a home console on the market. But having an accessory that minimizes the amount of cables you have around and makes it easier to quickly charge your controllers after use is a good idea. This is why the DuelSense Charging Station is a good item to pick up for anyone that owns a PlayStation 5. This charging station for the PS5 controller can charge up to two DuelSense controllers at a time, and doesn't need to have multiple USB cables plugged into the console. It plugs directly into a wall outlet, so you can display it nearby or away from your console if needed. This is good for anyone that cares about space management with their gaming setup, or simply wants to make things look nicer without having so many cables around. The official PlayStation DuelSense Charging Station is also not that expensive, making it a good purchase if you're thinking about getting additional charging cables or have other people visiting with their own controllers to charge.
Source: (reddit) steegsa
However, the charge time is the same as if you plugged the standard cable into a DuelSense controller. The same thing can be said if you did so with a DuelSense Edge Wireless Controller, which may be important to some people. Other controller docks from third-party companies have differences in their design and charging times, but will also have varying price points and degrees of quality about them. This charging station is officially made by PlayStation and is pretty cheap in comparison. If you're going to spend any money on a charging station, you're better off getting the one officially available for the PS5.
Good accessories for PS5 owners
If you've just picked up a PlayStation 5, or are thinking about getting one soon, then you'll definitely want to consider any one of these accessories for it. Rather than wasting money on expensive items that may not always be useful, or offer a premium result for their premium price, it's smarter to keep things simple. The best accessories for any console owner are the ones that you'll often use and will make playing a game on your PlayStation 5 or PlayStation 5 Pro even better. Saving money along the way and spending wisely on them is just the icing on the cake.
Gaming
PlayStation 5
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Jordon Patrick
Jordon Patrick
Jordon Patrick
#SF514638
Member since 2025-09-01
0
Threads
1
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Until games give us additional inputs for these pro controllers theyre pointless.
Just being able to duplicate a button to the extra new buttons isnt good enough.
I dint want 2 buttons that do the same thing.
If you give me a controller with additional inputs over the base controller then those additional inputs need to be new unique buttons that can map additional commands to, not just replicate the button press of another button.
Otherwise, why am I buying it?
2025-09-01 17:02:07
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
3 surprising things you can repurpose laptop batteries for
6 days ago
Forget Apple's Awe Dropping event: someone just recovered 54 lost iPod clickwheel games, and it's the 2000s again
6 days ago
The scariest 2D game I've ever played is at its lowest price on Steam, just in time for October
5 days ago
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
Today's best deals
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
18 minutes ago
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
7 hours ago
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
We loved these dinosaur games and want to see them return on current day consoles
This free tool might finally tell you why your PC is suddenly slowing down
8 incredible platformers you can play for free today on Steam
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.