Could I use a dynamic function to match values to another sheet in Google Sheets? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Could I use a dynamic function to match values to another sheet in Google Sheets? [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
4 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
74 times
-2
Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.
Want to improve this question? As written, this question is lacking some of the information it needs to be answered. If the author adds details in comments, consider editing them into the question. Once there's sufficient detail to answer, vote to reopen the question.
Closed yesterday.
Improve this question
I'm making a quiz-type thing with Google Sheets- one as the user-end (where the quiztaker would input answers) and one as the answersheet. What I want to do is have a function in conditional formatting to see if the value in Cell B2, for instance, is equal to the value in Cell B2 of the answersheet.
Quiz on user-end
Quiz answer sheet
Unlike the example shown in these screenshots, though, the actual quiz will be very large and I wouldn't want to go around pasting functions for EVERY SINGLE CELL. The end formula should see if Quiz(Current Cell No.) = Answersheet(Current Cell No.)
At first, I tried a series of functions to find the current cell's letter-number coordinates, which worked completely fine. =LEFT(ADDRESS(1,COLUMN(),4)) & ROW() and =SUBSTITUTE(ADDRESS(1, COLUMN(), 4), "1", "") & ROW() both worked perfectly in finding letter-number coordinates of the current cell.
But I still needed a way to reference that cell, but in another sheet. '=Answersheet'!B2 could nicely find me the value of B2 (in the answersheet), but '=Answersheet'!(LEFT(ADDRESS(1,COLUMN(),4)) & ROW()) returned a formula parse error. I couldn't get on to trying to find how to compare the values because I'm still stuck at this step.
Meanwhile, I'll just dawdle around and finish that project due tomorrow.
functiongoogle-sheetsgoogle-sheets-formula
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited Sep 17 at 14:53
bunniebunnie
asked Sep 17 at 14:53
bunniebunnie
333 bronze badges
New contributor
bunnie is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
2
1
Welcome to StackOverflow! Please provide a minimal reproducible example in the form of markdown tables containing your sample input data and desired output. You may create one with the help of this link.
Jats PPG
–
Jats PPG
2025-09-17 15:08:25 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 15:08
Have you considered creating a form instead of sharing a spreadsheet for collecting answers?
doubleunary
–
doubleunary
2025-09-18 17:24:54 +00:00
Commented
Sep 18 at 17:24
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
2
You just need INDIRECT() function. Try-
=INDIRECT("'Answersheet'!"&LEFT(ADDRESS(1,COLUMN(),4)) & ROW())
But, why not you use XLOOKUP() function to get answer from answersheet against particular question?
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered Sep 18 at 2:10
Harun24hrHarun24hr
37.7k66 gold badges2323 silver badges4747 bronze badges
Comments
Add a comment
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
functiongoogle-sheetsgoogle-sheets-formula
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Related
0
Google Sheets referencing values from another sheet using dynamic value calculated in current sheet
106
How to address the current cell in conditional format custom formula?
0
Search values in multiple sheets in google sheet
0
Google Sheets - How to retrieve a value from a range in one sheet to use in a formula on another sheet?
1
Google Sheets Conditional formatting based on another sheet
0
Is it possible to use Address and Match functions inside another formula in order to find a column by name on another sheet?
0
In Google sheets use Value from a Cell ( retrieved with =MATCH ) to get Information from another sheet
0
Google Sheets, Trying to reference a cell in another sheet using a formula to determine the row number
1
Google Sheets dynamic formula to fetch sheet names and sum cell values across multiple sheets
0
Finding a sum of cells given address range in another tab of google sheet file using importrange
Hot Network Questions
possible counter example to the following claim (power sets of topological spaces)
Validity of assuming the integral of a vanishing integrand over an infinitely large surface is equal to zero
Can I ask to postpone publication after acceptance?
Time is to eternity as space is to what?
Rigid Body not working properly. Tied to an older dup (since baked)
How do I Lock a Car from the Outside with no Key
Prospective new PI wants to chat with former PI who kicked me out. What to do?
Interpretation of slope coefficient when a variable appears in multiple powers
What is this circuit breaker on the outside of my house for?
ConTeXt: label of theorem environment not correct
Do the Matrix movies take place in our present or our future?
"Lex lata" in coin inscription
Question on simple causal modeling
What is the practical impact of recognising another state?
Which transistors combination is best for a non-inverting 3.3V - 24V level shifter?
Removing a file from a Debian package without removing the existing file on upgrade
What's the PC used in "American Kickboxer"?
What percentage of the town drinks liquor?
How did "hospital" lose its first syllable in some languages?
Are rats in the house considered a good omen because a rat/mouse is vahan of Ganesh ? How can rat infestation be a good omen?
Who I am so that they hate me even when I tell them it is already dead?
What species of plum is this? (France, mid-September)
Check whether a binary tree is symmetric
In Much Ado About Nothing, why aren't the lines: "...live in THINE heart ... buried in THINE eyes"? (V.2.102-3)
more hot questions
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211