The Invincible TTRPG blends bloody battles, superhero banter, and personal drama
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Free League Publishing has devised rules for witty banter and bloody fights
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
By
Samantha Nelson
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Invincible
Related
0:37
Blackstar is the '80s cartoon that needs a reboot
6 days ago
Peacemaker just added fuel to my game-changing theory about Eagly
6 days ago
Xbox even more expensive after second price hike in 6 months
5 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Todd Nauck/Matt Herms/Skybound via Polygon
Robert Kirkman’s coming-of-age superhero comic series Invincible ran for 15 years, and its rich and dark world is currently the basis of a hit animated series on Prime Video. Now you can step into it yourself and battle supervillains before rushing off to high school in the Invincible – Superhero Roleplaying game from Free League Publishing, which launches a Kickstarter campaign on Sept. 23. “The thing that stands out to me as so ideal for adapting [Invincible] to a tabletop role-playing game is the idea of progression,” Invincible – Superhero Roleplaying designer and D&D Beyond founder Adam Bradford told Polygon in a Zoom call. “Whereas in other continuities of comics there are just these endless reboots and retcons [...] Invincible has a beginning, a middle, an end. It tells this whole story over 144 issues.” Invincible follows Mark Grayson, a high school student who takes on the mantle of Invincible after he inherits incredible powers from his alien father, Omni-Man. Mark and many of Invincible’s other characters change a lot over the course of the series, picking up new skills, honing their abilities, and shifting their worldview and priorities. In turn, Invincible players will be able to improve their powers and talents as they gain experience from completing missions. They’ll also need to find time between battles to focus on their personal relationships with social scenes that also allow characters to recover from the stress they experienced when fighting.
Image: Free League/Skybound
“You have to balance your everyday life with your superhero persona,” Invincible – Superhero Roleplaying designer and Free League co-founder Tomas Härenstam told Polygon. “I think it’s very much part of Invincible and [Invincible’s] own story where he has school, his parents, his girlfriend, and all his other friends in school and has to balance that with being a superhero. That’s something we try to build heavily into the game by having these social scenes that explore your character individually between the action scenes.” Invincible – Superhero Roleplaying uses the Year Zero engine that serves as the basis for several other Free League games such as Blade Runner: The Roleplaying Game and Alien: The Role-Playing Game. The ruleset is designed for high-stakes, story-driven games. One of the ways the designers tried to embody the feel of Invincible is with a critical hit table that fits the series’ gore-soaked battles that make it stand out from other superhero comics. Depending on the severity of the hit, options range from a character’s costume getting torn to their head getting smashed in. “It was a challenge, but also a fun one to make it feel like not only a superhero game, but the Invincible superhero game. That means it’s darker, it’s bloodier,” Härenstam said. “It’s not like The Boys where every superhero is just inherently horrible, but it still does turn some of the tropes on their head.”
Image: Free League/Skybound
Bradford and Härenstam also wanted to make sure the game included some of the lighter elements of Invincible, so they created a system for banter where characters can mock their opponents to weaken their resolve. “Sometimes you’ll play with players and groups where they’re going to throw in the banter whether you want them to or not,” Bradford said. “This is a big part of superhero comics, it’s a big part of Invincible, and this is a way to kind of mechanically incentivize that and prompt players that this is a viable option while you’re in combat because this is going to help you capture that feel.” [Ed. note: The rest of this article contains major spoilers for early arcs of Invincible] While Free League plans to release Invincible – Superhero Roleplaying at Gen Con 2026, players can get a taste of it immediately by downloading a free quickstart adventure. The story is set shortly after Omni-Man kills his former allies, the Guardians of the Globe, and reveals that he had been sent to Earth to conquer the planet. Omni-Man badly injures Invincible in a fight and then flees the planet.
Image: Free League/Skybound
With the world’s greatest heroes gone, the player characters have the chance to make a real difference. While the full game will include numerous powers and talents to let players create their own heroes, the quickstart provides character sheets for Invincible heroes, including Atom Eve, Monster Girl, and Rex Splode. Each has their own role in combat: Eve controls the battlefield by erecting barriers, while Monster Girl uses her great strength and toughness to defend her allies. “We want to showcase the fact that you’re playing a team of superheroes,” Härenstam said. “It made sense in the quick start to have nobody playing Invincible himself so everyone is on the same sort of level playing field.” The quickstart pits the heroes against the cloning superscientists, the Mauler Twins. It takes about an hour to play through and is the first chapter in the Metro Mayhem introductory adventure that will be included in a starter set along with dice, maps, and cardboard character standees.
Image: Todd Nauck/Matt Herms/Skybound
Invincible’s long run has given Bradford and Härenstam plenty of material to work with. The Kickstarter includes stretch goals for a pair of digital bonus adventures – one focused on Atlantis and the other on the Gotham-like Midnight City. The designers also have ideas for campaign frameworks that will focus on street-level stories in the vein of Daredevil, or big cosmic adventures. The books and starter set are packed with art from the Invincible comics by Cory Walker and Ryan Ottley. The stretch goal Bradford is most excited about is a limited run of Invincible #1 with a cover inked by Todd Nauck (Invincible Universe) and colored by Matt Herms (Sonic the Hedgehog) that depicts Mark playing Invincible – Superhero Roleplaying with his mom Debbie, his half-brother Oliver, and Eve. “As a huge comic book fan, Invincible is my favorite series,” Bradford said. “I believe I have every variant cover for Invincible #1 so it’s going to be another one that I will proudly add to the collection if we can unlock it.”
Tabletop Games
Comics
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
New Palworld game is a cozy farming sim, gives Pals chainsaws
4 days ago
This anime fight is one of the best of all time, but not for the reason you might think
4 days ago
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle taught me not every anime can become a movie
2 days ago
Amid Jimmy Kimmel backlash, Disney’s Star Wars trailer looks like a Jedi mind trick
More from our brands
The Invincible War, Explained
Is ‘Invincible’ Getting A Season 4? Here’s What We Know
Everything We Know About the Invincible: Battle Beast Spinoff
'Invincible' Season 3 Release Schedule
The Strongest Characters in Invincible: Ranking the Viltrumites
Upcoming Free-To-Play Games People Are Excited For
Invincible’s 10 Best Villains, Ranked
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
PSA: You have 1 week to claim these free shiny Legendary Pokémon in Scarlet and Violet
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.