The 51 Best Shows on Netflix Right Now (September 2025) | WIREDSkip to main contentMenuSECURITYPOLITICSTHE BIG STORYBUSINESSSCIENCECULTUREREVIEWSMenuAccountAccountNewslettersSecurityPoliticsThe Big StoryBusinessScienceCultureReviewsChevronMoreExpandThe Big InterviewMagazineThe New Era of Business TravelEventsWIRED InsiderWIRED ConsultingNewslettersPodcastsVideoMerchSearchSearchSign InSign InMatt Kamen WIRED StaffCultureSep 20, 2025 7:00 AMThe 51 Best Shows on Netflix Right NowBlack Rabbit, Wolf King, and Wednesday are just a few of the shows you need to watch on Netflix this month.FacebookXEmailSave StoryStill from Black Rabbit.Courtesy of NetlfixCommentLoaderSave StorySave this storyCommentLoaderSave StorySave this storyStreaming services are known for having award-worthy series but also plenty of duds. Our guide to the best TV shows on Netflix is updated weekly to help you know which series you should move to the top of your queue. They aren’t all surefire winners—we love a good less-than-obvious gem—but they’re all worth your time, trust us.Feel like you’ve already watched everything on this list that you want to see? Try our guide to the best movies on Netflix for more options. And if you’ve already completed Netflix and are in need of a new challenge, check out our picks for the best shows on Hulu and the best shows on Disney+. Don’t like our picks or want to offer suggestions of your own? Head to the comments below.If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more.Black RabbitThe Black Rabbit is on its way to being New York’s hottest restaurant, an ultra-cool eatery that’s one glowing New York Times review away from blowing up. Proprietor Jake Friedken (Jude Law) has poured everything into it—so it’s the absolute worst time for his screw-up brother Vince (Jason Bateman) to crawl back into his life. On the run from a hit-and-run in Reno, and with long-standing debts to the mob hanging over him, Vince’s reappearance threatens to drag Jake down, and pushes brotherly love to lethal limits. Created by writers Zach Baylin and Kate Susman, this eight-episode limited series blends The Bear and Breaking Bad into a deliciously tense thriller that leaves you wanting a second course.Watch on NetflixWolf KingBased on the Wereworld books by Curtis Jobling, this animated fantasy adventure follows young farmer Drew (Cel Spellman), whose life is thrown into chaos when he learns he’s actually the hidden son of the lost Wolf King. Being the Wolf King's hidden son means he's also the last threat to the rule of King Leopold, the werelion who has stolen the throne. Joined by reluctant allies Whitley (Nina Barker Francis) and Hector (Chris Lew Kum Hoi), Drew is thrust into a quest to master his lupine powers and claim the crown he’s destined for—if they can evade Leopold’s forces. While the animation style won’t be for everyone—a pseudo-stop-motion approach—Wolf King will capture fans of Avatar: The Last Airbender and The Dragon Prince, and its balance of swords and sorcery and savage werebeasts gives it just enough bite for parents and older viewers.Watch on NetflixLong Story ShortAdult animation is awash with family sitcoms—The Simpsons, Family Guy, Bob’s Burgers, on and on—but they’re all stuck in the perma-present, mixing outlandish events with a never-changing status quo. Not so for Long Story Short, the latest series from BoJack Horseman creator Raphael Bob-Waksberg. The show follows the thoroughly pedestrian antics of the Schwoopers, jumping between the 1950s and 2020s as it does so. As it ricochets through the lives of parents Naomi and Elliot, and their children Avi, Shira, and Yoshi, it proves itself as a series that balances finding comedy in the mundane—from chaotic bar mitzvahs to anniversaries-turned-interventions—with Waksberg’s penchant for the poignant woven throughout, all brought to life by a fantastic voice cast including Ben Feldman, Abbi Jacobson, and Nicole Byer. Already renewed for a second season, this is one story Netflix hasn’t cut short.Watch on NetflixHostageWith the UK in the midst of a health crisis, prime minister Abigail Dalton (Suranne Jones) is keen to strike a deal for medicine from French president Vivienne Toussaint (Julie Delpy)—standard politics, until Dalton’s husband Alex (Ashley Thomas), a doctor working with Medicins san Frontieres, is kidnapped in French Guiana. With the kidnappers demanding the PM’s resignation, the professional and the personal dangerously blur, while a conspiracy threatens Toussaint’s own position. Tense and masterfully paced, and with striking performances from Jones and Delpy, this five-episode limited series is an excellent political thriller to binge.Watch on NetflixWednesdayAfter spending the summer honing her psychic powers by tracking down serial killers, Wednesday Addams (Jenna Ortega) returns to Nevermore Academy—but this school year is more of an Addams Family reunion. With her mother, Morticia (Catherine Zeta-Jones), drawn into an onsite committee role by suspicious new principal Barry Dort (Steve Buscemi), brother Pugsley (Isaac Ordonez) joining the school after developing electric powers, and eccentric Grandmama (Joanna Lumley) turning up, Wednesday barely has a chance to investigate a new string of murders or a conspiracy surrounding a shady psychiatric hospital. The perils of the show’s protracted three-year gap between seasons is hard to overlook in places—Pugsley now towers over Wednesday, explained as a growth spurt, and you’ll almost certainly need to rewatch the first season to remember what’s going on—but this is a welcome return for Netflix’s spooky, ooky teen drama.Watch on NetflixLove, Death + RobotsDeveloped by Deadpool director Tim Miller, Love, Death + Robots is one of Netflix’s most exciting animated offerings—an anthology series where the only common thread is each episode’s unique interpretation of that eponymous trio of themes. Now in its fourth season, viewers are treated to wild concepts that include psychic street gangs in a postapocalyptic future (400 Boys), a re-creation of the Red Hot Chili Peppers’ Live at Slane Castle performance of “Can’t Stop” in marionette form (directed by David Fincher, no less), and, in a rare hybrid of live action and CGI, a priest (played by Rhys Darby) meeting an alien envoy that thinks God has been reborn as an Earth dolphin. Wildly experimental, Love, Death + Robots constantly juggles animation styles and genres and practically vibrates off the screen with sheer visual energy. You never know what you’re going to get with this show—and that’s half the fun.Watch on NetflixSneaky PeteJust released from prison, Marius (Giovanni Ribisi) steals the identity of former cellmate Pete Murphy in order to hide from the dangers of his old life. On the run from a vicious gangster played by Bryan Cranston (who also jointly created the show), Marius nestles in with Pete’s motley crew of estranged family. They're delighted to be reunited with their long-lost relative, but he finds taking over another man’s life might be even more dangerous than the past he’s running from. Originally an Amazon Prime series, this three-season drama can now be binged in its entirety on Netflix.Watch on NetflixGrace and FrankieThe brainchild of Friends cocreator Marta Kauffman, this sharp sitcom sees Jane Fonda and Lily Tomlin as the titular Grace and Frankie, longtime acquaintances forced into living together after their husbands leave them late in life—for each other. The show follows this contemporary odd couple as they deal with their ex-husbands' coming out, their adult children's drama, and each other's maddening personalities, all while building a genuine friendship and trying to prove to themselves and the world that age is just a number. Taking cues from Arrested Development, Grace and Frankie's chief comedic currency is awkwardness, as their two extended families—the rich, business-minded Hansons and the borderline hippy Bergsteins—bring their neuroses and baggage to bear while navigating adult familial relationships. Think of it as a modern-day Golden Girls—just with more swearing and drug use.Watch on NetflixSakamoto DaysTaro Sakamoto used to be the worst of the worst, a hitman par excellence, his lethal skills making him a legendary figure in the criminal underworld. Then he fell in love, got married, and retired to run a convenience store with his wife Aoi and their daughter Hana. Unfortunately, he didn't exactly leave his old job on the best of terms, and now a cadre of killers are out for the billion yen bounty on his head. Luckily, Sakamoto's lost none of his skills—even though he's let himself go in other areas—but can he protect his family without breaking Aoi's strict "no killing" rule? Based on the manga by Yuto Suzuki, this comedy action anime is a blast. Now into its second season, with new episodes dropping each Monday, it's appointment viewing you won't want to miss.Watch on NetflixSweet ToothBased on the comic book by Jeff Lemire, Sweet Tooth kicks off 10 years after “The Sick,” a viral pandemic that killed most of the population and led—somehow—to babies being born with part-human, part-animal characteristics. The series follows Gus (Christian Convery), a half-deer hybrid boy who leaves the wilderness in search of his mother, and “Big Man” Tommy Jeppard (Nonso Anozie), a grizzled traveler who becomes his reluctant guide, protecting him from surviving humans who hate and fear the hybrids. Over the course of three seasons, Gus and Jeppard are drawn into conflict with scientist Aditya Singh (Adeel Akhtar), whose research into the origins of The Sick sees him take on an almost religious obsession with Gus, all while tensions mount between the increasingly diverged species of humans and hybrids. Part sci-fi, part fantasy, part mystery, Sweet Tooth offers viewers a postapocalyptic dystopia unlike any other.Watch on NetflixSquid GameThe Korean sensation that became a global phenomenon, Squid Game’s blend of Hunger Games’ shocking elimination battles and Parasite’s condemnation of exploitative capitalism turned it into one of Netflix's biggest-ever hits. It started off simply enough—hundreds of desperate people recruited to compete in a series of playground games with a deadly twist, the survivor winning a ₩45.6 billion ($35.8 million) jackpot. But now, with its third and final season, the stakes are higher than ever, and even perennial survivor Seong Gi-hun (Lee Jung-jae) might not be able to win this round. Intense, brutal, and frequently graphic, Squid Game remains gripping to the very end.Watch on NetflixTrainwreckLittle else is as fascinating as a real-life disaster born of sheer hubris. The strange mix of “saw that one coming” and “get the popcorn,” as you watch events unfold makes for captivating viewing. That's the special sauce for Trainwreck, Netflix's series of documentaries exploring some of the biggest, well, train wrecks of recent history. From the crack-cocaine-fueled tenure of Toronto's disgraced mayor Rob Ford to the avoidable errors that saw a luxury cruise liner turned into an infamous “poop cruise,” each installment is a fascinating exploration of how badly things can go wrong when the wrong people are in charge. Netflix oddly categorizes each Trainwreck as its own movie, but it's really a loosely connected anthology, and while some cases require their own multi-episode arcs to excavate the wreckage (shoutout to Woodstock ’99), there's no particular starting point—simply pick your favorite screw-up and just try to look away.Watch on NetflixThe SurvivorsYears ago, Kieran Elliott (Charlie Vickers) survived a storm that trapped him in a sea cave, but his brother Finn and friend Toby died in the rescue attempt. Fifteen years later, he returns to his hometown with his partner Mia (Yerin Ha) and their baby Audrey for a memorial, finding that everyone from neighbors to his own mother still blame him for the tragedy. While those deaths still haunt the small town community, they may also have obscured another tragedy—teenager Gabby Birch went missing the same night. Now, out-of-town investigator Bronte (Shannon Berry), the only person who still cared about the long-cold case, has wound up dead herself, and everyone in Kieran's life seems to be connected. Adapted from the novel by Jane Harper, this Australian murder mystery from Glitch creator Tony Ayres is a darkly compelling miniseries.Watch on NetflixGlitchTo those in the northern hemisphere, this Australian supernatural drama might be one of the best-kept secrets of the past decade. Centered on a small town in Victoria, an entire community is shaken when seven people rise from their graves, seemingly in perfect health but with no memory of who they are or how they died. As police sergeant James Hayes (Patrick Brammall) and local doctor Elishia McKellar (Genevieve O'Reilly) try to contain and examine “The Risen,” Hayes’ world is rocked when he learns his own late wife Kate is among them. Over the course of three seasons and 18 episodes, the reasons for the dead's return is teased out, starting with simply “how” and “why” but building up to something that questions the rules of reality. A fantastic ensemble cast and brilliant pacing make this a must-see.Watch on NetflixDept. QEdinburgh police detective Carl Morck (The Crown's Matthew Goode) used to be one of the best—until his arrogance got his partner paralyzed and a uniformed officer killed, and saw him narrowly survive a bullet through his own neck. After returning to work following a lengthy period of mandatory leave, Morck finds himself heading up the new Department Q—an underfunded, under-staffed operation in the precinct's dank basement, dedicated to solving the iciest of cold cases. Gathering a team of misfits, including Rose (Leah Byrne), eager to please but recovering from a breakdown, Akram (Alexej Manvelov), a Syrian refugee, and Morck's still-bedbound partner James (Jamie Sives), the department has a lot to prove—but solving the disappearance of Merritt Linguard (Chloe Pirrie) might be a good start. Based on the novels by Danish author Jussi Adler-Olsen, Dept. Q is a brilliant blend of Scandi noir and gritty British crime drama.Watch on NetflixSirensFirst The White Lotus, then The Perfect Couple, and now Sirens—Meghann Fahy is making a career out of starring in shows where we get to see awfully rich people doing awfully bad things to each other. Here, she plays down-on-her-luck Devon, drawn into the luxurious world her sister Simone (Milly Alcock, imminently Supergirl) inhabits by proxy, working as an assistant to billionaire's wife Michaela (Julianne Moore). It's never clear how willingly Simone got involved with the charismatic Michaela, who may be a mentor or cult leader or something else entirely, nor how overprotective or paranoid Devon is, but the hook of this glossy, dark comedy is in finding out.Watch on NetflixThe EternautJuan Salvo (Ricardo Darín) was settling in for a card game with his friends. Then the snow started falling—unusual enough for Buenos Aires in the summer, and downright terrifying when everyone touched by the freak weather event drops dead. But as Salvo desperately tries to find his daughter and ex-wife among the few survivors, an even deeper horror emerges. Adapted from a beloved Argentinian comic book by Héctor Germán Oesterheld and Francisco Solano López, The Eternaut offers a unique piece of postapocalyptic drama, focusing on grounded, authentic characters before spinning off into wilder sci-fi directions.Watch on NetflixBlood of ZeusThis adult animated take on Greek mythology returns for its third and final season, bringing the odyssey of demigod Heron—son of Zeus and mortal woman Electra—to a brutal conclusion. After years of manipulation, power plays, and betrayals, the season picks up with the Olympian gods and their Titan predecessors lined up against each other, the fate of the world hanging on the outcome of the ultimate family feud. Heron and his estranged brother Seraphim may be the only ones able to bring peace—so it's rather inconvenient that Heron is dead. From start to finish, Blood of Zeus has impressed with smart writing that offers compelling twists on the classic myths, all brought to life with top-tier animation and phenomenal voice acting, and it doesn't disappoint as it reaches its finale. One of Netflix's best animated series.Watch on NetflixYouBased on the novels of Caroline Kepnes, You is an often deeply disturbing series. During the first season, bookstore manager Joe Goldberg (Penn Badgley) falls in deranged-love-at-first-sight with aspiring author Guinevere Beck (Elizabeth Lail). In subsequent ones, he relocates to Los Angeles, where heiress Love Quinn (Victoria Pedretti) became the focus of his attention, and then to London, where he poses as an unassuming university professor before meeting his match in Kate Galvin (Charlotte Ritchie). At each turn, the globe-hopping saga of murderous obsession has become more and more unsettling. In the fifth and final season, Joe returns to New York with his new wife, Kate, but the darkness and brutality that's followed him around the world is never far behind. Often shocking, You is a gripping thriller that hits the same sinister sweet spot as early (read: good) seasons of Dexter.Watch on NetflixThe Four SeasonsThree couples—lovebirds Kate and Jack (Tina Fey and Will Forte), glamorous Danny and Claude (Colman Domingo and Marco Calvani), and fraying Nick and Anne (Steve Carrell and Kerri Kenney-Silver)—have known each other since college, maintaining their decades-long friendship with a series of regular vacations together. But when Nick finally splits with Anne—who was about to surprise him with a vow renewal—the group's dynamic completely changes. It sounds like the premise for a depressing drama, but The Four Seasons is instead a surprisingly life-affirming comedy, bolstered by fantastic performances across-the-board. A loose adaptation of the 1981 movie of the same name, this eight-episode miniseries—cocreated by Fey—sometimes takes things in more farcical, physical comedy directions, but maintains a charming sense of warmth and humanity throughout.Watch on NetflixBlack MirrorBlack Mirror returns with six new episodes that continue to explore humanity’s complicated relationship with technology. Although the new, seventh season includes a couple of rare sequels to previous Black Mirror episodes, the anthology format means every episode remains accessible. That means you can jump right in with the heartbreaking “Eulogy,” where Paul Giamatti's Phillip dives through his own fractured memories of a lost lover. Or you can start with the sinister “Plaything,” in which a gaming journalist gets murderously obsessed with a strange life-sim game, partly inspired by series creator Charlie Brooker’s own background. (In a very meta twist, you can play the game for real.) Whether you’re a longtime fan or this is your first encounter with poignant tech dystopias, all of Black Mirror awaits your viewing.Watch on NetflixNorth of NorthYoung Inuk woman Siaja (Anna Lambe, True Detective: Night Country) married straight out of high school, then spent years trapped in the shadow of her shallow, selfish husband, Ting—the golden boy of their small town of Ice Cove, nestled far in the Arctic Circle. A brush with death—and possibly the goddess Nuliajuk—gives her the push to make a fresh start, but an explosive breakup in a community of only 2,000 people means Siaja’s personal life is now everyone’s business. Netflix’s first Canadian original series, this sharp sitcom is packed with warmth and humor, while its on-location shooting in Iqaluit (the real-life capital of the Arctic Canadian territory of Nunavut) delivers breathtaking natural beauty along with the laughs.Watch on NetflixDevil May CryBuilding on the success of Castlevania, Netflix’s take on Capcom’s Devil May Cry series continues the streamer’s strong track record of animated video game adaptations. For those who've never picked up a controller, the series follows half-demon devil hunter Dante, a stylish slayer with a penchant for slicing up hell's worst offenders. This eight-episode spectacular sees Dante (voiced by Johnny Yong Bosch) clashing with the horrific White Rabbit (Hoon Lee), a twisted monster aiming to tear down the barrier between Earth and hell. Animation fans will also appreciate one of the final performances from the venerable, sadly-passed Kevin Conroy as the villainous US Vice President Baines. Devil May Cry may be unashamedly in love with its own early 2000s origins—as evidenced by a soundtrack filled with songs from the likes of Limp Bizkit and Papa Roach—but this slickly animated action masterpiece is a hellishly good time.Watch on NetflixAdolescenceA quiet English town. 6 am. Police raid the house of Jamie Miller on suspicion of murdering an innocent girl. Jamie is 13 years old. A shocking mini-series, this isn't a whodunit, but a whydunit. Its four episodes—each masterfully shot in a single real-time take—explore how boys are radicalized online to hate women, and the horrifying effects it has. The powerhouse cast includes cocreator and writer Stephen Graham (Bodies, A Thousand Blows) as Jamie's father Eddie, Ashley Walters (Bulletproof) as Detective Boscombe, the arresting officer and investigator of Jamie's crime, and Erin Doherty (The Crown) as the psychologist evaluating Jamie. Each brings this incredibly difficult material to life, but it's newcomer Owen Cooper as Jamie who most astounds, turning from petrified to cheeky to vitriolic in a terrifying heartbeat. Adolescence is harrowing but important viewing.Watch on NetflixPantheonOriginally an AMC+ show, both seasons of Pantheon are now available on Netflix. Good timing too, since its nightmarish scenario of digitally uploaded human consciousnesses and exploration of the impact such technology would have on society feels worryingly prescient. With plot threads weaving between isolated Maddie Kim, whose dead father may have been reborn as an “Uploaded Intelligence,” Caspian Keyes, a genius teenager whose entire life is a Truman Show–style lie, and Vinod Chanda, an engineer investigating UI, this hard sci-fi outing—based on the short fiction of Ken Liu—offers a dark examination of virtual immortality. A uniquely brilliant adult animated series.Watch on NetflixZero DayCards on the table: A significant part of the appeal here is seeing the iconic Robert De Niro in his first major English-language TV role (he previously appeared in the Argentinian Nada, aka Nothing). He doesn't disappoint with his performance as former US president George Mullen—pulled out of retirement to oversee a commission investigating a colossal cyberattack that left thousands of Americans dead and the terrifying warning that "this will happen again"—commanding the screen with his trademark gravitas. Director Lesli Linka Glatter wrings great drama from the whodunit of it all (Russians? hackers? hedge fund bros?), but with Mullen handed unprecedented powers to track down the culprits, the real nail-biting moments come from its suddenly timely explorations of abuses of power. With a powerhouse cast that includes Angela Bassett, Lizzy Caplan, and Jesse Plemons, Zero Day is an engaging political thriller, and at six episodes it makes for a great binge-watch.Watch on NetflixApple Cider VinegarInfluencers have been known to hawk nonsense diets and spurious “wellness” regimens, but few have ever done it like Belle Gibson, the real-life Australian influencer who went as far as faking brain cancer for attention. And while she hailed alternative diets and whole foods for keeping her nonexistent illness at bay—launching an app and cookbook in the process—actual cancer sufferers paid the price for her extreme narcissism and greed. This dramatized limited series—“a true-ish story … based on a lie,” as Netflix puts it—makes for uncomfortably gripping viewing as it charts the rise and fall of Gibson (Kaitlyn Dever, with a flawless Aussie accent) and her rivalry with Milla Blake (Alycia Debnam-Cary), a fellow influencer and actual cancer patient. Better than doomscrolling reels on Instagram or TikTok, and a reminder that everyone should be a lot more skeptical of anything influencers are shilling on social media.Watch on NetflixThe Night AgentSpecial agent Peter Sutherland (Gabriel Basso) is back, and the stakes have never been higher. While the first season of The Night Agent wove a compelling spy drama out of the idea of a mole at the heart of America's intelligence services, the newly arrived second season takes a more global approach—Sutherland hunts down a stolen chemical weapon project, drawing him back into the orbit of tech savant and sometime love interest Rose Larkin (Luciane Buchanan), while Iranian diplomatic aide Noor Taheri (Arienne Mandi) offers secrets to the CIA in return for asylum, and a deposed Eastern European dictator aims to manipulate everything from behind bars. Sure, the show’s mix of politics and spook work won’t surprise genre diehards, but it weaves together its many influences—and many more plot threads—into a supremely entertaining thriller.Watch on NetflixAsuraThe four Takezawa sisters are close but have little in common. Eldest Tsunako (Rie Miyazawa) is already a widow; repressed Takiko (Yû Aoi) and rebellious Sakiko (Suzu Hirose) are always at each other's throats; and second-born Makiko (Machiko Ono) tries to balance keeping the peace with being a housewife and mother to her own two children. Yet when Takiko learns that their father Kotaro (Jun Kunimura) may have a second, secret, family, the sisters’ bonds are put to the test as they struggle to uncover the truth. Asura is far more than a turgid family drama—it's equal parts heartwarming and hilarious, capturing the complexities of the relationships between its quartet of protagonists. Keeping the 1970s setting of Kuniko Mukōda’s original novel allows Palme d’Or– winning director Hirokazu Kore-eda (Shoplifters) to craft a gorgeously shot period piece that still feels incredibly timely and modern.Watch on NetflixJentry Chau vs the UnderworldYou know the drill—everyday teenager learns she has superpowers and is destined to fight the forces of darkness. Except Jentry Chau (voiced by Ali Wong) is not like any other teenage girl—she’s known about the supernatural her whole life (her uncontrollable fire powers were a giveaway) and spent a lifetime avoiding it. Sent to study in Korea for her own safety, Jentry is drawn back into the mystic world after being attacked in Seoul by a jiangshi named Ed (Bowen Yang). Brought back to her home in Texas by her great-aunt, Jentry has to survive not only the formidable mogui Mr. Cheng, who intends to drain her soul and powers, but the horrors of high school, culture shock, and the pain of her own past. Taking the “high school is hell” metaphor of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, adding a dash of Gravity Falls’ mystery, and rooting it all in Asian mythology, Jentry Chau vs the Underworld is one of Netflix’s freshest animated shows in years.Watch on NetflixNo Good DeedTake Selling Sunset and add a grisly tragicomic twist and you just about have No Good Deed. A dark comedy from Liz Feldman, creator of Dead to Me, this eight-part series starts with Lydia and Paul Morgan (Lisa Kudrow and Ray Romano) putting their gorgeous home on the market, and descends into darker territory as prospective buyers go to ever more desperate attempts to get their hands on the house, nosy neighbors interfere, and the grisly history of the house itself threatens to come to light. Buoyed by a stellar cast including Teyonah Parris, Abbi Jacobson, Luke Wilson, and Denis Leary, this is a glossy, witty, and possibly only slightly exaggerated take on the brutality of the Los Angeles property market.Watch on NetflixA Man on the InsideThe latest show from comedy mastermind Michael Schur (The Good Place, Parks and Recreation, Brooklyn Nine-Nine), A Man on the Inside features Ted Danson as Charles Nieuwendyk, a retired engineering professor who's lost all direction since his wife passed. But when private investigator Julie Kovalenko (Lilah Richcreek Estrada) needs a man of his demographic to go undercover in a retirement community to investigate allegations of resident abuse, Charles may find an unlikely new lease on life—if he can figure out how to use his smartphone, that is. Reflecting on end-of-life realities as much as it plays up Charles' fish-out-of-water situation, it's a show that's equal parts poignant, melancholic, and achingly funny—and it's based on a true story, to boot.Watch on NetflixBlack DovesHelen Webb (Keira Knightley) is wife to the UK defense secretary, mother to two children, and bored with her picture-perfect life. Spectacular cover then, since she's actually a spy for the mercenary organization Black Doves, selling state secrets to the highest bidder. But when her real love Jason (Andrew Koji) is killed, Helen is determined to find out who killed him and why—and her pursuit of the truth threatens both her public and private lives. Paired with assassin and old friend Sam (Ben Whishaw, in a very different spy role to his turn in the James Bond films) at the behest of stern operator Mrs. Reed (Sarah Lancashire), Helen's obsession could have led to a dour, gritty thriller, but Black Doves bucks the grim-dark trend to serve up a pulpy, colorful outing with enough heart to balance its violence. At only six episodes (with a second season already confirmed), it's a brisk watch too.Watch on NetflixArcaneAnimated series based on video games can run the gamut from cheap cash-ins to half-decent if forgettable tie-ins, inaccessible to anyone but hardcore devotees. Yet Arcane stood out by making its connections to Riot Games' League of Legends almost optional. While its central figures, orphaned sisters Vi and Jinx, are playable characters in the game, this steampunk saga of class war, civil uprising, and the people caught in between is entirely accessible. The second and final season, released in a trio of movie-length blocks of three episodes apiece, escalates the conflict between the warring factions but never loses its central focus on the fractured relationship between sisters. With a gorgeous painterly art style, strong characters, and frequently shocking story beats, Arcane is one of the best animated series in years—and it has racked up plenty of awards, including a Primetime Emmy for Outstanding Animated Program, to prove it.Watch on NetflixCobra KaiPicking up decades after Daniel LaRusso and Johnny Lawrence’s iconic fight at the end of the first Karate Kid movie, Cobra Kai initially follows a washed-up Johnny as he reopens the Cobra Kai karate dojo, finding new purpose after defending his young neighbor Miguel (Xolo Maridueña, Blue Beetle) in a fight. Over the course of six seasons, the stakes get higher—and frankly, increasingly, gloriously, ludicrous—as rival martial arts schools start cropping up all over California. Alliances are forged and broken with alarming regularity, and everything gears toward a global battle for karate supremacy. It’s all a little bit tongue-in-cheek, and with Ralph Macchio and William Zabka reprising their 1980s roles, the show is an unabashed love letter to the classic action flicks, but thanks to some seriously impressive fights and stunt work, it’s a retro-styled delight.Watch on NetflixHeartstopperOne of the most joyful shows on Netflix returns for another school year of teen drama and heartfelt queer romance. In the long-awaited third season, things heat up between the central couple, with Charlie (Joe Locke) preparing to say three little words to Nick (Kit Connor) for the first time, while Elle (Yasmin Finney) and Tao (William Gao) try to have the perfect romantic summer before Elle starts art college. Heartstopper's return also sheds some of its earlier cloying tendencies, growing up alongside its talented young cast and giving them more serious material to work with, tackling more mature themes of sex, eating disorders, and gender dysphoria—all without losing the warmth and charm that made audiences fall in love with the show in the first place. The show younger LGBTQ+ viewers need now, older ones needed years ago, and one that everyone needs to watch, whatever their sexuality.Watch on NetflixThe Boyfriend"Anyone can fall in love with anyone" is the opening narration to The Boyfriend, Japan's first same-sex dating show—a bold and progressive statement that reflects the shifting tide of opinion in the country. Throwing nine single men together in an idyllic beach house for a summer and charging them with running a coffee truck, the over-arching concept is to see who'll pair up, but the series is as interested in exploring the friendships that emerge between the cast as it is the romantic relationships. Unlike Western dating shows, there are no scandals, no dramatic twists, no betrayals, and the “challenges” are adorably focused on confessing feelings. The gentleness of it all adds an almost relaxing quality, with the men discussing their emotions—and the nature of being queer in Japan—earnestly. An absolutely joyful example of reality TV.Watch on NetflixKleoIf you’re pining for more Killing Eve, then this German thriller may be the next best thing. Set in the late 1980s and early 1990s, the series follows the eponymous Kleo (Jella Haase), a Stasi assassin imprisoned by her agency on false treason charges. Released after the fall of the Berlin Wall, she seeks revenge on her former handlers—but West German detective Sven (Dimitrij Schaad), the only witness to her last kill, may have something to say about that. As dark and violent as you'd expect given the period and the themes of betrayal and vengeance, Kleo is lightened by its oft-deranged sense of humor and a charismatic lead duo who brilliantly bounce off one another—chemistry that's only heightened in the second season as Kleo's pursuit of her old allies intensifies, attracting attention from international spy agencies in the aftermath of the Cold War.Watch on NetflixSweet HomeBased on the Korean webcomic by Kim Carnby and Hwang Young-chan, Sweet Home offers a very different vision of apocalyptic end times—rather than pandemics, disasters, or even zombies, this posits an end of the world brought about by people's transformation into grotesque monsters, each unique and seemingly based on their deepest desires when they were human. The first season is a masterclass in claustrophobic horror, as the residents of an isolated, run-down apartment building—chiefly suicidal teen Cha Hyun-su (Song Kang), former firefighter Seo Yi-kyung (Lee Si-young), and Pyeon Sang-wook (Lee Jin-wook), who may be a brutal gangster—battle for survival. The second and third seasons explore what remains of the wider world, delving into the true nature of both monster and man—and if there's any hope for what remains of humanity. With phenomenal effects work blending prosthetics, CGI, and even stop-motion animation for some disturbingly juddering creatures, this stands apart from the horror crowd.Watch on NetflixStar Trek ProdigyParamount+'s loss remains Netflix's gain, as the streamer's license rescue of this great Star Trek spin-off warps into its second season. After escaping a distant prison planet and becoming Starfleet cadets under the watchful eye of Star Trek Voyager's Admiral Janeway (voiced by the venerable Kate Mulgrew), the ragtag crew—led by aspiring captain Dal R'El and bolstered by astrolinguist Gwyndala, engineer Jankom Pog, energy being Zero, scientist Rok-Tahk, and indestructible, gelatinous Murf—find themselves cast through time on the most dangerous mission of their young lives. While aimed at younger audiences and intended as an intro to the wider Trek universe and its ethics, Prodigy packs in plenty for older Trekkers to appreciate, particularly with a slate of returning Star Trek legends voiced by their original actors. Prodigy is something of a sleeper hit, but one of the best Trek shows in years.Watch on NetflixSupacellOne by one, five Black Londoners awaken to strange superpowers. Struggling father Andre (Eric Kofi-Abrefa) develops superstrength, nurse Sabrina (Nadine Mills) unleashes phenomenal telekinetic might, drug dealer Rodney (Calvin Demba) races at superspeed, and wannabe gang leader Tazer (Josh Tedeku) turns invisible. But it's Michael (Tosin Cole, Doctor Who) who may be the most pivotal, realizing he can leap through time and space and learning he only has three months to save his fiancée's life. Created by Andrew “Rapman” Onwubolu, Supacell is a show about superpowers, but not necessarily superheroes, with its fantastic cast offering up a far more realistic and human exploration of now-familiar ideas than anything you'll find in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. And the mystery of why—and how—only Black people seem to be gaining powers builds up to a more powerful punch than an Asgardian god of thunder. A smart, modern, and refreshing take on the genre.Watch on NetflixThe Good PlaceAfter suffering an improbable and humiliating death, Eleanor (Kristen Bell) finds herself in “The Good Place,” a perfect neighborhood inhabited by the world's worthiest people. The only problem? She's not meant to be there. Desperate to not be sent to “The Bad Place,” she tries to correct her behavior in the afterlife, with the help of her assigned soulmate, philosophy professor Chidi (William Jackson Harper). A twist at the end of the first season remains one of the best ever, while the show's ability to sprinkle ethical and philosophical precepts into a sitcom format is frankly astounding. With a sensational cast rounded out by Manny Jacinto, Jameela Jamil, D'Arcy Carden, and Ted Danson, The Good Place more than earns its place in the good place of TV history.Watch on Netflix3 Body ProblemIn 1960s China, at the height of the Cultural Revolution, gifted scholar Wenjie Ye witnesses her physicist father being beaten to death for his research, only for her to be recruited to a secret project relying on that same knowledge. Fast-forward to the present day, and physics is broken: Particle accelerators around the world are delivering impossible data, while scientists are being plagued by countdowns only they can see. Meanwhile, strange VR headsets appear to be transporting players to an entirely different world—and humanity’s continued existence may rely on there being no “game over.” Game of Thrones’ creators D. B. Weiss and David Benioff and True Blood executive producer Alexander Woo reimagine Chinese author Cixin Liu’s acclaimed hard sci-fi trilogy of first contact and looming interplanetary conflict as a more global affair. Wildly ambitious, and boasting an international cast featuring the likes of Benedict Wong, Rosalind Chao, Eiza González, and GOT alum John Bradley, Netflix's 3 Body Problem serves up the opening salvo in a richly detailed and staggeringly complex saga.Watch on NetflixRipleyPerhaps best known nowadays from 1999’s The Talented Mr. Ripley starring Matt Damon, novelist Patricia Highsmith’s inveterate criminal Tom Ripley has a longer, darker legacy in print and on the screen. For this limited series, creator Steven Zaillian goes back to Highsmith's original text, presenting Ridley (a never-more-sinister Andrew Scott of All of Us Strangers) as a down-on-his-luck con man in 1950s New York who is recruited by a wealthy shipbuilder to travel to Italy and persuade the businessman’s spoiled son Dickie Greenleaf (Johnny Flynn) to return home. But once in Italy, Ripley finds himself enamored with Dickie's lavish lifestyle—and will do anything to take it for himself. Shot in black and white to really sell its noir credentials, this is an instant contender for the finest interpretation of Highsmith's works to date.Watch on NetflixBeefEver been cut off in traffic? Ever had it happen when you’re having a really bad day? Ever just wanted to take the low road, chase the person down and make them pay?! Then—after a few deep breaths—Beef is the show for you. It's a pressure valve for every petty grievance you’ve ever suffered, following rich Amy (Ali Wong) and struggling Danny (Steven Yeun) as they escalate a road rage encounter into a vengeance-fueled quest to destroy the other. Yet Beef is more than a city-wide revenge thriller—it's a biting look at how crushing modern life can be, particularly in its LA setting, where extravagant wealth brushes up against inescapable poverty and seemingly no one is truly happy. Part dramedy, part therapy, Beef is a bad example of conflict resolution but a cathartic binge watch that clearly resonates—as evidenced by its growing clutch of awards, including the Golden Globe for Best Limited Series.Watch on NetflixLoudermilkSomething of a sleeper hit for years—its first two seasons debuted on AT&T's now-defunct pay TV channel Audience in 2017, before its third season appeared over on Amazon—all three seasons of this bleak comedy are now available on Netflix. Ron Livingston stars as Sam Loudermilk, a vitriolic former music critic and recovering alcoholic who proves almost pathologically incapable of holding his tongue when faced with life's small frustrations—a personality type possibly ill-suited to leading others through addiction support groups. It's dark in places, and its central character is deliberately unlikeable, but smart writing and smarter performances shape this into something of an acerbic anti-Frasier.Watch on NetflixScott Pilgrim Takes OffAdapted from the beloved graphic novel series by Bryan Lee O'Malley, animated by one of the most exciting and dynamic studios in Japan, and voiced by the entire returning cast of director Edgar Wright's 2010 live-action adaption, Scott Pilgrim Takes Off would have been cult gold even if it was a straight retelling of its eponymous slacker's battles against lover Ramona Flowers' seven evil exes. Yet somehow, in a world devoid of surprises, this packs in killer twists from the very first episode, making for a show that's as fresh and exciting as ever. Saying anything else would ruin it—just watch.Watch on NetflixBlue Eye SamuraiIn the 17th Century, Japan enforced its "sakoku" isolationist foreign policy, effectively closing itself off from the world. Foreigners were few and far between—so when Mizu (voiced by Maya Erskine) is born with blue eyes, nine months after her mother was assaulted by one of the four white men in the country, it marks her as an outsider, regarded as less than human. Years later, after being trained by a blind sword master and now masquerading as a man, Mizu hunts down those four men, knowing that killing them all is the only way to guarantee her vengeance. Exquisitely animated—which makes its unabashed violence all the more graphic—and with a phenomenal voice cast bolstered by the likes of George Takei, Brenda Song, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, and Kenneth Branagh, Blue Eye Samurai is one of the best adults-only animated series on Netflix.Watch on NetflixPending TrainNetflix: License one of Japan’s best SF dramas in years. Also Netflix: Do nothing, literally nothing, to promote it, not even create an English subbed trailer. Which is where WIRED comes in—Pending Train is a show you (and Netflix) shouldn’t sleep on. When a train carriage is mysteriously transported into a post-apocalyptic future, the disparate passengers’ first concern is simply survival. Between exploring their new surroundings and clashing with people from another stranded train car over scarce resources, one group—including hairdresser Naoya, firefighter Yuto, and teacher Sae—begins to realize that there may be a reason they’ve been catapulted through time: a chance to go back and avert the disaster that ruined the world. A tense, 10-episode journey, Pending Train offers a Japanese twist on Lost, but one with tighter pacing and showrunners who actually have a clue where they want the story to go.Watch on NetflixOne PieceMark one up for persistence: After numerous anime adaptations ranging from “awful” to “not too bad,” Netflix finally strikes gold with its live-action take on the global phenomenon One Piece. Despite fans’ fears, this spectacularly captures the charm, optimism, and glorious weirdness of Eiichiro Oda’s beloved manga, manifesting a fantasy world where people brandish outlandish powers and hunt for a legendary treasure in an Age of Piracy almost verbatim from the page. The perfectly cast Iñaki Godoy stars as Monkey D. Luffy, would-be King of the Pirates, bringing an almost elastic innate physicality to the role that brilliantly matches the characters rubber-based stretching powers, while the crew Luffy gathers over this first season—including swordsmaster Roronoa Zoro (Mackenyu), navigator and skilled thief Nami (Emily Rudd), sharpshooter Usopp (Jacob Romero Gibson), and martial artist chef Sanji (Taz Skylar)—all brilliantly embody their characters. A lot could have gone wrong bringing One Piece to life, but this is a voyage well worth taking.Watch on NetflixThe Chosen OneBased on the comic American Jesus by writer Mark Millar (Kick-Ass, Kingsman) and artist Peter Gross (Lucifer), The Chosen One follows 12-year-old Jodie (Bobby Luhnow), raised in Mexico by his mother Sarah (Dianna Agron). While the young boy would rather hang out with his friends, his life—and potentially the world—changes forever when he starts exhibiting miraculous powers, attracting dangerous attention from sinister forces. While this could have been yet another formulaic entry in Netflix's expansive library of supernatural teen dramas (the Stranger Things vibe is particularly strong), the decision to shoot on film and in a 4:3 aspect ratio make this a visual delight, unlike almost anything else on the streamer at present. There's an English dub, but stick to the original Spanish with English subs for a better viewing experience. (Confusingly, there's another show with the exact same title on Netflix, a 2019 Brazilian series following a trio of relief doctors in a village dominated by a cult leader—also worth a watch, but don't get them confused!)Watch on NetflixCommentsBack to topTriangleYou Might Also Like …In your inbox: Will Knight's AI Lab explores advances in AITesla's trillion-dollar bet that it's more than just carsBig Interview: Hasan Piker will never run for officeThe doomers who insist AI will kill us allWatch: Uncanny Valley live with Jack Conte, CEO of PatreonMatt Kamen is a freelance journalist specializing in media, video games, and technology coverage. Beyond WIRED, his work can be found in The Guardian, Empire, and elsewhere. ... Read MoreXTopicsCulture GuidesTVNetflixstreamingTelevisionRead MoreThe 51 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowDevo, Little Evil, and Ziam are just a few of the movies you should watch on Netflix this month.The 50 Best Shows on Hulu Right NowOnly Murders in the Building, Tempest, and Alien: Earth are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Hulu this month.The 39 Best Shows on Apple TV+ Right NowThe Morning Show, Slow Horses, and Platonic are among the best shows on Apple TV+ this month.The 44 Best Movies on Hulu This WeekSister Midnight, John Wick, and Jennifer’s Body are just a few of the movies you need to watch on Hulu right now.The 50 Best Shows on HBO Max Right NowPeacemaker, Ruby & Jodi: A Cult of Sin and Influence, and The Gilded Age are just a few of the shows you need to be watching on HBO Max this month.The 55 Best Shows on Disney+ Right NowLimitless, Ironheart, and Hurricane Katrina: Race Against Time are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Disney+ this month.The 35 Best Movies on HBO Max Right NowFriendship, Final Destination Bloodlines, and Sinners are just a few of the movies you should be watching on HBO Max this month.The 25 Best Shows on Amazon Prime Right NowBallard, Butterfly, and The Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Amazon Prime Video this week.The 29 Best Movies on Apple TV+ Right NowHighest 2 Lowest, Echo Valley, and Snoopy Presents: A Summer Musical are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Apple TV+ this month.The 23 Best Movies on Amazon Prime Right NowAmerican Fiction, Heads of State, and Air are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Amazon Prime Video this week.The 65 Best Movies on Disney+ Right NowThunderbolts*, Sacramento, and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Disney+ this month.Onion CEO Ben Collins Hasn't Given Up on Print—or Buying InfowarsA year after relaunching The Onion as a newspaper, Collins visits Uncanny Valley to talk about why “going into something and not ruining it is bravery.”WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.SubscribeNewslettersTravelFAQWIRED StaffWIRED EducationEditorial StandardsArchiveRSSAccessibility HelpReviewsBuying GuidesMattressesElectric BikesSoundbarsStreaming GuidesWearablesTVsCouponsGift GuidesAdvertiseContact UsManage AccountJobsPress CenterCondé Nast StoreUser AgreementPrivacy PolicyYour California Privacy Rights© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad ChoicesSelect international siteUnited StatesLargeChevronItaliaJapónCzech Republic & SlovakiaFacebookXPinterestYouTubeInstagramTiktok