Forza Horizon 6 set in Japan, will launch first on Xbox with PS5 later
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Microsoft's next open-world racer will come to PS5 'post-launch'
Forza Horizon 6 will finally bring the series to Japan in 2026 — on Xbox first
By
Oli Welsh
Published 18 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
'Anime GTA' game Ananta also lifts from Spider-Man to be the uber-open-world RPG
3 days ago
Why Alien: Earth's creator isn't worried about a season 2 renewal
2 days ago
Stranger Things season 5 will have more action and special effects than ever before
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Image: Playground Games/Xbox Game Studios
Microsoft has revealed that the next Forza Horizon game will finally be taking the series' open-world racing festival to a much-anticipated destination — Japan — in Forza Horizon 6, due in 2026. The announcement was made during Xbox's Tokyo Game Show 2025 broadcast via a brief teaser trailer. In the trailer, the camera pans past license plates and souvenirs from previous Forza Horizon locations before resting on a vista showing Mount Fuji across a lake, framed by cherry blossom. No gameplay details were revealed; in a post on Xbox Wire, art director Don Arceta said that more would be shown of the game in "early 2026." In footnotes on the teaser trailer's YouTube upload and on the Xbox Wire post, Microsoft said that Forza Horizon 6 will be available first on Xbox Series X and PC in 2026, with a PlayStation 5 version coming "post-launch." In the Xbox Wire post, Arceta and cultural consultant Kyoko Yamashita discussed the research work that's gone into building the game's Japanese location. Without revealing much, they mentioned that the map will include Tokyo city, including its elevated road system — "one of our most detailed and layered environments to date," according to Arceta — as well as rural and mountain areas, including Mount Fuji. Naturally, Japan's car culture will be represented; "Kei cars and vans with cult followings, precision motorsport, drifting’s roots, and their passion for customization really stands out," Yamashita said. And Arceta confirmed that the seasonal changes of the last two games will return. A big draw of the Forza Horizon games is the virtual tourism of real-world destinations they offer on their artfully compressed maps. Fans have wishfully assumed the series' next location would be Japan ever since 2012's original Forza Horizon, which was set in the U.S. state of Colorado. But Playground Games has consistently defied fans' expectations, taking the roving festival to the Mediterranean coast of Italy and France, then to Australia, then to the developer's native Britain, and most recently to Mexico in 2021's Forza Horizon 5. The five-year gap between the releases of that game and Forza Horizon 6 will be by far the longest in the series' history; Playground has been busy with its long-gestating reboot of Fable, also due next year. But the series' popularity has continued to grow in that time, and the recent PlayStation 5 version of Forza Horizon 5 is one of the best-selling PS5 games this year. Not bad for a series that started as a spinoff of the Forza Motorsport circuit-racing games. Motorsport developer Turn 10 was gutted in a recent round of layoffs, and is now believed to be working mostly as a support studio on Forza Horizon. So there was little doubt that the 2026 Forza game, teased by Phil Spencer at the Xbox Games Showcase in June, would be a new Horizon. But fans now finally have confirmation that it's coming — and heading where they most wanted it to.
News
Gaming
Xbox
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
Baldur's Gate 3 is easier to play on your Steam Deck than ever before
3 days ago
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
1 day ago
An abandoned Ridley Scott plot twist inspired Alien: Earth's eyeball monster
1 day ago
This Steam best seller is the coolest thing I've played in a long time
More from our brands
Forza Horizon 5 On PS5 Pre-Order Guide: Bonuses, Editions, And Release Date
2026 Video Game Release Date Calendar
Best Open-World Games On Xbox Game Pass (March 2025)
Silent Hill f Pre-Order Guide: Platforms, Physical Editions, And Where To Buy
September 25 is Going to Be a Big Day for Xbox Gamers
It is the End of an Era for One of Xbox's Biggest Franchises
Fable Could Be The Biggest PS5 Game Of 2026
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Fire Emblem Shadows is Among Us with a twist
5 things I loved about Alien: Earth (and 5 more that I hated)
Coming-of-age horrors cut deep in Consume Me
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.