“DO NOT SELL OR SHARE MY PERSONAL INFORMATION” AND “TARGETED ADVERTISING” OPT-OUT RIGHTS - The Walt Disney Privacy Center
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
×
cancel
Country/Region & Language Selector
Search Countries
Search Languages
Save
us
United States
English
Search for
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
Toggle navigation
Search for
Privacy Policy
Privacy Policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
For Parents
For Parents
Children’s Privacy Policy
Advertising on Disney+
Internet Safety
Privacy Controls
Privacy Controls
ONLINE TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES AND ADVERTISING
More Resources
More Resources
Contact Us
Contact Us
Search
“DO NOT SELL OR SHARE MY PERSONAL INFORMATION” AND “TARGETED ADVERTISING” OPT-OUT RIGHTS
Some US states provide residents or, in some cases, their authorized agents, with the right to opt out of the “selling” or “sharing” of their personal information, or of “targeted advertising” based on their personal information.
Certain data collection and processing on our sites and applications for purposes of interest-based advertising and social media tools may be deemed by applicable state laws as “targeted advertising,” or a “sale” or “sharing” of personal information. To submit a request to opt out of targeted advertising, or the sale or sharing of your personal information, you may click the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” or “Your Privacy Choices” link in our website footers or in our application settings. If you are logged in, we may be able to associate your choice with your account and apply it to data sharing occurring through this digital property (across your browsers and devices) as well as other digital properties of The Walt Disney Family of Companies. You can confirm the status of your choice or opt out or in by clicking “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” or “Your Privacy Choices” on each property. If you are not logged in, your opt-out will be specific to this property and device or browser. For our other digital properties, to opt out, select “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” or “Your Privacy Choices” on each. If you clear your tracking history or use another browser or device, you’ll need to opt out again.
You can also submit this opt-out form, which may enable us to apply your opt-out more broadly, for example, to stop data sharing in connection with advertising intended to reach you on platforms not operated by Disney (e.g., social media platforms).
You may enable online, where available, a universal tool that automatically communicates your opt-out, such as Global Privacy Control (“GPC”), which we’ll process as if you had opted out through the toggle.
You may also use an authorized agent to submit a request to opt out on your behalf if you provide the authorized agent signed written permission to do so. Authorized agents may submit requests to opt out by visiting usprivacy.disney.com/agents. You have the right not to receive discriminatory treatment for the exercise of your privacy rights. For more information about how we collect and use personal information, please visit our Privacy Policy.
© Disney.
All rights reserved
Interest-Based Ads
Children’s Online Privacy Policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Print Page
Back to Top
back-to-top