Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library — $640,000 digital collection took 15 years to build | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Storage
Just in time for Prime Day, Steam's hardware survey reveals PC gamers have less free storage than ever
PC Gaming
Silksong crashes Steam, Nintendo eShop on release day
Gaming PCs
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Cybersecurity
Twitch streamer raising money for cancer treatment has funds stolen by malware-ridden Steam game
RAM
32GB of RAM on track to become the new majority for gamers
PC Gaming
1 in 5 Steam games released in 2025 use generative AI, up nearly 700% year-on-year
PC Gaming
AMD Threadripper Pro 9995WX can run 400 copies of Doom or eight instances of Crysis simultaneously
GPUs
Lucky gamer scores Nvidia's RTX 3060 12GB for $4.99
GPUs
Asus just made an RTX 5090 with 11 lbs of real gold worth $500,000
GPUs
Nvidia RTX 50 Series appears in Steam Hardware Survey for the first time
GPUs
Upgraded Nvidia RTX 5090 gets 128GB VRAM and $13,000 price tag
GPUs
$5,500 RTX 5090D with dual 16-pin power connectors and 2000W TDP escapes to eBay
Handheld Gaming
DIYer creates the PC gaming handheld of your widest dreams
PC Gaming
Sending a Steam sticker 'burned through a month of mobile data in five minutes' complains unhappy gamer
CPUs
AMD CPUs surpass the 40% threshold in latest Steam hardware survey
Video Games
PC Gaming
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library — $640,000 digital collection took 15 years to build
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
24 September 2025
To get into the top 100 Steam game collector leaderboard, you currently need to own at least 19,000 games.
Comments (8)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Valve)
It is notoriously easy to own more games than you have time to play on Steam. However, a Steam gamer in China has taken this phenomenon to the extreme. On Tuesday, SonixLegend became the first person to gain a Steam ‘Game Collector’ badge for owning 40,000 games. Obviously still on the lookout for their next favorite title, the needle has moved up to 40,031 at the time of writing, according to SteamDB (h/t Polygon).
(Image credit: Future)SonixLegend’s achievement hasn’t happened overnight. This particular user has been building up their game collection on Steam for over 15 years.Imagine all the payments processing, code copying and pasting, and agreeing to T&Cs time that would be required to hoard 40,000 Steam games. If SonixLegend could go through these steps in a swift minute per game, they would need a full month (with no rest) to add 40,000 games to a library. If ‘working’ 8-hour days on this endeavor, you’d be looking at three solid months of your life taken up to build this library.
You may like
Just in time for Prime Day, Steam's hardware survey reveals PC gamers have less free storage than ever
Silksong crashes Steam, Nintendo eShop on release day
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
As for actually playing through that enormous collection, Polygon estimates that it would take SonixLegend “seven years of non-stop playtime” to work through and get value out of this enormous game collection. Again, at a more ‘reasonable’ 8 hours per day, you’d have to triple that timescale. Underlining the fact that SonixLegend is a ‘normal’ gamer, though (not a bot or some such), are stats that show they are really keen on some of the games in their collection. Alien Swarm (released 2010) has been played through for over 550 hours. Moreover, 35 other titles have been completed ‘perfectly.’Two other SonixLegend stats stand out, which must make them a certified Steam-nut. First, we must highlight the potential cost of building this collection. According to SteamDB, the huge digital collection is worth nearly $640,000 at today’s prices, but SonixLegend must follow the sales, as they seem to have spent ‘just’ $248,810 on these digital goodies. Secondly, this Steam Devotee “technically owns over 97,000 titles in their account,” notes Polygon, but apparently Valve doesn’t count its PC games store's ‘shovelware.’Despite the humongous state of their collection, we are sure SonixLegend is still looking forward to the next Steam Sale…
(Image credit: Future)Almost as surprising as SonixLegend’s dubious achievement is that there is another user hot on their heels. In second place in this leaderboard, Ian Brandon Anderson owned 39,502 Steam games. In third, we see ikun with 36,660 titles, and all members of the top-10 club have at least 33,000 games in their burgeoning libraries. Even to crack the top 100 of this leaderboard, you will need at least 19,000 games, at the time of writing.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.My Steam PC collection expands to 135 games, which I thought was a lot. But I also own a few more titles on Epic, Ubisoft, and other platforms.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Steam
Valve
See all comments (8)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Just in time for Prime Day, Steam's hardware survey reveals PC gamers have less free storage than ever
Silksong crashes Steam, Nintendo eShop on release day
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Twitch streamer raising money for cancer treatment has funds stolen by malware-ridden Steam game
32GB of RAM on track to become the new majority for gamers
1 in 5 Steam games released in 2025 use generative AI, up nearly 700% year-on-year
Latest in PC Gaming
Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam
GPU sales skyrocketed 27% last quarter
Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions from next year
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
Gearbox CEO channels inner Claptrap, offers himself up as personal tech support over rampant Borderlands 4 PC performance issues
Official Borderlands 4 GPU setting recommendations peg 4K performance with the RTX 5090 at 60 FPS, with DLSS and frame generation enabled
Latest in News
HighPoint's adapter enables GPUDirect storage — up to 64 GB/s from drive to GPU, bypassing the CPU
Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
8 Comments
Comment from the forums
GenericUser2001
So his user name is "SonixLegend" ; I am guessing they are also a Sonic the Hedgehog fan, and well, a Sonic fan having the mindset to acquire 40k games does not surprise me.
Reply
Sluggotg
People collect lots of things. I have over 2,400 games from GOG. (I bought most of their retro games over the years and plenty of the newer ones). I have several hundred on Steam too. GOG has no DRM so it is my go to source for modern games.
Reply
artk2219
Should I buy a house, or have the largest game collection on steam? Steam it is.
Reply
circadia
artk2219 said:Should I buy a house, or have the largest game collection on steam? Steam it is.hey, no one's saying you can't do both 😂 😂
if you're that rich or patient enough to spend that much over that long amount of time, you can definitely buy a house
Reply
watzupken
Wow, for the amount of money spent on Steam, you get a virtual badge... I wonder what is the point of the achievement.
Reply
snemarch
watzupken said:Wow, for the amount of money spent on Steam, you get a virtual badge... I wonder what is the point of the achievement.In the grim darkness of the far future, there is only backlog.
To own is to serve. To play is optional.
By the Emperor’s Wallet!
Reply
ajcroteau
BUT... what I'd like to know is has he beaten them all yet?
Reply
fireaza
Huh, 40,000 seems a bit low to me, I would have expected the biggest Steam collection to be a lot more than that. I'm over halfway to 1000, and I only buy Steam games every now and again.
Reply
View All 8 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.