Open Science - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Open Science
When it comes to scientific rigor and editorial integrity, we will not compromise. The research outputs we publish promote multi-disciplinary discussions on complex problems and enable all stakeholders to learn from, reuse, and build upon scientific knowledge. We reimagine models and mechanisms for sharing to meet open science principles and use our journals to test and refine innovations at all stages of the research lifecycle.
What is open science?
Open science is about sharing research outputs and processes from across all stages of the research investigation; facilitating greater reproducibility, faster scientific progress, and broader access to knowledge. From methods to data, open science encourages researchers to make these valuable artifacts accessible to all.Emphasizing the importance of community collaboration and discussion, open science encourages the sharing of preprints, peer reviews and post-publication commentary and open access licensing ensures that these components, along with the research article itself, are freely available to readers worldwide.
Open science benefits
Open science enables effortless knowledge sharing, clearer visibility, and quicker innovation. Our tools make it easy to apply these benefits at every stage of the publication process.
Share your research without restrictions
We publish all research articles and artifacts under a CC-BY open access license, meaning your research can be shared with anyone, anywhere, to inform, inspire, and engage others in your work. That means you can showcase your results sooner, meet funding deadlines and increase the reach of your research.
Demonstrate accountability and research integrity
Giving others insight into the research process and the evaluation of your manuscript demonstrates the rigor of your work and ensures a fair assessment. Sharing the foundational components of your research also improves reproducibility and reduces opportunities for bias.
Maximize your contribution to science
Sharing more of your research at all stages of the research process ensures that everything you produce becomes part of the permanent scientific record. When you share study designs, methods, protocols, and data, readers can apply your findings in different contexts, accelerating research progress.
Increase your influence within your academic community and beyond
Make your research freely available and easily discoverable, enabling every researcher, policymaker, or educator to learn from it. Create your opportunities for collaboration and influence.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top