Tor browser's great - but for more complete privacy protection, you need to add this | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Security
Tor browser's great - but for more complete privacy protection, you need to add this
When you use the Tor Browser, the only network traffic that's being masked is via the web browser. If you want more traffic anonymized and encrypted, you need to take a different approach.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 24, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. PT
ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysTor Browser only protects browser traffic.To protect other network traffic, you need Tor.Tor is free to use and installable on Linux, MacOS, and Windows.By now, you've probably heard of the Tor Browser. If not, think of it this way: the Tor Browser is a secure web browser that works with the Tor Network to encrypt and anonymize all traffic. The only catch is that the traffic the Tor Browser works with is limited to the browser.That means, any other network traffic (email, messaging, etc.) is not encrypted or anonymized. If you only use your computer as a means to a web-browsing end, that's perfectly OK. But if you use it for other things that send and receive data over the internet, you might want to consider taking some extra steps to help secure those data packets.Also: I found the most private and secure way to browse the web -- and it isn't incognito modeIt's not as confusing as you think it is.In fact, I'm going to show you how to do this on Linux, so if you think that's fairly simple, you know the Windows and MacOS versions will be just as easy.Disclaimer: I recommend you create a system restore point on your machine. In case something goes wrong, you can roll back to a running instance. Whatever OS you use will dictate how this is done.Tor vs VPNYou might be asking yourself, Why don't I just use a VPN for this? First, some VPN services only work with web browsers. The big reason, however, is that Tor routes traffic through multiple servers to better anonymize your traffic, while a VPN only routes traffic through a single server. In the end, a VPN might offer a more stable connection, but Tor offers a more secure and private connection.Installing TorWhat you'll need: To make this work, you'll need a running instance of Linux (I'll demonstrate the process on Ubuntu 24.04) and a user with sudo privileges.If you're using a different operating system, you can download Tor from the official download page and install it as you would any application on either Windows or MacOS.Also: Why don't more people use desktop Linux? I have a theory you might not likeLet's do Linux.
1. Open a terminal window
That's right, this is done via the terminal, so open your terminal app of choice.
Show more
2. Install Tor
The next step is to install Tor, which can be done via the standard repositories. To install the application, issue the command:
Show more
sudo apt-get install tor -yIf you're using a Fedora-based distribution, you first have to install EPEL release with the command:sudo dnf install epel-release -yYou can then install Tor with:sudo dnf install tor -yYou now need to enable the Tor service with the command:sudo systemctl enable --now tor
3. Configure Tor
Once Tor is installed, you have to set up the proxy such that all of your user traffic over the network is routed through the Tor proxy. You can do this temporarily with the following three commands:
Show more
export http_proxy="socks5://localhost:9050"export https_proxy="socks5://localhost:9050"export no_proxy="localhost,127.0.0.1,::1"
Jack Wallen/ZDNETIf you want to make that permanent, add the above two lines at the bottom of the bashrc. You can then test to make sure this is working with the command:curl https://check.torproject.orgYou should see in the output something like this:Congratulations. This browser is configured to use Tor.Also: The first 5 Linux commands every new user should learnNotice the "browser" part of that sentence. That means Tor is working for your browser. How do you make this global? Well, depending on your OS, you probably have a Proxy configuration option in Network Settings. Essentially, when you enable/configure a proxy, it means all traffic is routed through it, and in this case, it's the Tor proxy. For example, Pop!_OS (with COSMIC desktop) allows you to enable and configure the proxy by going to Settings > Network & Wireless >  Wi-fi (or Wired if you're plugged in via ethernet cable) > Known Networks > Menu button > Settings. Click the Method drop-down and select Automatic.On a Ubuntu machine, that location would be in Settings > Network > Proxy. In that window, select Manual from the Configuration drop-down and then use localhost as the URL.
Configuring a proxy in Ubuntu is quite simple. Bang & OlufsenIf you're OS offers a Manual option, select that and then use the same addresses from the export commands above.I would also make sure to configure your web browser to use a Proxy. What browser you use will determine how this is configured, but I would suggest selecting Automatic Proxy (or however your browser defines it), and all should be fine. As well, you can configure any other networkable applications to use your proxy.Also: Why don't more people use desktop Linux? I have a theory you might not likeIf you find an application is failing to work through the Tor proxy, make sure to configure it to use the local proxy.After taking care of this, your OS should now be routing all traffic through the Tor proxy.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is off by default and hidden - turn it on now
These popular free VPNs all share the same shady security practices - here's why
3 reasons VPN use is set to explode worldwide - and that might apply to you
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use