Virus, Spyware, Malware, & PUP Removal Guides
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
FinWise insider breach impacts 689K American First Finance customers
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeVirus, Spyware, Malware, & PUP Removal Guides
Removal Guides
Sort By :
Date AddedTitleMost ReadLast Edited
1 2 3 4 5
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Various web browser extensions are causing searches from the address bar to be redirected through the Theonlinesearch.com website. It does this by modifying the browser's default search URL so that searchers go through the developer's site rather than the one you usually have configured....
Last Modified on August 23, 2022
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
If your browser is redirected through Smartwebfinder.com when performing searches through the address bar, you most likely have a browser extension installed that has modified the default search URL.
...
Last Modified on August 23, 2022
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
PBlock+ is a Google Chrome extension that claims to be a popup blocker, but instead displays advertisements in the browser....
Last Modified on October 29, 2020
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
If searches from a browser's address bar are being redirected through the site toksearches.xyz, then you most likely have a unwanted browser extension or add on installed. These extensions will configure your browser's search provider so that searches are sent through toksearches.xyz, which ultimately redirects to Yahoo.com, which shows the search results....
Last Modified on September 3, 2020
Remove the Smashapps.net Search Redirect
If searches from a browser's address bar are being redirected through the site smashapps.net, then you most likely have a unwanted browser extension or add on installed. These extensions will configure your browser's search provider so that searches are sent through smashapps.net, which ultimately redirects to Yahoo.com, which shows the search results....
Last Modified on September 3, 2020
Remove the Smashappsearch.com Search Redirect
If searches from a browser's address bar are being redirected through the site Smashappsearch.com, then you most likely have a unwanted browser extension or add on installed. These extensions will configure your browser's search provider so that searches are sent through Smashappsearch.com, which ultimately redirects to Yahoo.com, which shows the search results....
Last Modified on September 3, 2020
Remove the BipApp Chrome Extension
BipApp by is a Google Chrome extension that has a description of "Search From your address bar with BipApp Search" that hijacks your browser search to another search engine....
Last Modified on September 3, 2020
Remove the Please Allow to watch the video Notification Page
If you see a web site that states "Please "Allow" to watch the video" and then prompts you to allow browser notifications, do not click on the allow button. These sites are just trying to trick you into subscribing to their browser notifications so that they can send notification spam directly to your desktop.
...
Last Modified on July 6, 2020
Remove the Chrome Annual visitor survey scam
The Annual visitor survey scam is a browser based advertisement that states asks you to take part in a survey about how you use Google Chrome and whether you like various features. In return for filling out this survey, you will have a chance of winning a $1,000 gift card for Amazon.com....
Last Modified on July 6, 2020
Remove the Chrome search contest 2020 Scam
The Chrome search contest 2020 scam is a browser based advertisement that states pretends to be from Google and states that you made the 5-billionth search. Due to this, you won rewards such as an Apple Watch, a $1,000 gift certificate to Amazon, or a $1,000 gift certificate to Apple....
Last Modified on July 6, 2020
Remove the Srchus.xyz Search Redirect
If searches from a browser's address bar and possibly search engines are being redirected through the site https://srchus.xyz.com/, then you most likely have a browser extension or addon installed that is causing these redirects. Some extension will cause all of the searches from your browser's address bar to redirect through https://srchus.xyz.com/, which redirects to https://vitosc.xyz/....
Last Modified on March 13, 2020
Remove the Vitosc.xyz Search Redirect
If searches from a browser's address bar and possibly search engines are being redirected through the site https://vitosc.xyz/, then you most likely have a browser extension or addon installed that is causing these redirects. Some extension will cause all of the searches from your browser's address bar to redirect to https://vitosc.xyz/....
Last Modified on March 13, 2020
Remove the Wisip Chrome Extension
Wisip is a Google Chrome extension that has a description of "This extension configures your Default Search to Smash Search (srchus.xyz)". ...
Last Modified on March 13, 2020
Remove the Press Allow to watch the video Notification Page
If you see a web site that states "Press
to watch the video" and then prompts you to allow browser notifications, do not click on the allow button. These sites are just trying to trick you into subscribing to their browser notifications so that they can send notification spam directly to your desktop. ...
Last Modified on March 11, 2020
Remove the Flash App+ Chrome Extension
Flash App+ is a Google Chrome extension that has a description of "This extension configures your Default Search to Flash App+ (searchpowerapp.com)". ...
Last Modified on February 13, 2020
Remove the Windows Defender Browser Protection Tech Support Scam
The Windows Defender Browser Protection tech support scam is a fake web site alert that states that Windows Defender Browser Extension detected someone to hack your bank account....
Last Modified on January 23, 2020
1 2 3 4 5
search guides
Latest Guides
Theonlinesearch.com Smartwebfinder.com PBlock+ adware browser extension Toksearches.xyz Smashapps.net Search Redirect Smashappsearch.com Search Redirect BipApp Chrome Extension Please Allow to watch the video Notification Page Annual visitor survey Scam Chrome search contest 2020 Scam
Removal Tool Guides
ComboFix
Emsisoft Anti-Malware
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Malwarebytes' Anti-Rootkit
SUPERAntiSpyware
Threat Descriptions
Adware
Browser Extensions and Add-ons
Browser Hijacker
Potentially Unwanted Programs (PUP)
Ransomware
Rogue Programs & Scareware
Rootkits
Spyware
Tech Support Scams
Trojan Horses
Unwanted Browser Advertisements
Worms
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now