10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
Copart
Tyler Technologies
Chipotle Mexican Grill
SAP
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
BAE Systems
Tradeweb Markets
Experian
InterContinental Hotels Group
Autodesk
What Are the Morningstar Style Box and Fair Value Estimate?
How to Find More Growth Stocks to Buy
Home
Stocks
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
The stocks of these high-quality growth companies look undervalued today.
Margaret Giles
Sep 19, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC ADR
(IHG)
Tyler Technologies Inc
(TYL)
BAE Systems PLC ADR
(BAESY)
Tradeweb Markets Inc
(TW)
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd ADR
(TSM)
+5 More
The predominant investment theme throughout 2025 has been the exceptionally rapid development and buildout of artificial intelligence, and growth stocks have been the main beneficiary.However, as valuations rose too far above our fair values, momentum faded this fall as investors began to rotate into better opportunities in the value category.What does this mean for growth stocks? “While the broad growth category trades at a premium, we continue to see idiosyncratic opportunities, although they have become fewer and farther between,” says Morningstar Chief US Market Strategist Dave Sekera.Our best growth stocks to buy for the long term share a few qualities:They land in the growth portion of the Morningstar Style Box.The stocks are from companies included on Morningstar’s list of the Best Companies to Own for 2025. Companies on this list have wide Morningstar Economic Moat Ratings and predictable cash flows, and they are run by management teams that make smart capital-allocation decisions.They look reasonably priced, which means they’re trading below or near Morningstar’s fair value estimates.10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long TermThe 10 most undervalued growth stocks from Morningstar’s Best Companies to Own list as of Sept. 18, 2025, were:Copart CPRTTyler Technologies TYLChipotle Mexican Grill CMG SAP SAPTaiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing TSMBAE Systems BAESYTradeweb Markets TWExperian EXPGYInterContinental Hotels Group IHGAutodesk ADSKHere’s a little bit about each of these growth stocks for the long term. Data is as of Sept. 18.Start your week with our top stock picks and market insights on The Morning Filter.CopartPrice/Fair Value: 0.80Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Mid-GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: Specialty Business ServicesCopart is the most undervalued on our list of best growth stocks to buy. The firm has grown into the largest online salvage vehicle auction operator in the United States. Copart receives the majority of its vehicle volume through contracts with large auto insurers and sells them on consignment for high margins, often to dismantlers. The company has expanded its top line nearly fivefold since 2009 owing to a combination of significant land expansion and robust service quality to drive higher salvage vehicle volume, observes Morningstar senior analyst David Whiston. Copart stock is trading 20% below our fair value estimate of $57 per share.Tyler TechnologiesPrice/Fair Value: 0.82Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Mid-GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: Software—ApplicationTyler Technologies is the clear leader in the underserved niche market of government operational software, argues Morningstar senior analyst Dan Romanoff. Tyler addresses the needs of cities, counties, schools, courts, and other local government entities. We see the firm’s expanding portfolio as driving larger deals that encompass more solutions. It has established enough of a reputation in the market that it is called upon in most relevant government system searches. Further, Tyler benefits from a fragmented market that includes companies that are nowhere near its size or scale and that are focused on the local public institution market. Tyler Technologies stock trades 18% below our $650 fair value estimate. Chipotle Mexican GrillPrice/Fair Value: 0.87Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Mid-GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: ExemplaryIndustry: RestaurantsChipotle Mexican Grill is new to our list of best growth stocks to buy. With a $46 fair value estimate, the company has carved out a durable niche in the US restaurant landscape, says Morningstar analyst Dan Su. With competitive menu prices, extreme convenience, and “food with integrity” allowing it to lure customers away from both casual dining and traditional fast-food competitors. Strong returns on investment, like Chipotle’s loyalty program that has attracted 40 million members, drive our high-single-digit annual growth estimates. Chipotle stock is trading at a 13% discount to our fair value estimate.SAPPrice/Fair Value: 0.87Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Large GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: Software—ApplicationWith well-known products like Concur and Ariba, software application company SAP is the world’s largest provider of enterprise application software and the global market leader in enterprise resource planning software. Morningstar senior analyst Rob Hales expects low to midteens revenue growth in the near and midterm, driven by the firm’s core cloud ERP offerings, Rise with SAP and Grow with SAP. Shares of SAP stock are trading 13% below our fair value estimate of $311.Taiwan Semiconductor ManufacturingPrice/Fair Value: 0.88Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Large GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: SemiconductorsTaiwan Semiconductor is the world’s largest dedicated contract chip manufacturer, with over 60% market share in 2024. Like all foundries, it assumes the costs and capital expenditures of running factories amid a highly cyclical market for its customers. Morningstar analyst Phelix Lee notes two long-term growth factors for the company: First, the consolidation of semiconductor firms is expected to create demand for integrated systems made with the most advanced nodes. Second, the organic growth of artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, and high-performance computing applications may last for decades. Taiwan Semiconductor stock trades 12% below our fair value estimate of $306 per share. BAE SystemsPrice/Fair Value: 0.88Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Large GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: Aerospace and DefenseBAE Systems is next on our list of best growth stocks. BAE is a British global defense, security, and aerospace company and the largest defense contractor in Europe; it is one of six prime contractors for the US Department of Defense. Escalating global security concerns, intensified by the Ukraine conflict, are driving structurally higher growth in the defense market. BAE is strategically positioned to benefit, given its significant stakes in a broad array of major international defense projects, says Morningstar analyst Loredana Muharremi. BAE Systems stock trades 12% below our $121 fair value estimate.Tradeweb MarketsPrice/Fair Value: 0.95Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Mid-GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: ExemplaryIndustry: Capital MarketsNew to our list of best growth stocks to buy is Tradeweb Markets, which operates one of the leading platforms for the electronic trading of fixed-income products and derivatives. Tradeweb operates on a broader scope than most of its competitors, offering trading of almost anything related to fixed income. The firm has benefited from a global shift toward electronic trading platforms, and it has taken meaningful market share in the bond and derivative markets. Morningstar analyst Michael Miller sees a long runway of growth ahead of Tradeweb as the transition to electronic trading networks continues. Tradeweb stock is trading just below its fair value estimate of $118 per share.ExperianPrice/Fair Value: 0.97Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Large GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: Consulting ServicesExperian is one of the Big Three credit bureaus in the United States. Experian’s US core credit bureau business is relatively mature, so the company has been expanding through adjacent products and in emerging markets, observes Morningstar analyst Rajiv Bhatia. He thinks the growth of middle-class populations in emerging markets and favorable regulatory changes will drive long-term growth. However, the story in the emerging markets is not seamless, and Experian has faced currency and macroeconomic headwinds. Experian stock trades just below our fair value estimate of $54 per share.InterContinental Hotels GroupPrice/Fair Value: 0.98Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Large GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: StandardIndustry: LodgingInterContinental Hotels Group has a suite of newer brands focused on midscale and extended-stay lodging. With a loyalty program of 145 million members, Morningstar senior analyst Dan Wasiolek thinks InterContinental has one of the strongest brands in the industry. A large presence in international markets strengthens its position. We see its total room growth averaging more than 3% over the next decade, above the 1%-2% supply increase we estimate for the US industry. InterContinental stock trades around our fair value estimate of $120.AutodeskPrice/Fair Value: 1.01Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Style Box: Mid-GrowthMorningstar Capital Allocation Rating: ExemplaryIndustry: Software—ApplicationAutodesk rejoins and rounds out our list of best growth stocks to buy. We view the firm as the global industry standard computer-aided design software, says Morningstar director Eric Compton, and we think the firm will stay at the forefront of industry trends. Over 95% of Autodesk’s revenue is now recurring after the company gradually transitioned from licenses over the past eight years. The change enables Autodesk to extract greater revenue per user as it upsells its loyal and increasingly maturing base, adds Compton. The company has nurtured a long-standing network effect via relationships with higher-education programs that expose industry professionals to the software before they enter the workforce. Autodesk stock is fairly valued relative to our $320 fair value estimate.What Are the Morningstar Style Box and Fair Value Estimate?The Morningstar Style Box is a nine-square grid that provides a graphical representation of the investment style of stocks, bonds, or funds. Based on a series of inputs—including a company’s historical and long-term projected growth and its historical and forward-looking price multiples—a stock is classified as either a value stock, a growth stock, or a core stock. A stock is also classified as either small-cap, mid-cap, or large-cap based on its market capitalization.The fair value estimate, meanwhile, represents what Morningstar analysts think a particular stock is worth. Fair value estimates are rooted in fundamentals and based on how much cash we think a company can generate in the future, not on fleeting metrics such as recent earnings or current stock price momentum.
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off
Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
43m 42s
Sep 15, 2025
Watch
How to Find More Growth Stocks to BuyOf course, there are many other criteria investors can use to find growth stocks to buy for the long term. Here are some tools that investors can use to find more growth-stock ideas to research further.Investors can use the Morningstar Investor screener to more easily compare growth stocks with each other. One way would be to screen by Stock Style under the Criteria drop-down menu, choosing large growth, mid-growth, small growth, or some combination thereof. Then, once you have your results, click on Data & Columns to select Financials data points in the Stocks area. These might be valuation metrics like price/earnings ratios or revenue growth, among others. Then click Update. Once back to the list of stocks, click on the data point that matters most to you to rank the list on that particular data point.Investors who’d rather invest in growth stocks through a managed product like an exchange-traded fund or a mutual fund can find ideas to research further in The Best Growth Funds.More of the Best Stocks to Buy The 10 Best Companies to Invest in Now
10 Best Blue-Chip Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
10 Best Value Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
Our Best Investment lists feature analyst-researched picks to help you invest smarter, faster.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Stocks
View All
CarMax Earnings: Magnitude of Consumers’ Unwillingness to Buy Is a Negative Surprise Lowering our fair value estimate on CarMax stock as macro headwinds hit.
David Whiston, CFA, CPA, CFE Sep 25, 2025
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
Marvell: Bullish Comments from CEO Bring Market Closer in Alignment With Our Thesis The comments affirmed our belief that Marvell is not going to lose artificial intelligence accelerator revenue next year.
William Kerwin, CFA Sep 25, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Margaret Giles Editor
More from Author
Margaret Giles is a senior editor of content development for Morningstar.
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 25, 2025
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Christine Benz Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now
Margaret Giles Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 22, 2025
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Christine Benz Sep 18, 2025
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
The Best Communication-Services Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 15, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility