Mysterious changes near Earth’s core revealed by satellites in space
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
16 September 2025
Clarification 17 September 2025
Mysterious changes near Earth’s core revealed by satellites in space
Orbiters can pick up gravitational shifts thousands of kilometres below the surface.
By
Alexandra Witze
Alexandra Witze
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
The GRACE satellites, which flew one in front of the other from 2002 to 2017 (shown in this artist rendering), detected gravitational changes on Earth. Credit: NASA
Material deep inside Earth — thousands of kilometres down, near the planet’s core — has undergone a mysterious shift.Is Earth’s core leaking? Volcanic rocks provide strongest evidence yetAlthough the change occurred nearly two decades ago, between 2006 and 2008, scientists discovered it only recently, while analysing data from a pair of satellites that once measured variations in Earth’s gravity. The team thinks it might have happened when the structure of some of the rocks near the boundary between Earth’s core and mantle transformed, becoming denser.The discovery — which was possible because the geological shift altered the planet’s gravitational field — is an astonishing testament to Earth-orbiting satellites. “It’s a really new observation,” says Isabelle Panet, a geophysicist at Paris City University. Panet, lead author Charlotte Gaugne Gouranton — also at that university — and their colleagues reported the findings last month in Geophysical Research Letters1.The work will help scientists to better understand the connections between Earth’s various layers, from its brittle crust to its solid mantle to its partially liquid core, Panet says. Connections between these layers affect where large earthquakes originate, how the planet maintains a magnetic field that protects it from solar storms and more.Follow the leaderPanet’s team made the discovery using data from a pair of US–German satellites known as the Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE), which orbited Earth between 2002 and 2017. The satellites flew one in front of the other, separated by a set distance.Strange blobs in Earth’s mantle are relics of a massive collisionWhen they encountered a gravitational tug from, for example, the hulking mass of a mountain range, the lead satellite would pull temporarily away from the trailing satellite — a change that could be measured and correlated with the gravitational shift. Researchers have most often used changes in the distance between the GRACE satellites to measure the displacement of masses of water on Earth, such as when groundwater disappears beneath croplands or when glaciers melt.But, as it turns out, GRACE was also able to spot much deeper changes in Earth’s mass. Panet had already used it to look for mass changes happening hundreds of kilometres below the surface ahead of large earthquakes2,3. Then she realized she could probe even farther down, to a depth of nearly 2,900 kilometres, to the complex boundary between the core and mantle.Panet and her colleagues spotted a strange signal in the GRACE data that peaked around 2007 and was centred off Africa’s Atlantic coast. They were unable to attribute it to water shifting around on Earth’s surface, however. “So at least partially, there has to be an origin within the solid Earth,” Panet says. “It has to come from very deep.”In the deep
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03007-6
Updates & Corrections
Clarification 17 September 2025: An earlier version of this story said that Isabelle Panet is at Gustav Eiffel University in Paris. She is at that university, but her primary affiliation is Paris City University.
ReferencesGauge Gouranton, C., Panet, I., Greff-Lefftz, M. & Rosat, S. Geophys. Res. Lett. 52, e2025GL116408 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Panet, I., Bonvalot, S., Narteau, C., Remy, D. & Lemione, J.-M. Nature Geosci. 11, 367–373 (2018).Article
Google Scholar
Bouih, M., Panet, I., Remy, D., Longuevergne, L. & Bonvalot, S.. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett. 584, 117465 (2022).Article
Google Scholar
Chulliat, A. & Maus, S. J. Geophys. Res. Solid Earth 119, 1531–1543 (2014).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Is Earth’s core leaking? Volcanic rocks provide strongest evidence yet
Earth’s mysterious inner core really is changing shape
Strange blobs in Earth’s mantle are relics of a massive collision
Deepest-ever samples of rock from Earth’s mantle unveiled
Subjects
Geology
Geophysics
Latest on:
Geology
Deep gashes in the earth are slicing up cities, swallowing houses and displacing vast numbers of people
News 27 AUG 25
Powerful satellite will map changes on Earth in stunning detail — down to a centimetre
News 30 JUL 25
Are these the world’s oldest rocks? Fresh data confirm contested claim
News 26 JUN 25
Geophysics
Marsquakes indicate that the inner core of the red planet is solid, not liquid
News & Views 03 SEP 25
On the effects of fault alignment on slip stability
Matters Arising 18 JUN 25
Reply to: On the effects of fault alignment on slip stability
Matters Arising 18 JUN 25
Jobs
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry
City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) is one of the world’s leading universities, known for innovation, creativity and research.  We are now seeki...
Hong Kong (HK)
City University of Hong Kong
Related Articles
Is Earth’s core leaking? Volcanic rocks provide strongest evidence yet
Earth’s mysterious inner core really is changing shape
Strange blobs in Earth’s mantle are relics of a massive collision
Deepest-ever samples of rock from Earth’s mantle unveiled
Subjects
Geology
Geophysics
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited