US serial killer case opens door to using cutting-edge DNA data in courts
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
25 September 2025
US serial killer case opens door to using cutting-edge DNA data in courts
New York trial could set a legal precedent by admitting findings from whole-genome sequencing as evidence.
By
Katherine Bourzac
Katherine Bourzac
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
A crime laboratory officer removes material from the house of the prime suspect in the Gilgo Beach killings.Credit: Jeenah Moon/AP Photo/AlamyA judge in New York rejected a request on 23 September to disqualify the use of cutting-edge DNA sequencing as evidence in a case against an alleged serial killer. The ruling paves the way for a type of DNA analysis known as whole-genome sequencing — used to decipher ancient DNA in fossilized remains, for example — to be admitted as evidence in US criminal trials.“This is a big step forward for the use of DNA evidence, because it will allow comparisons and matches with evidence that was previously considered too minuscule, too old or too badly degraded to be considered useful,” says Nathan Lents, a biologist at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York City. “You can bet that cold-case units all over the country are going back through their evidence lockers to see if there are samples that can now be tested with a reasonable chance of success.”A technology maturesThe Gilgo Beach killings were a series of murders that occurred in Suffolk County, New York, between 1993 and 2011. Many of the victims were sex workers, and the bodies of some of them were found near the eponymous beach. New York architect Rex Heuermann was charged with seven of the murders in 2023 and 2024 partially on the basis of hairs found on the victims.In 2010, investigators concluded that there wasn’t enough genetic material in the hairs for conventional forensic technology to identify whose they were. But since then, genomic technology has matured at a fast pace.Rex Heuermann appears in a New York court in 2023. Credit: James Carbone/AP Photo/AlamyForensic scientists still identify suspects from hair and other samples using the conventional polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method, which can amplify snippets of DNA called short tandem repeats (STRs). Today, however, scientists can also sequence whole genomes and look at single-letter variations in the DNA to zero in on a person of interest. This technology has the added benefit of being able to analyse severely degraded samples — from Neanderthal remains to hairs in the Gilgo Beach case. But it has typically been used only during investigations, and the results have not been widely presented as evidence before juries.The controversial company using DNA to sketch the faces of criminalsThe prosecution in the Gilgo Beach case contracted the company Astrea Forensics in Santa Cruz, California, to analyse the hairs found on the victims. Because they were rootless, they hadn’t yielded enough DNA for conventional STR profiling. (Rootless hairs are mostly made of keratin and don’t contain much genetic material, Lents says.)But Astrea was able to sequence the small amount of genetic material in the hairs and then use statistical-analysis software to scan the DNA for single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) — single-letter differences in people’s genetic codes. Even in a degraded sample, whole-genome sequencing followed by this statistical analysis can spot thousands of SNPs: enough to pinpoint an individual’s unique pattern, Lents says.Next, scientists at Astrea compared the SNP profiles they obtained with profiles stored in genealogy databases and looked for matches. People submit their DNA to genealogy services, such as 23andMe and Ancestry, and these companies return SNP profiles that people can then upload to websites such as GEDMatch to locate potential relatives. Users have the option to make the data available to forensic genealogists — and these data are what Astrea used to zero in on Heuermann and his family.Setting precedentThe defence team in the Gilgo Beach case initially challenged the validity of Astrea’s DNA-analysis methods — which were developed by palaeogenomics researcher Richard ‘Ed’ Green at the University of California, Santa Cruz. (Green declined to comment for this article, given the ongoing prosecution.) The defence argued that the statistical methods used by Astrea were unique, and questioned whether they had been sufficiently validated.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03102-8
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
The controversial company using DNA to sketch the faces of criminals
Was famed poet Pablo Neruda poisoned? Scientists warn case not closed
Supercharged crime-scene DNA analysis sparks privacy concerns
23andMe plans to sell its huge genetic database: could science benefit?
What went wrong at 23andMe? Why the genetic-data giant risks collapse
Subjects
Genomics
Law
Latest on:
Genomics
Law
She lived to 117: what her genes and lifestyle tell us about longevity
News 24 SEP 25
A haplotype-based evolutionary history of barley domestication
Article 24 SEP 25
Ancient DNA clarifies the early history of the Slavs
News & Views 03 SEP 25
Heatwaves linked to emissions of individual fossil-fuel and cement producers
News & Views Forum 10 SEP 25
Climate impacts are real — denying this is self-defeating
Editorial 10 SEP 25
Trial and error: research and the criminal justice system
Career Feature 26 AUG 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University School of Medicine
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
The controversial company using DNA to sketch the faces of criminals
Was famed poet Pablo Neruda poisoned? Scientists warn case not closed
Supercharged crime-scene DNA analysis sparks privacy concerns
23andMe plans to sell its huge genetic database: could science benefit?
What went wrong at 23andMe? Why the genetic-data giant risks collapse
Subjects
Genomics
Law
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited