Finally, a $799 Windows laptop that I wouldn't mind putting my MacBook Air away for | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Laptops
Finally, a $799 Windows laptop that I wouldn't mind putting my MacBook Air away for
The Acer Aspire 16 is the kind of midrange laptop we need more of. Its marathon battery and strong performance make it a reliable choice for many.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 6:44 a.m. PT
Acer Aspire 16 AI
ZDNET's key takeaways The Acer Aspire 16 AI is available on Amazon for $799. It's a reliable, lightweight workhorse with a marathon battery that's ideal for long days.However, its hardware has performance limitations. View now at AcerView now at Amazon more buying choices Best laptop deals of the week
Dell Inspiron 16 Plus 7640 Intel Ultra 9 512GB SSD 16GB RAM 16-inch 2.5K Laptop:  $800 (save $300)
Lenovo ThinkPad E16 Gen 2 Ryzen 7 1TB SSD 16GB RAM 16-inch Touch Laptop:  $959 (save $280)
HP OmniBook X Flip Intel Ultra 7 1TB SSD 16GB RAM 14-inch 2K 2-in-1 Laptop:  $800 (save $350)
Dell Inspiron 16 5645 Ryzen 7 1TB SSD 16GB RAM 16-inch Laptop:  $630 (save $170)
HP OmniBook X Ngai Intel Ultra 7 512GB SSD 16GB RAM 17.3-inch Touch Laptop:  $750 (save $500) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Acer's new Aspire 16 AI is a humble laptop. It isn't flashy or over-the-top, it doesn't house high-end hardware or an OLED screen. Instead, it focuses on being a reliable work device with a midrange price tag. Considering how expensive things are nowadays, we need more laptops like this now more than ever before -- especially if you're a college student.For students, the Aspire 16 is a reliable device with enough battery power to get through the day. Instead of bells and whistles, it delivers solid performance and a slim form factor that's easy to commute with.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Acer Aspire 16 AI With its smooth 120Hz display, 1440p webcam, and approachable price, Acer's Aspire 16 AI stands out as a practical device.
details
View at Acer Sleek designThe Acer Aspire 16 AI opts for a practical design, measuring 14 x 9.85 x 0.63 inches and weighing 3.42 pounds, it's sleek, sliding easily into most backpacks. Build quality is solid, and its weight is evenly distributed, passing the "one-finger test" without a hint of wobble.I also appreciate the spacious touchpad, which measures 5.9 x 3.5 inches and provides plenty of room for comfortable navigating. You can move from one side of the screen to the other without needing to lift your finger off. Too often, budget laptops cut corners by equipping cramped touchpads.
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETTyping on the Aspire 16 felt mostly satisfying. The main set of keys is evenly spaced out and offers a decent amount of travel distance, making it easy to type quickly. That said, the keys have a slightly mushy feel; it's not the most crispy keyboard. Plus, the up and down arrow keys, as well as the number pad, are undersized. They're perfectly functional, although you may accidentally bump keys. Made for schoolAbove the keyboard sits a 16-inch LCD touchscreen that delivers a solid all-around viewing experience. The panel covers the entire sRGB gamut, so although colors don't pop with the vibrance of an OLED, they're not dull, either. What the Aspire 16's display lacks in wow factor, it makes up for in other areas. At a resolution of 1,920 x 1,200 pixels and a refresh rate of 120Hz, it delivers crisp visuals.Also: How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows usersA refresh rate that high is typically found on gaming laptops. While you won't be doing high-end gaming on this laptop because of its hardware, you will appreciate how smooth everything feels. I experienced this firsthand during testing when I ran a night driving livestream on YouTube. The built-in speakers aren't particularly impressive, but they do offer a respectable amount of volume and clarity.
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETOn the downside, I did run into some visual quirks, like color banding. This is where color gradients break into visible pieces instead of blending seamlessly, but it is a rare occurrence.A real standout feature is its 1440p webcam. For business people and students alike, this is a big win. Most other laptops in this category opt for 1080p -- or even 720p cameras. The higher resolution produces a clean, sharp image with natural-looking colors as well as none of the graininess you'd encounter recording over a low-quality webcam. Combined with speedy connectivity standards like Wi-Fi 7, the Aspire 16 AI is well-equipped for online and offline work.Featherweight performanceInside the Acer Aspire 16 AI is a Qualcomm Snapdragon X chipset paired with 16GB of RAM, a configuration that prioritizes energy efficiency. During testing, the device lasted just 17 hours on a single charge. That's pretty impressive. Acer states that the Aspire 16 can stretch that runtime to as much as 28 hours under the right conditions. Either way, this marathon battery makes the model a strong option for people who don't want to constantly reach for the charger.When it comes to everyday performance, Acer's machine did well. It supported over 50 Chrome tabs, consisting of high-res livestreams, a Netflix movie, news articles, and more, without flinching. This level of multitasking shows that the Aspire 16 is versatile enough for students looking for a computer flexible enough for bouncing between homework and streaming or professionals juggling multiple apps.Also: Best Amazon Prime Day laptop deals 2025: I'm tracking 30 of my favorite discounts ahead of OctoberThat said, there are some trade-offs. First, the Snapdragon X is a Windows on ARM chip, meaning not every app is fully supported. Most programs are fine, with a few exceptions, like the benchmarking app Cinebench 24. Compatibility issues are rarer these days, but you can run into them. Also, because the Snapdragon X is a mid-tier chipset, the Aspire 16 is might have some trouble keeping up with extremely demanding workloads. Here's how it compares to similar computers in benchmarking relative to price.  Honestly, the performance gap isn't massive, and for most people, the difference is negligible, but it still exists. What tips the scale in Acer's favor is value. While the rivals perform better, they're more expensive -- twice as much in the case of the Dell 16 Plus. The Aspire 16 delivers a comparable experience at a better price point. For people on a budget, that affordability makes the laptop an attractive option despite any limitations it has.
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETZDNET's buying adviceRight now, you can purchase the Acer Aspire 16 AI from the company's official website for $800. Acer developed this laptop primarily for tech-savvy students who need a versatile device to help with school work and have a long-lasting battery. I agree with Acer on their choice of core audience, and think this laptop suits them well.  If you're looking for a more premium alternative, I recommend the Dell 16 Plus. It's very similar in terms of size and target audience, but Dell's model is more suited to demanding tasks, has a more premium build, and a nicer 2.5K touchscreen (but is twice the price). Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Looking for an laptop with an OLED? Here's one I recommend (and it's on sale)
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
The best laptops you can buy: Expert tested
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use