Bombardment of Papeete - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Background
2
Battle
3
Aftermath
4
Citations
5
References
6
Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Bombardment of Papeete
9 languages
BrezhonegEspañolFrançaisItalianoעבריתMagyar日本語PolskiРусский
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
Coordinates: 17°32′S 149°34′W﻿ / ﻿17.53°S 149.57°W﻿ / -17.53; -149.57
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
First World War battle in French Polynesia
Bombardment of PapeetePart of Asian and Pacific theatre of World War IBuildings in the city of Papeete destroyed by German shore bombardment.Date22 September 1914Locationoff Papeete, French Polynesia, Pacific Ocean17°32′S 149°34′W﻿ / ﻿17.53°S 149.57°W﻿ / -17.53; -149.57Result
German victory
French ships sunk
Coal piles not captured, destroyed by the French[1]Belligerents
France
GermanyCommanders and leaders
Maxime Destremau
Maximilian von SpeeStrength
Land:160 infantry2 shore batteriesSea:1 gunboat1 freighter[2]
2 armored cruisers[3]Casualties and losses
1 gunboat sunk1 freighter sunkPapeete severely damaged[4]
None[4]
Civilian casualties:2 killed[4]vteAsian and Pacific theatre of World War I
Chefoo
Tsingtao
Samoa
Fanning
New Guinea
Nauru
Bita Paka
Toma
Madang
Pacific Islands
Papeete
Madras
Honolulu
Penang
Coronel
Cocos
North-West
Tochi
Peshawar
Mohmand
Mahsuds
Kelantan
Singapore
Más a Tierra
Korea
Chinese Eastern Railway
Central Asia
Beijing
German Tientsin
Hankou
Austro-Hungarian Tientsin
German and Austro-Hungarian Peking
Guam
German Resistance in New Guinea
See also: Hindu–German Conspiracy
vteCommand of the Oceans 1914–1917
Nauru
Zanzibar
Madras
Papeete
Tsingtao
Rufiji Delta
Penang
Coronel
Cocos
Falkland Islands
Más a Tierra
Guam
Pacific Islands
Scharnhorst's and Gneisenau's path across the Pacific.
The Bombardment of Papeete occurred in French Polynesia when German warships attacked on 22 September 1914, during World War I. The German armoured cruisers SMS Scharnhorst and Gneisenau entered the port of Papeete on the island of Tahiti and sank the French gunboat Zélée and freighter Walküre before bombarding the town's fortifications. French shore batteries and a gunboat resisted the German intrusion but were greatly outgunned. The main German objective was to seize the coal piles stored on the island, but these were destroyed by the French at the start of the action.
The German vessels were largely undamaged but the French lost their gunboat. Several of Papeete's buildings were destroyed and the town's economy was severely disrupted. The main strategic consequence of the engagement was the disclosure of the cruisers' positions to the British Admiralty, which led to the Battle of Coronel where the entire German East Asia Squadron defeated a Royal Navy squadron. The depletion of Scharnhorst's and Gneisenau's ammunition at Papeete also contributed to their subsequent destruction at the Battle of the Falklands.
Background[edit]
Word of war reached Admiral Maximilian von Spee—of the German East Asia Squadron—while at Ponape (17 July – 6 August). He concentrated the majority of his squadron at Pagan Island in the nearby Mariana Islands, and then steamed off into the Pacific with the Scharnhorst-class armored cruisers SMS Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, the Königsberg-class light cruiser SMS Nürnberg, the auxiliary cruiser SMS Titania, and several colliers at his disposal. Nürnberg and Titania were sent to gather intelligence at Hawaii and raid the cable station at Fanning Island.[5] Spee then learned that Australian and New Zealand forces had captured German Samoa, and he sailed off in his flagship Scharnhorst—along with her sister ship Gneisenau—to engage what Allied forces they could find there. Failing to catch the Samoa Expeditionary Force at Apia and having seen no action at all since leaving Pagan Island, the men of Spee's armored cruisers were eager to meet the enemy in battle.[6]
Spee decided to raid Papeete in Tahiti on his way to rendezvous with the rest of his squadron at Easter Island. The French held over 5,000 t (5,500 short tons) of high-quality Cardiff coal at the port, and Spee hoped to seize the coal piles to replenish his squadron's supply. Additionally, Spee aimed at destroying what allied shipping he could find in the harbour, and thought the raid might help raise his men's morale. Spee intended to coal at Suwarrow Atoll before sailing to Papeete, but was prevented by foul weather.[3] Instead, Spee decided to take Scharnhorst and Gneisenau and attempt to resupply at Bora Bora while Nürnberg and Titania were dispatched to Nuku Hiva to guard the fleet's colliers. The German admiral intended to keep his vessels' identities secret by disguising them as French ships, flying French flags, and only allowing French- and English-speaking members of his crew contact with the Frenchmen present there.[1] Spee managed to replenish his food stores using gold seized by Titania and Nürnberg during their raid of Fanning, and was able to discover the strength of the French military in the region as well as the exact size and positions of the coal piles at Papeete.[7][8]
The French had no heavy defenses at Papeete but had been warned that Spee's squadron might raid Tahiti and that a German squadron had been sighted off Samoa. Although Papeete was the capital of the French Settlements in Oceania, by 1914 it had become a colonial backwater, lacking a wireless station and having a garrison of only 25 colonial infantry and 20 gendarmes.[8] In order to bolster the town's defenses, Lieutenant Maxime Destremau—commander of the old wooden gunboat Zélée and the ranking officer at Papeete—had his ship's 100 mm (3.9 in) stern gun and all of her 65 mm (2.6 in) and 37 mm (1.5 in) guns removed from his vessel and placed ashore to be used in place of Papeete's antiquated land batteries.[1] Several Ford trucks were turned into impromptu armored cars by mounting them with Zélée's 37 mm guns and 160 sailors and marines drilled in preparation to repel any German attempt at landing.[2] Zélée retained only her 100 mm bow gun and 10 men under the ship's second in command.[9] In addition to the gunboat and harbor fortifications, the French also had at Papeete the unarmed German freighter Walküre, which had been captured by Zélée at the start of the war.[10] Despite the French preparations, the two German cruisers were more than a match for the forces Destremau commanded at Papeete. Both Scharnhorst and Gneisenau heavily outgunned Zélée, each being armed with eight 210 mm (8.3 in) guns, six 150 mm (5.9 in) guns, eighteen 88 mm (3.5 in) guns, and four torpedo tubes. Spee's forces also outnumbered the French with over 1,500 sailors aboard their vessels, more than enough to form a landing party and overwhelm the forces Destremau had to oppose them.[11]
Battle[edit]
Die Kreuzer GNEISENAU und SCHARNHORST beschießen Papeete, die Hautpstadt von Tahiti
One of the turrets of Scharnhorst's main battery.
Captain Maxime Destremau (center) and his staff in Papeete in 1914.
At 07:00 on 22 September 1914, the French sighted two unidentified cruisers approaching the harbor of Papeete. The alarm was raised, the harbor's signal beacons destroyed, and three warning shots were fired by the French batteries to signal the approaching cruisers that they must identify themselves.[8] The cruisers replied with a shot of their own and raised the German colors, signaling the town to surrender. The French refused the German demands, and Spee's vessels began to shell the shore batteries and town from a distance of 6,000 m (6,600 yd).[12] The land batteries and the gunboat in the harbor returned fire but scored no hits on the armored cruisers. Having difficulty in discovering the exact position of the French batteries, the German cruisers soon turned their attention to the French shipping in the harbor.[13][14]
The French commander—Destremau—had ordered the coal piles burned at the start of the action and now smoke began billowing over the town. Zélée and Walküre were sighted and fired upon by the Germans. The French had begun to scuttle their vessels when the action had begun, but both were still afloat when Scharnhorst and Gneisenau began firing upon them and finished the two ships off. By now, most of the Papeete's inhabitants had fled and the town had caught fire from the German shelling, with two blocks of Papeete set alight.[15] With the coal piles destroyed and the threat of mines in the harbor, Spee saw no meaningful purpose in making a landing.[16] Accordingly, the German admiral withdrew his ships from Papeete's harbor by 11:00.[15] After leaving Papeete, the ships steamed out towards Nuku Hiva to meet Nürnberg, Titania, and colliers waiting there.[13]
Aftermath[edit]
Some of the damage done to the town of Papeete after it was bombarded by the Germans.
Picture of a battle damaged freighter half-sunk in shallow water
By the time Spee withdrew his ships, large portions of the town had been destroyed. Two entire blocks of Papeete had burnt to the ground before the fires were finally put out. A copra store, a market, and several other buildings and residences were among those destroyed by the shellfire and resulting inferno. While the majority of Papeete's civilians fled to the interior of the island as soon as the fighting began, a Japanese civilian and a Polynesian boy were both killed by German shellfire. Although the two French vessels in the harbor had been sunk, there were no military casualties on either side and the German vessels took no damage. Overall, the bombardment was estimated in 1915 to have caused over 2 million francs' worth of property damage, some of which was recouped through the seizure of a German store on the island.[4] In addition to the seizure of their property, several local Germans were interned and forced to repair the damage Spee's squadron had caused. Perhaps the most lasting effect of the bombardment on the French was the dramatic fall of copra prices in the region, as local suppliers had previously sold a majority of their produce to German merchants in the area who were now interned.[17] Further havoc and distress spread throughout the island 18 days after Spee's squadron had left when rumors started to spread that a second German bombardment was about to begin.[4]
After withdrawing, Scharnhorst and Gneisenau rendezvoused with Nürnberg and Titania at Nuku Hiva, where they resupplied and their crews took shore leave before moving on to meet the rest of the squadron at Easter Island.[13] Although the Germans had destroyed the shipping at Papeete and wreaked havoc in the town, they had been denied their primary objective of seizing the French coal piles and replenishing their own stocks. Spee's raid allowed the British Admiralty to receive word on his position and heading, allowing them to inform Rear Admiral Christopher Cradock of the German intentions thus leading to the Battle of Coronel.[18] Another effect was the reduction of ammunition available to the two German cruisers. The hundreds of shells fired by Spee's ships at Papeete were irreplaceable. The depletion of ammunition as a result of the action at Papeete contributed to the German East Asia Squadron's failure to adequately defend itself at the Battle of the Falkland Islands against British battlecruisers.[19] Lieutenant Destremau was chastised by his misinformed superior officer for his actions during the defense of Papeete and for the loss of the gunboat Zélée. He was summoned back to Toulon under arrest to be court-martialled but died of illness in 1915 before the trial. In 1918, Destremau was finally recognized for his actions at Papeete and was posthumously awarded the Légion d'honneur.[9]
Citations[edit]
^ a b c Halpern, p. 89
^ a b Gudmundsson, p. 2
^ a b Corbett, p. 312
^ a b c d e American Forestry, p. 558
^ Halpern, p. 88
^ Strachan, p. 472
^ Hough, p. 47
^ a b c Jose, p. 558
^ a b "Defending Tahiti – September 1914" (Press release) (in French). Noëlle Destremau. 9 March 1999. Archived from the original on 20 July 2011. Retrieved 8 February 2010.
^ American Forestry, p. 559
^ Gröner, p. 52
^ American Forestry, p. 553
^ a b c Hough, p. 48
^ Jose, p. 559
^ a b American Forestry, p. 554
^ Gudmundsson, p. 3
^ Davis, p. 1
^ Hough, p. 71
^ Freeman, p. 274
References[edit]
"Bombardment of Papeete". American Forestry. XXI. Washington, D.C.: The American Forestry Association. 1915. Retrieved 21 November 2009.
Corbett, J. S. (2009) [1938]. Naval Operations. History of the Great War based on Official Documents. Vol. I (2nd reprinted Imperial War Museum and N & M Press ed.). London: Longmans, Green. ISBN 978-1-84342-489-5. Retrieved 29 April 2015.
Davis, W. M. (1918). "The Reef-Encircled Islands of the Pacific". The Journal of Geography. XVII. Appleton, Wisconsin: The Post Publishing Co. Retrieved 22 November 2009.
Freeman, Lewis R. (1918). "The Story of the Cornwall". The World's Work. XXXVI. New York: Doubleday, Page & Company. Retrieved 21 November 2009.
Gröner, Erich (1990). German Warships 1815–1945 Volume One: Major Surface Vessels. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 0-87021-790-9.
Gudmundsson, Bruce I. (2004). On Armor. Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers. ISBN 0-275-95019-0.
Halpern, Paul G. (1995). A Naval History of World War I. Annapolis, MD: US Naval Institute Press. ISBN 1-55750-352-4.
Hough, Richard (2003). Falklands 1914: The Pursuit of Admiral Von Spee. Penzance, Cornwall: Periscope Publishing. ISBN 1-904381-12-X.
Jose, Arthur (1941). The Royal Australian Navy, 1914–1918. Official History of Australia in the War of 1914–1918. Vol. IX (9th ed.). Sydney: Angus & Robertson. Archived from the original on 4 October 2009.
Strachan, Hew (2001). The First World War: To Arms. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-820877-4.
Further reading[edit]
Gasse, Michel (2009). Tahiti 1914 – Le vent de guerre (in French). Lardy, France: A la frontière (maison d'édition). p. 352. ISBN 978-2-918665-00-7.
Heinz Burmester: Die Beschießung von Papeete durch deutsche Panzerkreuzer – ein neutraler Bericht, Deutsches Schiffahrtsarchiv 7, 1984, pp. 147–152.
vteFrench Polynesia articles
Archipelagos :
Austral Islands
Gambier Islands
Marquesas Islands
Society Islands
Leeward Islands
Windward Islands
Tuamotus Islands
History
Marquesas
Polynesian people
Kingdom of Tahiti
Monarchs
Pōmare dynasty
Kingdom of Bora Bora
Monarchs
Monarchs of Huahine
House of Teururai
Monarchs of Raiatea
Franco-Tahitian War
Jarnac Convention
Annexation of the Leeward Islands by France
Bombardment of Papeete
Geography
Administrative divisions
Climate
Cities and towns
Volcanoes
Wildlife
Politics
Elections
High Commissioner
Assembly
Political parties
President
Vice-President
Economy
CFP franc (currency)
Telecommunications
Transport
Culture
Anthem
Category
Coat of arms
Dance
Demographics
Education
Flag
Languages
Music
Order of Tahiti Nui
Mythology
Polynesians
Religion
Sports
OutlineIndex
Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bombardment_of_Papeete&oldid=1312775325"
Categories: 1914 in FranceConflicts in 1914History of French Polynesia1910s in French Polynesia1914 in Oceania1914 in the French colonial empireNaval battles of the Asian and Pacific Theatre (World War I)Naval battles of World War I involving FranceNaval battles of World War I involving GermanySeptember 1914Naval bombing operations and battles of World War IAttacks on naval basesAttacks on buildings and structures in OceaniaScorched earth operationsIndustrial fires and explosionsCoal mining disasters in Oceania1914 fires1910s fires in OceaniaAttacks on military installations in the 1910sHidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasCS1 French-language sources (fr)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataGood articlesUse dmy dates from September 2025Coordinates on Wikidata
This page was last edited on 22 September 2025, at 15:03 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Bombardment of Papeete
9 languages
Add topic