One big takeaway from Fed rate cuts: Bulk up on these two investments | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
One big takeaway from Fed rate cuts: Bulk up on these two investments
One big takeaway from Fed rate cuts: Bulk up on these two investments
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 19, 2025, 11:33:00 AM
By Louis Navellier
Investment manager Louis Navellier: Own more gold and AI-related tech stocks
The Federal Reserve isn't facing economic reality.
'This Fed has its head in the sand.'
I'm on record accusing the U.S. Federal Reserve of being ostriches with their heads in the sand. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) on Wednesday cut key interest rates by 25 basis points, as was widely anticipated. All members voted to cut rates, though FOMC member Stephen Miran was the sole "no" vote, as he preferred a cut twice that amount.
So did I.
The FOMC statement was dovish, saying, "Job gains have slowed and the unemployment rate has edged up." It then added that "downside risks to employment have risen." The problem is that many of the job losses are construction jobs, as builder sentiment remains poor.
Since President Donald Trump is a builder, I expect that he will bash Fed Chair Jerome Powell in the upcoming days. Remember, Trump said: "I think you have a big cut" and "It's perfect for cutting."
And if you are in the housing industry, or in any one of the upstream or downstream industries that depend on housing - from timber products to big-box stores - you probably think, like me, that this Fed has its head in the sand.
The truth is, the situation remains dire in the U.S. housing sector.
Recently, the Commerce Department reported that new housing starts declined to a 1.307 million annual pace in August, down substantially from a revised 1.429 million annual pace in July. Economists were expecting housing starts to come in at a 1.37 million pace in August, so the drop was bigger than expected.
The near future does not look promising.
Building permits declined to a 1.312 million annual pace in August, down from a revised 1.362 million annual pace in July.
Clearly, the housing industry needs the Fed to cut interest rates more to help the housing market recover.
But these Fed governors are all over the place.
The "dot plot" of selected FOMC showed six FOMC members forecast no further key interest rate cuts.
A nonvoting FOMC member objected, saying there should not have been any key interest-rate cut.
Two FOMC members forecast one additional key interest rate cut this year.
The hawks on the FOMC remain in charge, which caused Treasury bond yields to rise and helped the U.S. dollar DXY firm up.
One reason for the Fed's smaller interest-rate cut is that the Commerce Department reported that retail sales rose 0.6% in August, which was substantially higher than economists' consensus estimate of a 0.3% increase. Excluding vehicle sales, retail sales rose an even more impressive 0.7% in August. Online sales surged 2% in August.
Back-to-school sales apparently boosted clothing and accessories 1% in August, and sporting goods rose 0.8%. Nine of the 13 categories surveyed increased in August, which is a good sign that consumer spending is healthy. July retail sales were also revised up to a 0.6% increase, up from 0.5% previously reported.
But retail sales can be fickle. The housing and job markets are not fickle. They are responsive to the interest-rate environment and interest-rate policy. And that's another reason why this Fed has its head in the sand.
Where to put your money
Investors should make sure that their best defense remains a strong offense.
So what does an investor do now?
Continue to load up on gold (GC00) stocks due to a lack of worldwide confidence in central banks.
I am recommending eight gold stocks. The best one is Kincross Gold (KGC).
The other gold stocks I recommend are Agnico Eagle Mines (AEM), Alamos Gold (AGI), Caledonia Mining (CMCL), Eldorado Gold (EGO), Idaho Strategic Resources (IDR), OR Royalties (OR) and SSR Mining (SSRM).
An investor should also ensure that their best defense remains a strong offense. AI-related monopolies - including AppLovin (APP), which provides AI-software solutions; Nvidia (NVDA) in chips; and Palantir Technologies (PLTR) for AI automation - should be core holdings because they are characterized by incredibly strong forecast sales and earnings.
The AI data center build out is real. Some of the best stocks are Argan (AGX), Comfort Systems (FIX), Emcor Group (EME), GE Vernova (GEV), Power Solutions International (PSIX), Quanta Services (PWR), Super Micro Computer (SMCI) and Vertiv Holdings (VRT).
I also like Robinhood Markets (HOOD) because the SEC is clarifying the rules for crypto securities, in which Robinhood is a leader.
The U.S. remains an economic oasis compared with the rest of the world, which is largely in a demographic decline, led by China, which is characterized by hideous deflation on both the wholesale and consumer levels. Northern Europe also has demographic issues and is failing to assimilate immigrants, which may also put it in a deflationary environment.
I am expecting a global interest rate collapse that would trigger capital flight to the U.S. and drive Treasury yields lower in months.
As a result, I am still expecting a global interest rate collapse that would trigger capital flight to the U.S. and drive Treasury yields lower.
Unfortunately, this Fed is ignoring the deflationary forces spreading around the globe, as many major economies - including Britain, France and Germany - follow Asia's demographic decline that ends all hope for economic growth.
It is possible that AI will continue to boost productivity and GDP growth, despite demographic problems. However, a The Wall Street Journal recently cited that Stanford University computer science majors are struggling to get jobs, signals how uneven the AI revolution has become.
But even if AI-driven productivity helps grow GDP, it won't matter. This Fed will still have its head in the sand.
Louis Navellier is founder and chief investment officer of Reno, Nev.-based Navellier & Associates,Inc., a SEC-registered family office that manages more than $1 billion in assets.
Disclosures:
Navellier & Associates owns Kincross Gold (KGC), Agnico Eagle Mines (AEM), Alamos Gold (AGI), Caledonia Mining (CMCL), Eldorado Gold (EGO), Idaho Strategic Resources (IDR), OR Royalties (OR), SSR Mining (SSRM), AppLovin (APP), Nvidia (NVDA),Palantir Technologies (PLTR), Argan (AGX), Comfort Systems (FIX), Emcor Group (EME), GE Vernova (GEV), Power Solutions (PSIX), Quanta Services (PWR), Super Micro Computer (SMCI), Vertiv Holdings (VRT), and Robinhood Markets (HOOD). Louis Navellier and his family own,
Kincross Gold (KGC), Agnico Eagle Mines (AEM), Alamos Gold (AGI), Caledonia Mining (CMCL), Eldorado Gold (EGO), Idaho Strategic Resources (IDR), OR Royalties (OR), SSR Mining (SSRM), AppLovin (APP), Nvidia (NVDA),Palantir Technologies (PLTR), Argan (AGX), Comfort Systems (FIX), Emcor Group (EME), GE Vernova (GEV), Power Solutions (PSIX), Quanta Services (PWR), Super Micro Computer (SMCI), Vertiv Holdings (VRT), Robinhood Markets (HOOD) via a Navellier managed account and Nvidia (NVDA), and Palantir Technologies (PLTR) in a personal account.
More: Here's the case for equities to 'explode higher' in October. Buy any dips along the way, says JPMorgan.
Also read: Inflation fears surge to their highest levels since 'liberation day' as Fed cuts rates
-Louis Navellier
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-19-25 0733ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility