A Nintendo Switch emulator just popped up on the Google Play Store, and Nintendo likely won't be pleased
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
A Nintendo Switch emulator just popped up on the Google Play Store, and Nintendo likely won't be pleased
By
Simon Batt
Published 4 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Eden, a Yuzu fork, launched on Google Play as a high-performance Nintendo Switch emulator.
Nintendo has aggressively targeted emulators before; Eden risks legal action like Yuzu faced.
Putting Eden on Google Play invites Nintendo's ire; its future availability looks uncertain.
Nintendo is often embroiled in a battle against pirates and individuals who emulate its games. Every new hardware generation, Nintendo adds some new countermeasures to protect its systems, and people find a way to circumvent them. It ends up being an arms race until Nintendo pulls out the strongest counter-attack it can muster: full-blown legal action. The company's recent takedowns of emulators have left some developers rattled, even if Nintendo hasn't directly named them as a target. Some emulators have been shuttered due to the mere thought of drawing Nintendo's ire being too much for some, and honestly, I get it. Nintendo doesn't hold punches in the courtroom. So imagine my surprise when I hear the news that, not only is a Nintendo Switch emulator making trails on the internet, but that the developers have just uploaded it to the Google Play Store. Well, I definitely salute them for their bravery, if anything.
Eden Emulator has made its way onto the Google Play Store
As spotted by Notebook Check, the Eden Emulator has appeared on the Google Play Store. I'm not entirely sure how well my phone can run Breath of the Wild, but I'm sure people can find a use for it. The description is short, but it contains an interesting nugget of information:
Eden is a Nintendo Switch emulator, forked from Yuzu, focusing on high performance without compromising aesthetics, compatibility, or stability.
See that part I bolded? If you're unsure as to what Yuzu is, it was a Nintendo Switch emulator that people once flocked to. However, Nintendo accused its developers of allowing people to pirate The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom before its official release, and the emulator's creators were fined $2.4 million in damages. As such, seeing someone take a fork off of Yuzu and continue its legacy is pretty scary. Nintendo is likely to play whack-a-mole against anyone who tries to revive the emulator it has worked so hard to shut down, and putting Eden Emulator on the Google Play Store is sure to draw its ire. Whether or not it'll still be up this time next year is yet to be seen. If you'd rather not dip a toe into emulation and want to check out Nintendo's newest console, check out how our editor picked up a Nintendo Switch 2, and it's a bigger upgrade than they expected. Also, check out when one of our writers played Nintendo Switch 2 Welcome Tour, so you don't have to.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
14 hours ago
This free tool basically adds Restore on AC Power Loss to devices that don't support it
1 day ago
We loved these dinosaur games and want to see them return on current day consoles
1 day ago
4 reasons a managed switch was the smartest home networking upgrade I made
8 hours ago
This free tool might finally tell you why your PC is suddenly slowing down
More from our brands
Best Games To Play If You Liked Legend Of Zelda: Breath Of The Wild
Nintendo Lawyer Breaks Silence on the Company's Stance on Emulators
New Nintendo EULA Says It Can Render Consoles 'Permanently Unusable' If Piracy or Modifications Are Detected
Switch 2 Is The End Of An Era For An Iconic Nintendo Series
The Hydra lives on: How Nintendo's war on emulators feeds the beast
Best Order To Play All Mainline Zelda Games
Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom load significantly faster on Switch 2
Today's best deals
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
4 hours ago
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
17 hours ago
This mini PC with an Intel Core i7 is going to blow you away, and it's now $200 off
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 weirdest things I've 3D printed that I actually use
Star Wars games don't need to be in the High Republic because they can explore these eras instead
This free writing app is still in beta but it's already replacing Google Docs for me
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.