The 2 biggest AI features that you should try on your iPhone 17 and AirPods ASAP | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
The 2 biggest AI features that you should try on your iPhone 17 and AirPods ASAP
Apple focused on its cutting-edge hardware for the iPhone 17 launch but also unveiled a couple of groundbreaking AI features. Both could make a big difference in daily use.
Written by
Jason Hiner, Editor in ChiefEditor in Chief
Sept. 20, 2025 at 12:00 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETWhile we didn't hear much about Siri or Apple Intelligence during the 2025 Apple Event that launched new iPhones, AirPods, and Apple Watches, there were two huge AI features announced that have largely slipped under the radar. That's mostly because they were presented as great new features and didn't use overhyped AI marketing language.Nevertheless, I got to demo both features at Apple Park earlier this month and my first impression was that both of them are nearly fully baked and ready to start improving daily life -- and those are my favorite kinds of features to talk about.Also: 5 new AI-powered features that flew under the radar at Apple's launch eventHere's what they are:1. A selfie camera that automatically frames the best shotApple has implemented a new kind of front-facing camera. This uses a square sensor and increases the resolution of the sensor from 12 megapixels on previous models to 24MP. However, because the sensor is square, it actually outputs 18MP images. The real trick is that it can output in either vertical or horizontal formats.In fact, you don't even have to turn the phone to switch between vertical and horizontal mode any more. You can now simply keep the phone in one hand and in the vertical or horizontal position you prefer, you can tap the rotate button and it will flip from vertical to horizontal and vice versa. And because it has an ultrawide sensor with double the megapixels, it can take equally crisp photos in either orientation. Now, here's where the AI comes in. You can set the front-facing camera to Auto Zoom and Auto Rotate. Then, it will automatically find faces in your shot and it will widen or tighten the shot and decide whether a vertical or horizontal orientation will work best to fit everyone in the picture. Apple calls this its "Center Stage" feature, which is the same term it uses for centering you in the middle of the screen for a video call on the iPad and the Mac.Also: Every iPhone 17 model comparedThe feature technically uses machine learning, but it's still fair to call this an AI feature. The Center Stage branding is a little bit confusing though, because the selfie camera on iPhone 17 is used for photos while the feature on iPad and Mac is for video calls. The selfie camera feature is also aimed at photos with multiple people, while the iPad/Mac feature is primarily used with just you in the frame. Still, after trying it on various demo iPhones at Apple Park after the keynote on Tuesday, it's easy to call this the smartest and best selfie camera I've seen. I have no doubt that other phone makers will start copying this feature in 2026. And the best part is that Apple didn't just limit it to this year's high-end iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max, but put it on the standard iPhone 17 and the iPhone Air as well. That's great news for consumers, who took 500 billion selfies on iPhones last year according to Apple. 2. Live Translation in AirPods Pro 3I've said this many times before, but language translation is one of the best and most accurate uses for Large Language Models. In fact, it's one of the best things you can do with generative AI. It has enabled companies like Apple that lag far behind Google and others in its language translation app to take big strides forward in implementing language translation features into key products. While Google Translate supports 249 different languages, Apple's Translate app supports 20. Google Translate has been around since 2006 while Apple's Translate app launched in 2020. Also: AirPods Pro 3 vs. AirPods Pro 2: Here's who should upgradeNevertheless, while Google has been doing demos for years showing real-time translation in its phones and earbuds, none of the features have ever really worked very well in the real world. Google again made a big deal about real-time translation during its Pixel 10 launch event in August, but even during the onstage demo the feature hiccuped a bit. Enter Apple. Alongside the AirPods Pro 3, it launched its own live translation feature. And while the number of languages isn't as broad, the implementation is a lot smoother and more user friendly. I got an in-person demo of this with a group of other journalists at Apple Park on Tuesday after the keynote.
Nina Raemont/ZDNETA Spanish speaker came into the room and started speaking while we had AirPods Pro 3 in our ears and an iPhone 17 Pro in our hands with the Live Translation feature turned on. The AirPods Pro 3 immediately went into ANC mode and started translating the words spoken in Spanish into English so that we could look into the person's face during the conversation while hearing their words in our own language without the distraction of hearing the words in both languages. And I know enough Spanish to understand that the translation was pretty accurate -- with no hiccups in this case. It was only one brief demo, but it traded the tricks of Google's Pixel 10 demo (trying to put the words and intonation into an AI-cloned voice of the speaker) for more practical usability. Apple's version is a beta feature that will be limited to English, Spanish, French, German, and Portuguese to start. Also: I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gapAnd to be clear, the iPhone does most of the processing work while the AirPods make the experience better by automatically invoking noise cancellation. But because of that, the feature isn't just limited to AirPods Pro 3. It will also work with AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods 4, as long as they are connected to a phone that can run Apple Intelligence (iPhone 15 Pro or newer). That's another win for consumers.Since I'm planning to test both the Pixel 10 Pro XL with Pixel Buds Pro 2 as well as the iPhone 17 Pro Max with AirPods Pro 3, I'll put their new translation features head-to-head to see how well they perform. Every week, I'm in contact with friends and community members who speak one or more of the supported languages, so I'll have ample opportunities to put it to work in the real world and then share what I learn.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use