French Navy - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Origins
2
Names and symbols
3
History
Toggle History subsection
3.1
17th century
3.2
18th century
3.3
19th century
3.4
20th and 21st centuries
4
Organisation
Toggle Organisation subsection
4.1
Main naval bases
5
Equipment
Toggle Equipment subsection
5.1
Ships and submarines
5.2
Aircraft
6
Personnel
Toggle Personnel subsection
6.1
Application requirement
6.1.1
Seamen
6.1.2
Petty officers
6.1.3
Contract officers
6.1.4
Career officers
7
Customs and traditions
Toggle Customs and traditions subsection
7.1
Ranks
7.1.1
Commissioned officer ranks
7.1.2
Other ranks
7.2
Addressing officers
7.3
Uniforms
7.4
Military music
8
Future
9
French naval officers
Toggle French naval officers subsection
9.1
Privateers
9.2
Heroes of the First Republic
9.3
Explorers
9.4
Other important French naval officers
9.5
Notable people who served in the French Navy
10
See also
Toggle See also subsection
10.1
Marine nationale
11
Notes
12
References
13
Further reading
14
External links
Toggle the table of contents
French Navy
43 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançais한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתमराठीBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNouormandپنجابیភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng Việt粵語中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Maritime arm of the French Armed Forces
This article is about the military of France. For the 2009 single by Camera Obscura, see My Maudlin Career.
"la Royale" redirects here. For other topics, see Royale (disambiguation).
French NavyMarine nationaleLogo of the French Navy since 2021Founded1626; 399 years ago (1626)Country FranceTypeNavyRoleNaval warfareSize40,000+ personnel (2025)[1] and 7,000 civilians (2021)180 ships[2]178 aircraft[3]
FAN
FSM
AVIA
FORFUSCO
Marins Pompiers
Gendarmerie Maritime
Service de soutien de la Flotte
Garrison/HQMain: Brest, Île Longue, ToulonSecondary: Cherbourg, LorientFrench overseas territories: Fort de France, Degrad des Cannes, Port des Galets, Dzaoudzi, Nouméa, PapeeteOverseas: Dakar, Djibouti, Abu DhabiNickname(s)La RoyaleMotto(s)Honneur, patrie, valeur, discipline ("Honour, homeland, valour, discipline")ColoursBlue, white, redShipsCurrent fleetEngagements
See list
Anglo-French War (1627–1629) Franco-Spanish War (1635–59) Second Anglo-Dutch War Franco-Dutch War Nine Years' War War of the Spanish Succession War of the Austrian Succession Seven Years' War American Revolutionary War Anglo-French War (1778–1783) French Revolutionary Wars Napoleonic Wars French conquest of Algeria Battle of the Tagus Pastry WarCrimean War Second French intervention in Mexico Sino-French War French conquest of Morocco World War I World War II Indochina War Korean War Algerian War Operation Musketeer Bizerte crisis Lebanese Civil War Gulf War Yugoslav Wars Kosovo War 1999 East Timorese crisis War on Terror War in Afghanistan Opération Harmattan Red Sea crisis
*Operation Aspides
Websitedefense.gouv.fr/marineCommandersChief of the Armed ForcesPresident Emmanuel MacronChef d'État-Major de la Marine, CEMMAmiral Nicolas VaujourMajor Général de la MarineVice-amiral d'escadre Stanislas Gourlez de la MotteNotablecommandersSee list:
Louis Victor de Rochechouart, Duke of Vivonne
Anne Hilarion de Tourville
Jean Bart
François Joseph Paul de Grasse
Charles-Alexandre Léon Durand Linois
Guy-Victor Duperré
Henri de Rigny
Amédée Courbet
InsigniaInsigniaRanks in the French NavyNaval ensignAircraft flownAttackRafale MElectronicwarfareE-2 HawkeyeFighterRafale MHelicopterNH90, Eurocopter Lynx, Panther, DauphinAttack helicopterNH90, PantherPatrolBréguet 1150 Atlantic, Dassault Falcon 20,
Dassault Falcon 50, Dassault Falcon 2000TrainerMudry CAP 10, MS-88 Rallye, Dassault Falcon 10, Embraer EMB 121 XinguTransportDassault Falcon 10, Embraer EMB 121 XinguMilitary unit
Marine nationaleParent unitArmées françaises (French military)Components
Force d'action navale
Forces sous-marines (FOST, ESNA)
Aviation navale
FORFUSCO (Commandos Marine and Fusiliers marins)
Gendarmerie Maritime
Bataillon des marins pompiers de Marseille
Commissariat
Service de soutien de la flotte
Service hydrographique et océanographique de la marine
Service de l'aéronautique navale
The French Navy (French: Marine nationale, pronounced [maʁin nɑsjɔnal], lit. 'National Navy'), informally La Royale (French pronunciation: [la ʁwajal], lit. 'The Royal [One]'), is the maritime arm of the French Armed Forces and one of the four military service branches of France. It is among the largest and most powerful naval forces in the world recognised as being a blue-water navy.[4][5][6] The French Navy is capable of operating globally and conducting expeditionary missions, maintaining a significant overseas presence. The French Navy is one of eight naval forces currently operating fixed-wing aircraft carriers,[Note 1] with its flagship Charles de Gaulle being the only nuclear-powered aircraft carrier outside the United States Navy, and one of two non-American vessels to use catapults to launch aircraft.[7][8]
Founded in the 17th century, the French Navy is one of the oldest navies still in continuous service, with precursors dating back to the Middle Ages. It has taken part in key events in French history, including the Napoleonic Wars and both world wars, and played a critical role in establishing and securing the French colonial empire for over 400 years. The French Navy pioneered several innovations in naval technology, including the first steam-powered ship of the line, first seagoing ironclad warship, first mechanically propelled submarine, first steel-hulled warship, and first armoured cruiser.
The French Navy consists of six main components: the Naval Action Force, the Submarine Forces (FOST and ESNA), French Naval Aviation, the Navy Riflemen (including Naval Commandos), the Marseille Naval Fire Battalion, and the Maritime Gendarmerie. As of 2021, the French Navy employed 44,000 personnel (37,000 military and 7,000 civilian), more than 180 ships, 200 aircraft, and six commandos units;[9] as of 2014, its reserve element numbered roughly 48,000.[10]
It operates a wide range of fighting vessels, including various aeronaval forces, attack and ballistic missile submarines, frigates, patrol boats and support ships, with aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle serving as the centerpiece of most expeditionary forces.
Origins[edit]
The history of French naval power dates back to the Middle Ages, and had three loci of evolution:
The Mediterranean Sea, where the Ordre de Saint-Jean de Jérusalem had its own navy, the Levant Fleet, whose principal ports were Fréjus, Marseille, and Toulon. The Ordre, which was both a religious and military order, recruited knights from the families of French nobility. Members who had fulfilled their service at sea were granted the rank of Knights Hospitaller, elites who served as the officer corps. The Ordre was one of the ancestors of modern French naval schools including the French Naval Academy.
The Manche along Normandy which, since William the Conqueror, always tendered capable marines and sailors from its numerous active seaports.
The Atlantic Ocean, where the navy of the Duchy of Brittany eventually constituted the nucleus of the royal Flotte du Ponant, which projected French naval power across the Atlantic and the Americas.
Names and symbols[edit]
The first true French Royal Navy (French: la Marine Royale) was established in 1626 by Cardinal Richelieu, chief minister to King Louis XIII. During the French Revolution, la Marine Royale was formally renamed la Marine Nationale. Under the First French Empire and the Second French Empire, the navy was designated as the Imperial French Navy (la Marine impériale française). Institutionally, however, the navy has never lost its short familiar nickname, la Royale.
The original symbol of the French Navy was a golden anchor, which, beginning in 1830, was interlaced by a sailing rope; this symbol was featured on all naval vessels, arms, and uniforms.[11] Although anchor symbols are still used on uniforms, a new naval logo was introduced in 1990 under Naval Chief of Staff Bernard Louzeau, featuring a modern design that incorporates the tricolour—by flanking the bow section of a white warship with two ascending red and blue spray foams—and the inscription "Marine nationale".
History[edit]
Main article: History of the French Navy
French Armed Forces
Components
Armée de l'Air et de l'Espace
Armée de Terre
Marine nationale
Gendarmerie
Garde nationale
Ranks
Ranks in the French Army
Ranks in the French Navy
Ranks in the French Air and Space Force
History
Military history of France
La Grande Armée
vte
The historic "Golden Anchor" symbol
17th century[edit]
Cardinal Richelieu personally supervised the Navy until his death in 1643.[12] He was succeeded by his protégé, Jean Baptiste Colbert, who introduced the first code of regulations of the French Navy and established the original naval dockyards in Brest and Toulon.[12] Colbert and his son, the Marquis de Seignelay, between them administered the Navy for twenty-nine years.[12]
During this century, the Navy cut its teeth in the Anglo-French War (1627–1629), the Franco-Spanish War (1635–59), the Second Anglo-Dutch War, the Franco-Dutch War, and the Nine Years' War. Major battles in these years include the Battle of Augusta, Battle of Beachy Head, the Battles of Barfleur and La Hougue, the Battle of Lagos, and the Battle of Texel.
18th century[edit]
Armament of a frigate in Brest, 1773
The 1700s opened with the War of the Spanish Succession, over a decade long, followed by the War of the Austrian Succession in the 1740s. Principal engagements of these wars include the Battle of Vigo Bay and two separate Battles of Cape Finisterre in 1747. The most grueling conflict for the Navy, however, was the Seven Years' War, in which it was virtually destroyed.[12] Significant actions include the Battle of Cap-Français, the Battle of Quiberon Bay, and another Battle of Cape Finisterre.
The Navy regrouped and rebuilt, and within 15 years it was eager to join the fray when France intervened in the American Revolutionary War.[12] Though outnumbered everywhere, the French fleets held the British at bay for years until victory.[12] After this conflict and the concomitant Anglo-French War (1778–1783), the Navy emerged at a new height in its history.[12] Major battles in these years include the Battle of the Chesapeake, the Battle of Cape Henry, the Battle of Grenada, the invasion of Dominica, and three separate Battles of Ushant.
Within less than a decade, however, the Navy was decimated by the French Revolution when large numbers of veteran officers were dismissed or executed for their noble lineage.[12] Nonetheless, the Navy fought vigorously through the French Revolutionary Wars as well as the Quasi-War. Significant actions include a fourth Battle of Ushant (known in English as the Glorious First of June), the Battle of Groix, the Atlantic campaign of May 1794, the French expedition to Ireland, the Battle of Tory Island, and the Battle of the Nile.
19th century[edit]
Napoleon inspecting the fleet of Cherbourg in May 1811 (by Rougeron and Vignerot)
Other engagements of the Revolutionary Wars ensued in the early 1800s, including the Battle of the Malta Convoy and the Algeciras Campaign. The Quasi-War wound down with single-ship actions including USS Constellation vs La Vengeance and USS Enterprise vs Flambeau.
When Napoleon was crowned Emperor in 1804, he attempted to restore the Navy to a position that would enable his plan for an invasion of England.[12] His dreams were dashed by the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, where the British all but annihilated a combined Franco-Spanish fleet, a disaster that guaranteed British naval superiority throughout the Napoleonic Wars. Still, the Navy did not shrink from action: among the engagements of this time were the Battle of the Basque Roads, the Battle of Grand Port, the Mauritius campaign of 1809–11, and the Battle of Lissa.
After Napoleon's fall in 1815, the long era of Anglo-French rivalry on the seas began to close, and the Navy became more of an instrument for expanding the French colonial empire.[12] Under King Charles X, the two nations' fleets fought side by side in the Battle of Navarino, and throughout the rest of the century they generally behaved in a manner that paved the way for the Entente Cordiale.[12]
Charles X sent a large fleet to execute the invasion of Algiers in 1830. The next year, his successor, Louis Philippe I, made a show of force against Portugal at the Battle of the Tagus, and in 1838 conducted another display of gunboat diplomacy, this time in Mexico at the Battle of Veracruz. Beginning in 1845, a five-year Anglo-French blockade of the Río de la Plata was imposed on Argentina over trade rights.
The Emperor Napoleon III was determined to follow an even stronger foreign policy than his predecessors, and the Navy was involved in a multitude of actions around the world. He joined in the Crimean War in 1854; major actions for the Navy include the siege of Petropavlovsk and the Battle of Kinburn. The Navy was heavily involved in the Cochinchina Campaign in 1858, the Second Opium War in China, and the French intervention in Mexico. It took part in the French expedition to Korea and the Shimonoseki campaign. In the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, the Navy imposed an effective blockade of Germany, but events on land proceeded at such a rapid pace that it was superfluous. Isolated engagements between French and German ships took place in other theaters, but the war was over in a matter of weeks.[13][14]
The Navy continued to protect colonial safety and expansion under the French Third Republic. The Sino-French War saw considerable naval action including the Battle of Fuzhou, the Battle of Shipu, and the Pescadores Campaign. In Vietnam, the Navy helped wage the Tonkin Campaign which included the Battle of Thuận An, and it later participated in the Franco-Siamese conflict of 1893.
The 19th century French Navy brought forth numerous new technologies. It led the development of naval artillery with its invention of the highly effective Paixhans gun. In 1850, Napoléon became the first steam-powered ship of the line in history, and Gloire became the first seagoing ironclad warship nine years later. In 1863, the Navy launched Plongeur, the first submarine in the world to be propelled by mechanical power. In 1876, Redoutable became the first steel-hulled warship ever. In 1887, Dupuy de Lôme became the world's first armoured cruiser.
During the latter part of the century, French officers developed the so-called Jeune École (Young School) theory that emphasized the use of small, cheap torpedo boats to destroy expensive battleships, coupled with long-range commerce raiders to attack an opponent's merchant fleet.
20th and 21st centuries[edit]
Battleship Richelieu, 1943
The first seaplane, the French Fabre Hydravion, was flown in 1910, and the first seaplane carrier, Foudre, was christened in the following year.[15] Despite that innovation, the general development of the French Navy slowed down in the beginning of the 20th century as the naval arms race between Germany and Great Britain grew in intensity.
It entered World War I with relatively few modern vessels, and during the war few warships were built because the main French effort was on land. While the British held control of the North Sea, the French held the Mediterranean, where they mostly kept watch on the Austro-Hungarian Navy.[12] The largest operations of the Navy were conducted during the Dardanelles Campaign.[12] In December 1916, during the Noemvriana events, French warships also bombarded Athens, trying to force the pro-German government of Greece to change its policies.[16] The French Navy also played an important role in countering Germany's U-boat campaign by regularly patrolling the seas and escorting convoys.[12]
A Cassard-class frigate
Between the World Wars, the Navy modernized and expanded significantly, even in the face of limitations set by the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty.[12] New additions included the heavy and fast Fantasque class "super-destroyers", the Richelieu-class battleships, and the submarine Surcouf which was the largest and most powerful of its day.
From the start of World War II, the Navy was involved in a number of operations, participating in the Battle of the Atlantic, the Norwegian Campaign, the Dunkirk evacuation and, briefly, the Battle of the Mediterranean. However, after the fall of France in June 1940, the Navy was obligated to remain neutral under the terms of the armistice that created the truncated state of Vichy France. Worldwide, some 100 naval vessels and their crews heeded General Charles de Gaulle's call to join forces with the British, but the bulk of the fleet, including all its capital ships, transferred loyalty to Vichy French Navy (Marine de Vichy). Concerned that the German Navy might somehow gain control of the ships, the British mounted an attack on Mers-el-Kébir, the Algerian city where many of them were harbored. The incident poisoned Anglo-French relations, leading to Vichy reprisals and a full-scale naval battle at Casablanca in 1942 when the Allies invaded French North Africa. But the confrontations were set aside once the Germans occupied Vichy France. The capital ships were a primary goal of the occupation, but before they could be seized they were scuttled by their own crews. A few small ships and submarines managed to escape in time, and these joined de Gaulle's Free French Naval Forces, an arm of Free France that fought as an adjunct of the Royal Navy until the end of the war. In the Pacific theatre as well, Free French vessels operated until the Japanese capitulation; Richelieu was present at the Japanese Instrument of Surrender.
The Navy later provided fire support and troop transport in the Indochina War, the Algerian War, the Gulf War, and the Kosovo War.
Since 2000, the Navy has given logistical support to the War in Afghanistan (2001–2021) as well as the global War on Terror. In 2011, it assisted Opération Harmattan in Libya.
The French Navy as planned for the late 2030s: a Bâtiment ravitailleur de forces (fleet tanker) conducts simultaneous underway replenishment with the Future French aircraft carrier and with a Frégate de défense et d'intervention (Defence and Intervention Frigate).
Organisation[edit]
French navy facilities in metropolitan France (status 2015)
The chief of the naval staff is Vice-admiral d’escadre Arnaud de Tarlé,[17] and as of 2014 the Navy has an active strength of 36,776 military personnel and 2,909 civilian staff.[18] The Navy is organised into four main operational branches:
The Force d'Action Navale (Naval Action Force) – Surface fleet.
The Forces Sous-marines (Submarine forces) – Nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines and fleet submarines.
The Aviation Navale (Naval air force) – Ground and sea-based aircraft.
The Fusiliers Marins (Naval riflemen) – Protection force and infantry including the Navy special forces (Commandos Marine).
In addition, the National Gendarmerie of France maintain a maritime force of patrol boats that falls under the operational command of the French Navy:
The Gendarmerie maritime – The coast guard of France.
During most of the Cold War, the Navy was organised in two squadrons based in Brest and Toulon, commanded by ALESCLANT (Amiral commandant l'escadre de l'Atlantique) and ALESCMED (Amiral commandant l'escadre de la Méditerranée) respectively. Since the post-Cold War restructuring process named Optimar '95, the two components have been divided into the Naval Action Force (commanded by ALFAN) and the Antisubmarine Group (commanded by ALGASM).[19]
Main naval bases[edit]
As of 2014, the largest French naval base is the military port of Toulon. Other major bases in metropolitan France are the Brest Arsenal and Île Longue on the Atlantic, and Cherbourg Naval Base on the English Channel. Overseas French bases include Fort de France and Degrad des Cannes in the Americas; Port des Galets and Dzaoudzi in the Indian Ocean; and Nouméa and Papeete in the Pacific. In addition, the navy shares or leases bases in foreign locales such as Abu Dhabi, Dakar and Djibouti.
Equipment[edit]
The Horizon-class frigate Chevalier Paul
Illustration: Patrouilleur Outre-mer
The Rubis-class submarine Casabianca in 2005
A French Navy AS365 F Dauphin helicopter
Ships and submarines[edit]
Main article: List of active French Navy ships
Although French naval doctrine calls for two aircraft carriers, the French only have one, Charles de Gaulle. Originally a planned order for French aircraft carrier PA2 was based on the design of the British Queen Elizabeth-class aircraft carrier recently constructed and launched for the British Royal Navy. However, the French programme had been delayed several times for budgetary reasons and the result was priority being given to the more exportable FREMM project. In April 2013 it was confirmed that the second aircraft carrier project would be abandoned due to defence cuts announced in the 2013 French White Paper on Defence and National Security.
The French Navy operates three amphibious assault ships, eleven destroyers (classified in the French Navy as surface combatants of the "first rank"), five general purpose frigates and has a commitment to six fleet submarines (SSNs). These vessels, with the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle, constitute the French Navy's main ocean-going war-fighting force, while the four ballistic missile submarines (SSBN) of the navy's Strategic Oceanic Force provide the backbone of the French nuclear deterrent.
In addition the French Navy operates six light surveillance frigates and, as of 2024, five avisos (originally light corvettes now reclassified as offshore patrol vessels). They undertake the navy's offshore patrol duties, the protection of French naval bases and territorial waters, and can also provide low-end escort capabilities to any oceangoing task force. The Navy also operates a fleet of additional offshore and coastal patrol vessels, mine countermeasures vessels as well as auxiliaries and support ships.
Aircraft[edit]
Main article: List of active military aircraft of the French Armed Forces
See also: French Naval Aviation
The French Naval Aviation is officially known as the Aéronautique navale and was created on the 19 June 1998 with the merging of Naval patrol aircraft and aircraft carrier squadrons. It has a strength of around 6,800 civilian and military personnel operating from four airbases in Metropolitan France. The Aéronavale has been modernized with 40 Rafale fighters which operate from the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle.
Personnel[edit]
Personnel strength of the French Navy 2015
Category
Strength
Commissioned officers
4,500
Petty officers
23,600
Seamen
6,600
Volunteers
767
Civilian employees
2,800
Source:[20]
Application requirement[edit]
Seamen[edit]
Seamen must be at least 17 but no more than 30 years old, with no minimum level of schooling.
Petty officers[edit]
Petty officers must be at least 17 but no more than 30 years old, with at least a high school diploma giving access to university studies.
Petty officer candidates begin training with five months at the Petty Officer School of Maistrance at Brest.
Contract officers[edit]
Contract officers serve on an initial eight-year contract, renewable up to 20 years.
Operational officers must be 21 to 26 years old, with at least a Bachelor of Science degree, or having passed a classe préparatoire aux grandes écoles in engineering or business.
Staff officers have to be 21 to 29 years old, with an honors degree or master's degree in a field corresponding to the military occupational specialty.
Career officers[edit]
Less than 22 years old, having passed a classe préparatoire in science. After four years at the École Navale (naval academy) a cadet will graduate as a commissioned Enseigne de Vaisseau with an engineering degree.
Less than 25 years old, having an honors degree in science. After three years at the naval academy a cadet will graduate as Enseigne de Vaisseau with an engineering degree.
Less than 27 years old, having a master's degree. After two years at the naval academy a cadet will graduate as an Enseigne de Vaisseau.
Customs and traditions[edit]
Ranks[edit]
Main article: Ranks in the French Navy
The rank insignia of the French Navy are worn on shoulder straps of shirts and white jackets, and on sleeves for navy jackets and mantels. Until 2005, only commissioned officers had an anchor on their insignia, but enlisted personnel are now receiving them as well. Commanding officers have titles of capitaine, but are called commandant (in the army, both capitaine and commandant are ranks, which tends to stir some confusion among the public). The two highest ranks, vice-amiral d'escadre and amiral (admiral), are functions, rather than ranks. They are assumed by officers ranking vice-amiral (vice admiral). The only amiral de la flotte (Admiral of the Fleet) was François Darlan after he was refused the dignity of amiral de France (Admiral of France). Equivalent to the dignity of Marshal of France, the rank of amiral de France remains theoretical in the Fifth Republic; it was last granted in 1869, during the Second Empire, but retained during the Third Republic until the death of its bearer in 1873. The title of amiral de la flotte was created so that Darlan would not have an inferior rank than his counterpart in the British Royal Navy, who had the rank of Admiral of the Fleet.
Commissioned officer ranks[edit]
The rank insignia of commissioned officers.
NATO code
OF-10
OF-9
OF-8
OF-7
OF-6
OF-5
OF-4
OF-3
OF-2
OF-1
French Navy[21]vte
Amiral de France
Amiral
Vice-amiral d'escadre
Vice-amiral
Contre-amiral
Capitaine de vaisseau
Capitaine de frégate
Capitaine de corvette
Lieutenant de vaisseau
Enseigne de vaisseau de 1re classe
Enseigne de vaisseau de 2e classe
Other ranks[edit]
The rank insignia of non-commissioned officers and enlisted personnel.
NATO code
OR-9
OR-8
OR-7
OR-6
OR-5
OR-4
OR-3
OR-2
OR-1
French Navy[21]vte
Major
Maître principal
Premier maître
Maître
Second-maître
Quartier-maître de 1ère classe
Quartier-maître de 2ème classe
Matelot breveté
Matelot
Addressing officers[edit]
Unlike in the French Army and Air and Space Force, one does not prepend mon to the name of the rank when addressing an officer (that is, not mon capitaine, but simply capitaine).[22]
Uniforms[edit]
See also: Military uniform § France, and Fusiliers marins § Uniforms
Winter Uniform (22)
Summer Uniform (26)
Overseas (25)
Light Duty Firefighter Suit
Gendarmerie Maritime personnel
Military music[edit]
The Brest band before its deactivation in 2012.
The main military musical unit of the French Navy is the Military Band of the Toulon Fleet (French: La musique des équipages de la flotte de Toulon), founded on 13 July 1827.[23] The Bagad Lann Bihoue, based on the bagad bands in Bretagne, is currently the sole pipe band in the service of the French Navy, which uses bagpipes and bombards, and thus is affiliated to the band.
In Canada, French naval music has affected the traditions of Canadian navy bands. French navy bands in the country date back to the era of New France.[24] Musical units were primarily attached to the Compagnies Franches de la Marine and the Troupes de la marine, the former of which maintained two drums (tambour) and a fife.
Future[edit]
Main article: Future of the French Navy
A FREMM multipurpose frigate
EDA-R landing craft
Barracuda-class submarine
France's financial problems have affected all branches of her military. The 2013 French White Paper on Defence and National Security cancelled the long-planned new aircraft carrier and a possible fourth Mistral-class amphibious assault ship.[25] The backbone of the fleet will be the Aquitaine-class FREMM anti-submarine frigates, replacing the Georges Leygues class, but plans to buy a possible seventeen FREMMs were cut back to eleven and then to eight. The cancellation of the third and fourth Horizon destroyers meant that the last two FREMM hulls, which entered service between 2021 and 2023, are fitted out as FREDA air-defence ships to replace the Cassard class.[26] DCNS has shown a FREMM-ER concept to meet this requirement, emphasising ballistic missile defence with the Thales Sea Fire 500 AESA radar.[27] Industrial considerations mean that the funds for FREMMs 9-11 are now being spent on five more exportable Frégate de Défense et d'Intervention (FDI, "intermediate size frigates") from 2024 to supplement, and ultimately replace, the La Fayette class, three of which are being upgraded with new sonars to operate into the early 2030s.[28] With respect to support ships, the Durance class are being replaced under the FLOTLOG project by up to four derivatives of Italy's Vulcano-class logistic support ship, with three being delivered from 2023 to 2027.[29] A fourth potential ship is delayed until after 2030.[30]
Construction has started on the first of six Barracuda-class nuclear attack submarines; commissioning of Suffren took place in 2020. These nuclear attack submarines are to be followed in the 2030s by the incremental introduction of a new class of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs) whose construction began in 2024.
The first MM40 Exocet Block 3 missile was test-fired in 2010 to be produced. Naval versions of the SCALP EG land-attack cruise missile are under development, along with a planned Aster Block 1NT with greater capabilities against ballistic missiles.
In October 2018, the French Ministry of Defence launched an 18-month study for €40 million for the eventual future replacement of the aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle beyond 2030. A decision to build the new carrier was taken by President Emmanuel Macron in 2020[31] and once it enters service it is anticipated to remain in service until beyond 2080.[32][33] Construction of the new carrier is to begin in around 2025 with service entry anticipated in the latter 2030s.
French naval officers[edit]
Privateers[edit]
Lieutenant général des Armées navales du Casse
Lieutenant général des Armées navales Duguay-Trouin
Chef d'escadre Jean Bart
Chef d'escadre Pierre Bouvet
Cassard
Surcouf
Thurot
Heroes of the First Republic[edit]
admiral de Latouche-Tréville
Vice-admiral de Villaret-Joyeuse
Vice-admiral Bruix
Rear Admiral du Chayla
Capitaine de vaisseau du Petit Thouars
Capitaine de vaisseau Casabianca
Explorers[edit]
Lieutenant général des Armées navales Bougainville
Chef d'escadre d'Entrecasteaux
Chef d'escadre Dumont d'Urville
Chef de Division Lapérouse
Captain Samuel de Champlain
Captain d'Iberville
Captain Nicolas Baudin
Captain Louis de Freycinet
Commander Doudart de Lagrée
Lieutenant de St Aloüarn
Lieutenant Francis Garnier
Lieutenant Savorgnan de Brazza
Other important French naval officers[edit]
Admiral Florent de Varennes—first admiral of France
Admiral Jean de Vienne—admiral of the French fleet during the Hundred Years' War
Admiral Hervé de Portzmoguer— Breton naval commander, renowned for his raids on the English and his death in the Battle of St. Mathieu
Admiral d'Estaing—admiral of the French fleet which helped the United States secure independence
Admiral de Grasse—commander of the French fleet at Chesapeake Bay during the American Revolutionary War.
Admiral Courbet-commander of the Far East Squadron.
Vice-Admiral Tourville—commander of the French fleet at the Battle of Beachy Head
Vice-Admiral Villeneuve—commander of the French and Spanish fleets at the Battle of Trafalgar
Vice-Admiral Duquesne—commander of the French fleet at the Battle of Agosta
Lieutenant commander Paul Teste, pioneer of the modern aeronaval operations.
Vice-Admiral Jean-Paul de Saumeur, often called Chevalier Paul, served in several Mediterranean campaigns.
Notable people who served in the French Navy[edit]
Marcel Cerdan, world boxing champion during the 1940s
Jean Cocteau, poet, novelist, dramatist, designer, playwright, artist and filmmaker
Jean Cras, composer
Jacques-Yves Cousteau
Philippe de Gaulle, the son of the general Charles de Gaulle
Alain Delon, actor, served as a fusilier marin in the First Indochina War
Bob Denard, a mercenary notorious for coup attempts and wars in Africa
Jean Gabin, another major French actor, he joined the free French naval force during the Second World War
Paul Gauguin, painter, sculptor, print-maker, ceramist, and writer
Bernard Giraudeau, actor, film director, scriptwriter, producer and writer
André Marty, a leading figure in the French Communist Party from 1923 to 1955
Albert II, Prince of Monaco, reserve Lieutenant Commander
Pierre Loti, mostly known for his literary works
Albert Roussel, composer
Michel Serres, philosopher and author
Eric Tabarly, yachtsman
Victor Segalen, ethnographer, archaeologist, writer, poet, explorer, art-theorist, linguist and literary critic
Eugène Sue, a famous 19th-century novelist
Paul Emile Victor, an ethnologist and polar explorer
See also[edit]
France portal
Future of the French Navy
List of active French Navy ships
List of French Navy ship names
History of the French Navy from 1715 to 1789
Marine nationale[edit]
Chief of Staff of the French Navy
Airborne Units of the French Navy
Escorteur
Far East Squadron
French 100 mm naval gun
List of aircraft carriers of France
List of escorteurs of France
List of French naval battles
List of Naval Ministers of France
Standing French Navy Deployments
Category:French Navy admirals
Category:French Navy officers
Category:Naval ships of France
Notes[edit]
^ Along with the U.S., U.K., China, Russia, Italy, India, and Spain
References[edit]
^ "Defence Key Figures: 2016 Edition". Ministère des Armėes. (download PDF file or see HTML version Archived 6 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine)
^ "Forces de surface". Ministère des Armėes. Retrieved 29 August 2021.
^ "World Air Forces 2019". Flightglobal: 16. Retrieved 7 August 2019.
^ Bratton, Patrick C; Till, Geoffrey (2012). Sea Power and the Asia-Pacific. London, United Kingdom: Routledge. ISBN 978-1136627248.
^ "The Royal Navy: Britain's Trident for a Global Agenda". henryjacksonsociety.org. Henry Jackson Society. Archived from the original on 11 September 2016. Retrieved 4 November 2006.
^ Bennett, James C (1 January 2007). The Anglosphere Challenge: Why the English-speaking Nations Will Lead the Way in the Twenty-first Century. United States: Rowman & Littlefield. p. 286. ISBN 978-0742533332. ...the United States and the United Kingdom have the world's two best world-spanning blue-water navies... with the French being the only other candidate... and China being the most likely competitor in the long term
^ Suciu, Peter (2021-04-07). "France's Brand New Aircraft Carrier is On Its Way". The National Interest. Retrieved 2021-06-04.
^ Yeo, Mike (2022-06-17). "China Launches Third Carrier". DefenseNews. Retrieved 2022-08-22.
^ "Forces". Ministère des Armėes. Retrieved 2021-06-05.
^ "Key defence figures 2014" (PDF) (in French). Ministère des Armėes. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-12-13.
^ L'Ordonnance royale de 1772 prévoit le port de l'ancre d'or sur les tenues des régiments des ports constituant le corps royal de la Marine, implantés à Toulon, Brest, Rochefort, Saint-Malo, Bordeaux, Le Havre, Bayonne et Cherbourg.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Auphan, Gabriel Paul; Mordai, Jacques (2016) [1959]. "Chapter 1: The Naval Tradition of France". The French Navy in World War II. Translated by Sabalot, A.C.J. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 978-1-68247-060-2.
^ Wawro, Geoffrey: The Franco-Prussian War: The German conquest of France in 1870–1871
^ Wilhelm Rustow and John Layland Needham: The Way for the Rhine Frontier, 1870: Its Political and Military History
^ Description and photograph of Foudre
^ "French Navy, World War 1". Naval-history.net. Retrieved 2011-12-28.
^ "État-major" (in French). Defense.gouv.fr. 2011-09-15. Retrieved 2011-12-28.
^ "Forces (Navy)". Ministry of Defence (France). 18 July 2011. Retrieved 14 November 2011.
^ T.D. Young, Command in NATO after the Cold War, Carlisle Barracks, 1997
^ Chiffres clés de la Défense – 2016 Retrieved 2017-03-06.
^ a b "Instruction n°1 DEF/EMM/RH/CPM relative aux uniformes et tenues dans la Marine du 15 juin 2004" (in French). 15 June 2004. pp. 3793–3867. Retrieved 4 June 2021.
^ Rapport sur la féminisation des noms de métier, fonction, grade ou titre – La diversité des usages
^ "Musique des Équipages de la Flotte" (in French). Ministère des Armées. Retrieved 29 August 2021.
^ Chartrand, René (1989). "Tambour battant: la tradition millitaire" (PDF). Cap-aux-Diamants (in Canadian French). 5 (2): 17–19. ISSN 0829-7983. Archived from the original on 31 July 2020.
^ "French White Paper: Defence and National Security" (PDF). Government of France. 2013. Retrieved 29 August 2021.
^ "Projet De Loi De programmation Militarie 2014/2019" (PDF) (in French). August 2013. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-09-24.
^ "DCNS to unveil new FREMM Frigate variant, updated BRAVE supply ship design at Euronaval 2012". Navy Recognition. 4 October 2012.
^ "Update to French Military Planning Law Means New Capabilities for Lafayette Class Frigates". Navy Recognition. 21 May 2015.
^ Cabirol, Michel (15 June 2018). "Pétrolier ravitailleur : la France monte à bord du programme italien Vulcano". Le Tribune (in French).
^ Groizeleau, Vincent (13 April 2023). "Dernière navigation pour le BCR Marne, qui passe le flambeau au BRF Jacques Chevallier". Mer et Marine (in French). Retrieved 13 April 2023.
^ Mackenzie, Christina (8 December 2020). "Macron kicks off French race to build a new nuclear-powered aircraft carrier". DefenseNews. Retrieved 29 August 2021.
^ "France starts study phase for new aircraft carrier". Naval Today. 24 October 2018. Archived from the original on 24 October 2018. Retrieved 30 October 2018.
^ Briganti, de, Giovanni (24 October 2018). "France Launches Studies for New Aircraft Carrier". Defense Aerospace. Paris. Archived from the original on 30 October 2018. Retrieved 30 October 2018.
Further reading[edit]
Main article: History of the French Navy § Further reading
Auphan, Paul, & Jacques Mordal. The French Navy in World War II (Naval Institute Press, 2016).
Dull, Jonathan R. The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton University Press, 2015).
Jenkins, E H (1973). A History of the French Navy from its Beginnings to the Present Day. London: Macdonald and Jane's. ISBN 0356-04196-4.
Randier, Jean (2006). La Royale: L'histoire illustrée de la Marine nationale française. Babouji-MDV Maîtres du Vent. ISBN 978-2-35261-022-9.
Winfield, Rif and Roberts, Stephen S., French Warships in the Age of Sail, 1626–1786: Design, Constructions, Careers and Fates (Seaforth Publishing, 2017) ISBN 978-1-4738-9351-1; French Warships in the Age of Sail, 1786–1861: Design, Constructions, Careers and Fates (Seaforth Publishing, 2015) ISBN 978-1-84832-204-2.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to French Navy.
(in French) Marine nationale—Official website
(in English) French Navy 2011—Guide book
(in English) French Navy 2011—Information file
(in English) Net-Marine—A well-documented database on the French Navy
(in French) Mer & Marine—Main website on French maritime affairs
(in English) French Fleet Air Arm (about French naval aviation)
(in English) French Navy in World War I (including warship losses)
vteFrench Armed ForcesArmée de terre (Army) Marine nationale (Navy) Armée de l'air et de l'espace (Air and Space Force) National Gendarmerie (Gendarmerie)Leadership
Minister of the Armed Forces
Chief of the Defence Staff
Chief of Army Staff
Chief of Navy Staff
Chief of Air Force Staff
Ranks
Army ranks
Navy ranks
Air Force ranks
Formations & Commands
Foreign Legion
Space Command
Paratroopers
Marines
Joint forces
Franco-German Brigade
Combined Joint Expeditionary Force
Nuclear forces
Force de Dissuasion
Strategic Air Forces Command
Strategic Oceanic Force
Equipment
Army
Navy
Air and Space Force
Military bases
Overseas
France and weapons of mass destruction
vteMarine nationaleHonneur, Patrie, Valeur, Discipline (“Honour, Homeland, Valour, Discipline”)Command
Naval Ministers
Chief of Staff
Maritime Prefect
Ranks in the French Navy
Components
Force d'action navale
Forces sous-marines (FOST, ESNA)
Aviation navale
FORFUSCO (Commandos de Marine, Fusiliers Marins)
Gendarmerie maritime
Equipment
Current Fleet
Current deployments
Ensigns and pennants
History
History of the French Navy
Future of the French Navy
Historic ships
battleships
cruisers
ships of the line
Sail frigates
vteEquipment of the French NavyNaval Action ForceAircraft carriers
Charles de Gaulle
Frigates (1st class)
Horizon-class frigate
Aquitaine-class frigate
La Fayette-class frigate
Frigates (2nd class)
Floréal-class frigate
Patrol vessels
D'Estienne d'Orves-class aviso
Confiance-class patrol vessel
Patrouilleur Outre-mer
Flamant-class patrol vessel
Patrouilleurs Hauturiers
Amphibious assault vessels
Mistral-class amphibious assault ship
Landing craft
EDAR
EDIC
CTM
Minehunter vessels
Tripartite-class minehunter
Tankers
Durance-class tanker
Bâtiment ravitailleur de forces
Submarine Forces(Strategic Oceanic Force)SSN
Rubis class
Suffren class
SSBN
Triomphant class
Naval aviationFighter & attack
Rafale
Patrol
Bréguet Atlantic
Airborne early warning
Hawkeye
Transport & communications
Falcon 10
Helicopters
Dauphin
Panther
Lynx
NH90
vteNATO Allied Maritime CommandStructure
Standing NATO Maritime Group 1
Standing NATO Maritime Group 2
Standing NATO Mine Countermeasures Group 1
Standing NATO Mine Countermeasures Group 2
NATOmaritimeforces
Albanian Naval Force
Belgian Maritime Component
Bulgarian Navy
Royal Canadian Navy
Croatian Navy
Royal Danish Navy
Estonian Navy
Finnish Navy
French Navy
German Navy
Hellenic Navy
Icelandic Coast Guard
Italian Navy
Latvian Naval Forces
Lithuanian Naval Force
Montenegrin Navy
Royal Netherlands Navy
Royal Norwegian Navy
Polish Navy
Portuguese Navy
Romanian Naval Forces
Slovenian Navy
Spanish Navy
Swedish Navy
Turkish Naval Forces
Royal Navy
Royal Marines
United States Navy
United States Marine Corps
United States Coast Guard
vteNavies in EuropeSovereign states
Albania
Azerbaijan
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Greece
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Latvia
Lithuania
Malta
Montenegro
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Serbia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
States with limitedrecognition
Abkhazia
Northern Cyprus
Historical states
Austria-Hungary
Brandenburg
Byzantine Empire
Catalonia
Czechoslovakia
East Germany
Genoa
German Confederation
German Empire
Kingdom of Italy
Kingdom of Yugoslavia
Nazi Germany
North German Confederation
Ottoman Empire
Papal States
Prussia
Roman Empire
Sardinia
Scotland
Soviet Union
Two Sicilies
Venice
Weimar Germany
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelOtherIdRefYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=French_Navy&oldid=1307984172"
Categories: French NavyMilitary of FranceHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 French-language sources (fr)Articles containing French-language textCS1 Canadian French-language sources (fr-ca)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataShort description is different from WikidataPages with French IPACommons category link is on WikidataArticles with French-language sources (fr)
This page was last edited on 26 August 2025, at 20:47 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
French Navy
43 languages
Add topic