Best Things to Do in Florida in the Fall, From Local of 25 Years - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I've lived in Florida for 25 years. There's so much to do here in the fall, which is also the best time to visit.
By
Veronica Croes
There are plenty of reasons to visit Florida in the fall.
Steve Bower/Shutterstock
2025-09-16T21:55:26Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I've lived in Florida for 25 years and believe fall is the best time of year to visit.
The temperatures and humidity drop in the fall, making outdoor activities feel more enjoyable.
With the peak summer rush over, many hotels or theme parks offer seasonal discounts.
Summer in Florida can often bring intense heat, humidity, and crowded attractions. However, the fall season tells a completely different story.The change of season often brings cooler weather, fewer tourists, and many fun activities and festivals.
After living here for over 25 years, it's my favorite time of year to explore the Sunshine State. Here's why I always tell tourists to visit in the cooler months.
The temperatures start to feel more enjoyable.
The Florida sun is still strong in the fall, but temperatures are cooler.
Veronica Croes
By fall, temperatures start to cool down, and the humidity drops just enough to make the outdoors enjoyable again.Taking a stroll on the beach, exploring a national park, or sipping a coffee at a sidewalk café are much more enjoyable when you don't feel like you're melting.However, the Florida sun is still intense, so I recommend packing shorts, sunscreen, and a hat to stay protected during outdoor fun.
Many major attractions feel less crowded this time of year.
In my opinion, Florida's major attractions feel calmer in the fall.
Veronica Croes
One of my favorite things about Florida in the fall is how much calmer everything feels. Schools are back in session, so the huge summer crowds at theme parks, beaches, cities, and small towns have typically thinned out.This means visitors can take their time exploring attractions, it's easier to snag a prime spot on the sand, and reservations at popular restaurants feel more attainable without the stress of peak-season tourism.
Florida is home to a great variety of fall festivals.
I love sampling food at Epcot's International Food & Wine Festival.
Veronica Croes
Florida's fall calendar is filled with lots of festivals, and there's typically something for everyone.For example, I love indulging my inner foodie at Epcot's International Food & Wine Festival, which runs through November 22. Here, I can try food and drinks from around the world without ever leaving Orlando.Also, if you're a seafood lover, I think visiting the Pensacola Seafood Festival is a must. From September 26 through 28, local restaurants serve fresh seafood tapas-style, with live music and small-town charm.Music lovers have options too, from jazz and blues events to concerts scattered across the state. Cultural and arts festivals also pop up throughout the season in cities like Sarasota and St. Augustine.
I think fall is the perfect time to get out and experience nature.
Some parts of Florida have beautiful fall foliage.
Steve Bower/Shutterstock
If you love spending time outdoors like I do, the fall is the perfect time to experience the state's natural wonders.In addition to the cooler weather that makes spending time outside more enjoyable, Florida is full of fun activities that are best enjoyed in the fall months.For example, bioluminescent waters are still visible in places like Merritt Island, and many companies offer a glow-in-the-dark kayaking experience without the intense summer heat.Fall foliage even appears later in the season in the North and Central regions, where bald cypress trees along the rivers transform into shades of gold and red.
Halloween is a major event.
Universal Orlando's Halloween Horror Nights is a popular event.
Dewayne Bevil/Orlando Sentinel
If you visit in late September or October, you'll quickly realize Florida goes all-in on Halloween.There's something for everyone, from Universal's Halloween Horror Nights in Orlando to pumpkin patches, haunted houses, and ghost tours in historic towns like St. Augustine.Many smaller local farms also offer daytime events for a more family-friendly experience.
Recommended video
Florida
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account