The Best Nintendo Switch Games In 2025 - GameSpot
PlayStation State Of Play Announcements
2025 Upcoming Game Release Dates
Dress To Impress Codes
All Switch 2 Games
Silksong Mask Shard Locations
Borderlands 4 Shift Codes
AllGamesVideosArticlesReviewsFeaturesGalleriesUsersNewsVideosReviewsGamesEntertainmentStaff PicksBest Nintendo Switch 2 GamesBest Nintendo Switch GamesBest PS5 GamesBest Xbox Series X|S GamesBest PC GamesBest Xbox Game Pass GamesDealsGame DealsTech DealsGift IdeasGamesPC GamingPS5PS4Xbox Series XXbox OneSwitch 2SwitchAll Gaming NewsGuidesGaming TechMobile GamingCloud GamingEntertainmentMoviesTVWrestlingStar WarsMarvelDCGame of ThronesAll Entertainment NewsForumsMore
Games
PC GamingPS5PS4Xbox Series XXbox OneSwitch 2SwitchAll Gaming NewsGuidesGaming TechMobile GamingCloud Gaming
Entertainment
MoviesTVWrestlingStar WarsMarvelDCGame of ThronesAll Entertainment News
Forums
AllGamesVideosArticlesReviewsFeaturesGalleriesUsers
The Best Nintendo Switch Games In 2025By
Steve Watts
,
Steven Petite
, and
Darryn Bonthuys
on August 8, 2025 at 7:48AM PDT
GameSpot may receive revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and from purchases through links.
Choosing the best Nintendo Switch games is no easy task. The hybrid handheld-console has been home to some of the best games in Nintendo's own venerated franchises like Mario and The Legend of Zelda, alongside a massive array of third-party hits. With such a strong catalog of games, narrowing down the standouts to the very best isn't super easy, but that's what we've attempted with our list of the best Nintendo Switch games. We aimed to include a mix of genres, franchises, and both AAA and indie games.The Switch era of gaming might be winding down now that its successor, the Switch 2, has arrived, but it looks like this groundbreaking hybrid handheld-console from Nintendo is going to have a lengthy retirement tour. Over the years we've seen Nintendo's biggest franchises reach new heights on the Switch, and the console has also established itself as a powerful platform for third-party releases.While some franchises nabbed multiple spots on this list--Zelda, Metroid, Pokemon--we tried to limit repetition where possible. The picks below aren't in any particular order, and to make things easier, we've listed them all in alphabetical order.If you're planning to--or already have--grab a Switch 2, you can check out a separate list of thebest Switch 2 games and seewhich of the games below will work just fine on Switch 2. Many of them have also gottenSwitch 2 upgrades, improving their performance on that console.Share this GalleryLatest Image GalleriesPlayStation State Of Play September 2025: All The Biggest Announcements And GamesCoD: Black Ops 7 Zombies Adds Zombie Bears, Bees, And A Pack-a-Punched VehicleThe Best Games Of 2025 (So Far)Animal Crossing: New HorizonsAnimal Crossing: New Horizons remains one of the most popular and wholesome games on Nintendo Switch. Just as lockdowns began happening across the world, Animal Crossing: New Horizons invited players to a tranquil island for a relaxing loop of activities like fishing, bug-catching, and perfecting the layout of their virtual homes. Nintendo has steadily introduced new features to New Horizons, including plenty of free content as well as the massive Happy Home Paradise DLC.New Horizons also has robust customization features, including a new terraforming feature that gives you complete control over the terrain of your island. Whether you're conversing with your fellow residents, trying to finish your museum catalog, or visiting your friends' islands, Animal Crossing: New Horizons is a constant charmer.Read our Animal Crossing: New Horizons review.See at AmazonAnimal WellThe metroidvania genre has become so common that even some great ones can at times feel predictable or even formulaic. Animal Well sets itself apart by deemphasizing combat in favor of clever puzzle-solving and a tightly crafted, intricate world. The dark world has a low-fi aesthetic that doesn't look quite like anything else, and as you progress through it you'll find all sorts of strange household objects and toys that open up the world in surprising ways. The map is small but densely packed with secrets to uncover and small interactions to discover, making for a surprisingly refreshing take on the genre. And it's a perfect fit for the Switch's portability, letting you hold the inviting world of Animal Well in your hands.Read our Animal Well review.Bayonetta 3A showstopper of confident combat and demonic dance-moves, Bayonetta 3 gets action in a way that few other games do. A cocky blast of fun that caps the Bayonetta trilogy off on a high note, Bayonetta 3 isn't afraid to mix up its formula with the arrival of a new character who's a perfect contrast to the elegant anarchy of the titular witch. With a multi-dimensional storyline, full-scale kaiju battles, and even a Hollywood-level chase sequence, Bayonetta 3 doesn't forget why fans fell in love with the series in the first place.Read our Bayonetta 3 review.See at AmazonCelesteA wonderful platformer with an important message, Celeste feels right at home on Nintendo Switch. Madeline makes the trip to the treacherous Mount Celeste, a snow-covered mountain filled with perilous cliffs and interesting characters. Rendered in gorgeous pixelated graphics, Celeste plays like an old-school platformer and relies largely on well-timed jumps. It feels superb in motion, and the level design gradually grows more challenging as you acquire new abilities that cleverly expand the gameplay. It's a difficult game, but you can tweak the settings to fit your skill level to enjoy the story. Celeste tells a moving tale about finding yourself and overcoming self-doubt that creeps into your mind. It's one of the most poignant games in recent years as well as one of the best side-scrolling platformers on Switch.See our Celeste review.See at Best BuyCupheadStudio MDHR's Cuphead is a glorious ode to classic cartoons and a tremendous run-and-gun. Cuphead originally released for Xbox One and PC before being ported to Nintendo Switch. It made a smooth transition and runs flawlessly on the Switch hardware whether you're playing on your TV or in handheld mode. Cuphead's art style immediately stands out. The hand-drawn characters and animations look ripped out of a 1930s cartoon, giving Cuphead a visual style that will always look great. The jazzy audio design rounds out the presentation, transporting players to a different time. Essentially, it's a playable cartoon.Cuphead is far more than just a beautiful artistic triumph; it's also an aptly designed run-and-gun filled with exciting boss fights and cleverly made side-scrolling levels. If you're not afraid of a challenge, Cuphead is an absolute must-play game whether you play solo or cooperatively with a friend. The Delicious Last Course expansion only added to Cuphead's greatness by offering a brand-new playable character and some of the most impressive boss fights and animations across the whole package.See our Cuphead and Cuphead DLC reviews.See at AmazonDead CellsDead Cells is an amalgamation of rogue-likes and metroidvanias, and the result is an influential game that will likely be considered one of the best in both genres for years to come. Set in a procedurally generated castle, you play as a reanimated mass of cells taking hold of a prisoner's body. The labyrinthine castle is crawling with dangerous enemies and littered with secrets waiting to be uncovered. Each time you die--which tends to happen fairly regularly--you have to start over again. Critically, there are permanent upgrades, which allow you to make progress and see new areas with each subsequent run.With finely tuned and stylish action combat, an array of cool abilities and weapons, and an expertly designed map that changes each time you play, Dead Cells compels you to see it through to the end. And like all good roguelikes, Dead Cells makes you want to play through it again and again. Dead Cells has a bunch of great add-on content, including a great Castlevania-themed DLC, which really does feel like a perfect pairing.Read our Dead Cells review.See at AmazonDivinity: Original Sin 2 - Definitive EditionIt's something of a miracle that Divinity: Original Sin 2 plays so well on Nintendo Switch. While the resolution is worse than on other platforms, particularly in handheld mode, Original Sin 2 runs well. The massive turn-based CRPG from Larian Studios is a modern masterpiece in the genre, featuring a stunning fantasy world, rich writing, and a combat system with consummate depth. If you're looking for an old-school CRPG to play at home or on the go, Divinity: Original Sin 2 is one of your best bets. It's big and bold and manages to offer surprises and new layers even after dozens of hours of play.Read our Divinity: Original Sin 2 review.See at AmazonDonkey Kong Country Returns HDAs Nintendo prepares to launch the Switch 2, it's increasingly reaching into its back catalog for more games. Donkey Kong Country Returns HD goes back to the original Wii, reintroducing the first time Retro Studios brought back the beloved DKC side-scroller series. The game is still tough-as-nails, but it packages the quality-of-life features from the 3DS port that allow you a little more flexibility. With impeccable stage design that pays homage to the classic Super NES DKC games, this is a solid platformer that deserves its flowers.Read our Donkey Kong Country Returns HD review. See at AmazonDragon Quest III HD-2D RemakeOne of the most influential RPGs of all time has finally gotten the glow-up it deserves. Dragon Quest III was an incredible, genre-defining classic in its day, helping to break new ground with innovations like a robust job system and party recruiting. The HD-2D Remake recontextualizes this in the retro-modern aesthetic of games like Octopath Traveler or Triangle Strategy. The gameplay is faithful to the original, while packing just enough quality-of-life enhancements to make it smoother for current day play. It's the best way to enjoy a true classic.Read our Dragon Quest III HD-2D Remake.See at AmazonFantasy Life i: The GIrl Who Steals TimeAfter a long dormant period since the 3DS release of Fantasy Life, Level-5 has finally produced a new entry in the expansive sim-RPG mash-up. The central hook of Fantasy Life games is the wide variety of job classes (aka Lives) you can inhabit, to learn everything from combat to mining to cooking, fishing, and more. In The Girl Who Steals Time, you pick one Life to start, but you quickly gain the ability to start learning other vocations and from then on you can swap them on the fly.As you explore all the various jobs, you level up, gain new abilities, build a house, and investigate a mysterious time-shifting story. This is an action-RPG that's as massive as you make it, while still looking and feeling cute and accessible for less experienced fans.See on the Nintendo eShopDragon Quest 11 S: Echoes of an Elusive Age - Definitive EditionSquare Enix's long-running Dragon Quest franchise has consistently stuck to its roots, and Dragon Quest 11 embraces its traditional JRPG identity. In an age where more and more JRPGs are injecting traditionally Western gameplay features into their systems, Dragon Quest 11 embraces what it has always done so well. It's simply a fantastic turn-based role-playing game filled with charming characters, a beautiful world, and a deeply satisfying combat system. On Switch, you can switch between two distinct styles: modern 3D visuals and a classic 8-bit top-down presentation. The latter is especially intriguing for handheld mode.Read our Dragon Quest 11 review.See at WalmartFire Emblem: Three HousesRelentlessly engaging and rife with variety, Fire Emblem: Three Houses is the most impressive entry in the beloved strategy series. You play as a professor who oversees one of three houses at a mysterious monastery. There, you cultivate relationships and train your students to be prepared for the battles ahead. While recent Fire Emblem games have leaned more into social simulation, Three Houses takes this concept to the next level and includes some well-implemented management sim features. It strikes a wonderful balance between storytelling, preparation for the next battle, and the always-wonderful tactical combat scenarios the series is known for. With deftly written characters, an exceedingly good tale, and smart tweaks to the layered combat system, Fire Emblem: Three Houses is an astonishing experience from start to finish. And more than any other Fire Emblem game before it, Three Houses encourages multiple playthroughs to see the whole story, and each playthrough is different.Read our Fire Emblem: Three Houses review.See at AmazonHadesThough escaping the Underworld is the goal in Hades, being sent back to it after each failed run isn't a bad consolation prize. Hades, more than any other roguelike before it, intertwines its fast-paced action gameplay with its exquisite story in such a way that failure can be a good thing. You play as Hades' son Zagreus, a charismatic hero in his own right, but it's the supporting cast and all of their own interpersonal tales that make Hades such an enriching experience. Each attempt to escape the Underworld is a thrilling pursuit, one that relies on experimentation with your build to find the right balance for you. The combat has more depth than you'd initially expect, and after a few hours of futile escape attempts, Hades really starts to click. Even after you finally escape, Hades has a wonderful endgame that includes new storylines and challenging combat scenarios.Read our Hades review.See at Best BuyHollow KnightIt's a good thing that Hollow Knight is such a good metroidvania that you can comfortably hop into whenever the fancy strikes you, because it makes the wait for its sequel Silksong that much more bearable. The original game had some rough edges, but these were smoothed over in time and the bug's life adventure that came out of this was nothing short of exceptional. Hollow Knight is haunting and elegant: an aggressive collection of combat and exploration that feels right at home on the Switch. This version also contains all of its DLC, a sizable chunk of content that expands on the game massively and is enhanced by its gorgeous visual design.Read our Hollow Knight review.See at Best BuyThe Hundred Line: Last Defense AcademyThere's no shortage of great tactical-RPGs on the Switch, and you can add The Hundred Line: Last Defense Academy to that list. The fourth game from developer Too Kyo Games, The Hundred Line offers a rich narrative full of mystery and intriguing characters, relationship-building diversions, and strategic action that carries a high sense of risk and reward. If it sinks its hooks into you, expect to spend a lot of time playing The Hundred Line, as it features strong performances and dozens of potential endings to unlock.Into The BreachSubset Games' Into the Breach is a rare type of game that feels and plays like nothing before it. Developed by FTL studio Subset Games, Into the Breach is a roguelike tactics game that takes place on tiny grids. In the distant future, the monstrous Vek are threatening humanity. To save the world from monsters, you assemble a team of three mechs who take on the Vek in small-scale battles on eight-by-eight grids. Each battle only lasts several turns, and the goal isn't to overpower the Vek; instead, you're trying to deter their attacks and limit damage on critical infrastructure. You can also see a preview of each Vek's next move at the start of every turn, allowing you to strategize for the best possible outcome. Into the Breach is more like chess than a traditional tactics game, and you'd be surprised at how involved the matches can get. Into the Breach innovates on the form more than any other game in recent memory.See our Into the Breach review.See at WalmartKirby and the Forgotten LandSimply put, Kirby and the Forgotten Land is the best game in series history. As Kirby's first 3D platforming adventure, Forgotten Land offers remarkable variety and depth compared to earlier entries in the series. Kirby's iconic Copy ability works incredibly well in 3D, adding depth to both puzzles and combat. With six unique worlds that each contain levels that are littered with secrets and novel design quirks, Kirby and the Forgotten is one of those platformers that constantly surprises. Kirby's new Mouthful Mode ability is a charmer and spices up gameplay even more. The lengthy mainline stages are complemented by short and sweet time trials dubbed Treasure Road. These optional levels utilize Kirby's Copy and Mouthful abilities in fun and interesting ways, and completing them feeds into the overall loop that compels you to upgrade Copy abilities to make them even cooler. Kirby and the Forgotten Land is an absolute delight from start to finish whether you're playing solo or alongside a friend or loved one in local co-op.Read our Kirby and the Forgotten Land review.See at AmazonThe Legend of Zelda: Breath of the WildThe Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild was a Switch launch title, but it remains one of the best games on the platform all these years later. Many fans have called it the best game in the entire franchise--though the next game on this list has a strong argument, too. Breath of the Wild was Nintendo's first real foray into open-world games, and it's easily one of the best in class. Breath of the Wild provides a sense of exploration never before seen in the series. The sprawling open world of Hyrule is gorgeous and serves as Link’s personal playground. He can climb virtually anything, which creates an incredible sense of scale and freedom. This overarching change extends to the central progression as well. Replacing elaborate dungeons with tons of small-scale Shrines allows you to approach the adventure in your own way. Breath of the Wild is one of the few open-world games that isn't littered with extraneous systems and objectives. It prides itself on offering a slower pace and a more scenic, desolate world that's ripe for exploring, whether you're on foot, horseback, or scaling a cliff searching for a new discovery. Breath of the Wild is a stunning, brilliant adventure.Read our The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild review.See at WalmartThe Legend of Zelda: Echoes of WisdomAfter decades of playing the damsel in distress or a sidekick to Link's heroism, Zelda is now finally taking center stage in her own adventure. Echoes of Wisdom looks remarkably similar to the Link's Awakening remake for Switch, with the same playfully animated aesthetic. But Zelda takes the lead this time with her own distinct mechanics. Using a special wand, she can summon "Echoes" of the objects and enemies she encounters, using them to cleverly solve puzzles and fight in combat encounters. While Zelda can take the form of a swordfighter like Link, her combat hooks are different enough to set this game apart and let Zelda forge her own path at last.Read our The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom review.See at WalmartThe Legend of Zelda: Tears of the KingdomSix years after the release of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Nintendo captured lightning in a bottle again with its sequel, Tears of the Kingdom. Building on the foundation of the groundbreaking Switch launch game, Tears of the Kingdom hits all the right notes for a sequel. It's bigger, bolder, and even more ambitious than the first game, and at the same time, it makes great strides towards addressing some of the more lingering issues from Breath of the Wild.The Legend of Zelda at its very best, Tears of the Kingdom links to the past by borrowing the best elements from older games in the franchise, and delivers a rewarding experience that's endlessly captivating. The end result is a masterpiece of intelligent engineering and fun gameplay that will become a new gold standard for future Zelda games.Read our The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom review.See at WalmartMario + Rabbids Sparks of HopeWho would have thought that a tag team of Mushroom Kingdom superstars and Ubisoft's Rabbids could produce such a gem? Following up on the absurd strategy of 2017's Kingdom Battle, Sparks of Hope refines the turn-based strategy formula with genuinely clever improvements. It's a game that the rest of the genre should pay attention to, as Ubisoft Milan and Paris make big changes that help create a better game with an even better sense of pacing.It's also just a hoot to play, with the sheer joy woven into every pixel shining in this sequel. From Luigi's barely contained cowardice to the hilarious silliness of the Rabbids, Sparks of Hope is a chaotic but clever little masterpiece on the Switch.Read our Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope review.See at WalmartMario Kart 8 DeluxeAn expanded port of the excellent Wii U game, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is the best racing game on Nintendo Switch. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe currently contains more than 40 racers and 48 tracks, including many of the best courses from Mario Kart history. Deluxe adds several notable features, including driving assistance settings for new players and two item slots. It also has an extended Battle mode, which winds up making Mario Kart 8 Deluxe the most content-rich and well-rounded entry in series history. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe released during the Switch's launch window, but it remains one of the most popular multiplayer games on the console for good reason. It should be in every Nintendo Switch owner's library.See our Mario Kart 8 Deluxe review.See at WalmartMetroid DreadAfter a nearly two-decade wait, Metroid returned to its side-scrolling roots for an adventure that closed out the current Metroid saga. Remarkably, Metroid Dread lives up to the high expectations set by longtime fans. Developed by Mercury Steam (Metroid: Samus Returns), Metroid Dread is a wonderful adventure that sticks to its roots. Dread shines mechanically, with fast-paced combat, a wide range of upgrades to acquire, and a stable of bosses that test your fortitude and counterattack skills. Dread also introduces the EMMI, creepy robots who patrol designated zones and cause instant game overs if you're caught. It's an absolute joy to explore the maze-like locales, and Dread's huge swath of secrets to uncover encourages multiple playthroughs. Metroid Dread is easily one of the best side-scrollers on Switch, and it's a reminder that going back to your roots can be a truly excellent idea.Read our Metroid Dread review.See on AmazonMetroid Prime RemasteredFew games stand the test of time, but Metroid Prime is one of the select few titles from a bygone era that still feels as good to play today as it did on the GameCube back in 2002. More than two decades later, it's even better as this first-person shooter got a massive facelift for Nintendo's hybrid console. Looking better than ever, Samus Aran's shift to the third dimension is a great example of evergreen gameplay design that influenced an entire generation of action games in its wake. It's still Metroid right down to its first-person bones, but the slick action and well-paced exploration can be enjoyed without needing to don some nostalgia-goggles.Read our Metroid Prime Remastered review.See at WalmartMonster Hunter RiseThe Monster Hunter series has a long history on Nintendo platforms dating back nearly a decade, and though Monster Hunter World didn't release for the Switch, Capcom rectified that with the excellent Monster Hunter Rise. Though it started as a Switch exclusive, Rise has since been ported to other platforms and received a massive DLC, Sunbreak, that makes it all the more enjoyable. Rise adds a level of verticality through the Wirebug tool. Though perfect for shorter gameplay sessions, it also fits comfortably as a mainline entry with a big map, online multiplayer action, and a ton of depth in the various weapon types for players looking to experiment. With a mix of classic monsters and newcomers, it's a great entry point and perfect for the series' veterans.Read our Monster Hunter Rise review.See at AmazonOctopath Traveler 2The Switch has become a hub for classic JRPG goodness, and Octopath Traveler II is a prime example of this. Square Enix's follow-up to the original game retains all the classic charm of the SNES era, mixed with graphics that blur the line between modern and retro gaming. Not just a good-looking game, Octopath Traveler II is satisfying to play thanks to its combo of non-linear storytelling, freeform exploration, and strategic combat, all of which serve to deliver a challenging adventure told across multiple viewpoints.Like the best sequels, it builds on the ideas that the original game pioneered, improving and iterating on its unique elements. If you're looking for a cozy JRPG that'll easily consume dozens of your hours, Octopath Traveler II is worth picking up.Read our Octopath Traveler 2 review.See at AmazonPaper Mario: The Thousand-Year DoorPerhaps the most beloved of Mario's many RPG incarnations, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door received an excellent and loving remake on Nintendo Switch this year. The bright, colorful visuals look better than ever thanks to an HD remaster, the heartfelt and often funny dialogue still shines through years later, and the turn-based battle system still feels dynamic and incredibly balanced. In addition to remastering a beloved game, a new fast-travel, hint, and training options help streamline the experience and make it more approachable for newcomers. This is the definitive way to experience a classic all over again, or for the first time.Read our Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door review.See at AmazonPipistrello and the Cursed YoyoPipistrello and the Cursed Yoyo plays--and looks--like a love-letter to the Zelda-likes of the Game Boy Advance era, but with some neat twists on the formula. Like the best games in this genre, there's a satisfying sense of reward for exploration and experimentation, and when combined with a novel gameplay system that asks you to take on some "debt" and clear it, Pipistrello shines. It's a quirky tribute to a bygone era of gaming, all wrapped up in a package of energetic visuals and catchy music.The Plucky SquireAt first glance, The Plucky Squire appears to be another indie Zelda-like, albeit one with a particularly lovely storybook art style. But it takes a turn when the hero of the story is thrown out of his book, and into the real world of a fan's bedroom, by the villain. The adventure then has you jumping in and out of the book at will, manipulating the words on the page, and even opening and closing the book to slide objects around for puzzle-solving. It's an inventive hook with loads of cool applications, and on top of that, The Plucky Squire keeps you on your toes with an impressive level of variety.Read our The Plucky Squire review.See at WalmartPokemon Sword & ShieldPokemon Sword & Shield ushers in the Galar region, an expansive locale filled with new Pokemon and a familiar but refined loop. Once again, you're working to be the best that ever was, starting off with one Pokemon and no badges and slowly working your way to filling out your Pokedex and becoming the Pokemon League Champion. The Galar region has several Wild Areas (including DLC areas), new open sections filled with different species of Pokemon roaming in plain sight. These sections offer a nice change of pace to the streamlined journeys of previous games, and the new Dynamax mechanic and rotating raids add more continuous content to enjoy. With a great collection of new Pokemon, more customization options available at your fingertips, and a wealth of content that only gets more substantial when you factor in the pair of expansions, Pokemon Sword & Shield is a worthy addition to the beloved franchise.Read our Pokemon Sword and Shield review.See at WalmartPokemon Legends: ArceusPokemon Legends: Arceus sits somewhere between a mainline game and a spin-off. Taking place well before the events of any other RPG entry in the series, Arceus sends players to the Hisui region (Sinnoh) to complete the first Pokedex. Arceus' core gameplay revolves already scouring the land in search of Pokemon, which can be caught by simply lobbing Poke Balls. Arceus also has the familiar turn-based battle system, which makes it feel like a mainline game in many respects. Mainline story missions take place in sprawling areas, which gives Arceus an open-world feel, and with plenty of optional missions as well, Arceus boasts a surprising amount of compelling content. Crafting systems and resource management incentivize exploration, and it's pretty easy to lose hours simply exploring the locales in search of new Pokemon and resources. Pokemon Legends: Arceus is a must-play for Pokemon fans, and even lapsed fans might enjoy the refreshing loop.Read our Pokemon Legends: Arceus review.See at AmazonPrince of Persia: The Lost CrownThe classic platformer series made a return as a metroidvania, and the results are stellar. This new Prince of Persia revolves around Sargon, the youngest member of a specialized Persian royal guard called the Immortals, who gets caught up in a web of intrigue and betrayal when one of their own kidnaps the kingdom's prince. That leads his band to the mysterious and cursed Mount Qaf, where the adventure takes place.With fine-tuned combat, nail-biting platforming, and excellent new metroidvania quality-of-life features, Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown is both a leader in its genre and a triumphant return for the classic franchise. It's definitely worth checking out, and the handheld nature of the Switch makes it easy to explore while lounging with your favorite baking show.Read our Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown review.See at WalmartShin Megami Tensei VThe Shin Megami Tensei mainline series may not be as popular in North America as the Persona series, but JRPG fans shouldn't miss out on Shin Megami Tensei V. This Nintendo Switch exclusive captures the unique atmosphere that the series is known for and complements it with brilliant battles that require players to be strategic with their decisions. The story is a slow burn, but it's filled with interesting characters and choice-driven plot points that make it engaging throughout. If you're looking for a JRPG on Switch that you can sink dozens and dozens of hours into, Shin Megami Tensei V is a great choice--and you don't need to have played previous entries to enjoy it.Read our Shin Megami Tensei V review.See at AmazonShotgun Cop ManA platformer game without a dedicated jump button sounds like heresy, but Shotgun Cop Man runs wild with that idea thanks to its gung-ho energy, clever level design, and cartoonish action. It's a short-but-oh-so-sweet experience as well, as you chase after the devil and use the titular Shotgun Cop Man's trigger-happy set of skills to deliver a ballistic kiss of death to anything that gets in your way.Splatoon 3Splatoon 3 isn't as novel an experience the third time around, but this squidtastic game still knows how to make a splash. Family-friendly action in a colorful world, Splatoon 3 refines its formula and creates a highlight reel of fun zone mechanics in online competition, a single-player mode that is delightfully challenging, and clever multiplayer maps.With a massive amount of multiplayer modes and options on offer, Splatoon 3 is a buffet of content that you won't run out of anytime soon. Veterans to the series might need some more convincing before they hop back into familiar territory, but for anyone who has yet to play a Splatoon game, Splatoon 3 is the perfect entry point.Read our Splatoon 3 review.See at AmazonStardew ValleyTired of the hustle and bustle of city life, you move to your grandfather's farm in Stardew Valley, a picturesque rural community where life moves slower than you're used to. Stardew Valley is both a relaxing farming sim and a wonderful social sim filled with relatable characters. Though it lets you make your own fun, Stardew Valley does have a clever loop that slowly builds as you develop relationships, acquire new gear, and uncover the game's many secrets. It's easy to pour hundreds of hours into Stardew Valley. There's so much to see and do, and after a while, Stardew Valley has the familiarity of home, one that's always a pleasure to return to.Read our Stardew Valley review.See at AmazonSunderfolkWhen Sunderfolk was first revealed by Dreamhaven, the elevator pitch for it was to bring back game night for tabletop fans looking for a quick session of fantasy adventures with friends. An ambitious goal, but one that its developer has pulled off admirably with a rock-solid game and a dedicated smartphone app to help control the experience on your TV screen. Easy to pick up and full of fun quests to jump into, Sunderfolk brings the magic of tabletop gaming to a new audience in an enchanting package.Read our Sunderfolk review.Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's FurySuper Mario 3D World was one of the best Wii U games, and the recently released expanded port takes the platforming magic to new heights. Super Mario 3D World is a great blend of 3D Mario platforming and the classic Mario course structure. The sheer inventiveness on display across its 12 worlds (including four challenging bonus worlds) is enough to make this one of the better modern Mario games, and the fact you can play the entire campaign with up to four players makes it a great pick for families. Bowser's Fury brings something entirely different to the table with an open-world design with a series of mini levels that gradually unlock as you collect Cat Shines and square off against a very large and angry Bowser. Overall, the package includes a staggering amount of variety and demonstrates how Nintendo's trusty mascot still has tricks up his sleeve all these years later.Read our Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury review.See at AmazonSuper Mario Bros. WonderSuper Mario Bros. Wonder is the first new 2D Mario in years not under the "New Super Mario" brand, and the reason why couldn't be clearer. While the New SMB series was well-made as a retro throwback, Super Mario Wonder is a true evolution of Mario mechanics that pushes the series forward in ways that we haven't seen for years. The marquee Wonder effects imbue every stage with wild, unique mechanics, while a new Badge equipment system lets you experiment with different powers. New stage types and power-ups abound as well, making this an absolute delight.Read our Super Mario Bros. Wonder review.See at AmazonSuper Mario OdysseySuper Mario Odyssey is a relentlessly joyful 3D platformer that gives players far more freedom than they've had in previous 3D Mario games. Super Mario Odyssey has a series of large, open levels, each of which is chock-full of Power Moons to find by completing tricky platforming sequences, besting foes, and solving puzzles. It also introduces a new array of moves thanks to Mario's sentient hat Cappy. If you're playing Super Mario Odyssey with young children, the cooperative mode is excellent, as it allows one player to take control of Cappy, who can't take damage. Super Mario Odyssey is Mario's biggest adventure yet, with more to see and do than ever before in a 3D Mario game.Read our Super Mario Odyssey review.See at AmazonSuper Smash Bros. UltimateWith more than 80 fighters so far, more than 100 stages, and a wide variety of content whether you're playing multiplayer or refining your skills against the CPU, Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is the most comprehensive and plentiful brawler in franchise history. The expansive roster of characters with totally different playstyles is impressive enough to keep you playing for the long haul, but Smash Bros. Ultimate is far more than just a collection of Nintendo characters and anime characters with swords hitting each other repeatedly; it's a deeply satisfying brawler that refines the overall gameplay to make the most technically sound Smash Bros. to date. It's full of video game history, too, from unlockable trinkets to iconic music. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is the best fighting game on Nintendo Switch. We'd also recommend the Fighter Passes, which grant access to additional characters and stages.Read our Super Smash Bros. Ultimate review.See at WalmartTetris Effect: ConnectedTetris and the Nintendo Switch are a perfect match, so it's no surprise that the best iteration of the classic puzzle game has found its way on this list. Tetris Effect: Connected has been around for a few years, delighting fans with its jaw-dropping mix of special effects, catchy music, and block-stacking, but it only just arrived on Switch in 2021. This is pure Tetris, but it adds heaps of style that creates an entrancing experience that's easy to get captivated by. Tetris Effect has a great single-player campaign mode as well as a slew of game variants in its Effects mode. The "Connected" portion of the experience lets three players join up to fight increasingly challenging CPU-controlled bosses. Whether you're primarily playing solo or dropping garbage blocks with friends, Tetris Effect: Connected is the best way to play Tetris.Read our Tetris Effect: Connected review.See at AmazonUFO 50UFO 50 might just be the best deal in gaming right now. Not only are you getting 50 games rendered in a retro-flavored style from a group of all-star developers, but each one is a showcase of creativity and experimentation. Familiar genres get a fresh twist, there's an engaging narrative behind the development of these games that ties into a fictional studio, and the entire experience is a nostalgic treat.Xenoblade Chronicles trilogyBetween Mario and Zelda, it's a shame that Xenoblade Chronicles doesn't get more love on Nintendo platforms. But for anyone looking to see superstar developer Monolith Soft at its very best, the trilogy of Xenoblade Chronicles games available right now are masterpieces of JRPG design, worldbuilding, and incredible visuals. Make no mistake, these games are incredibly deep and have steep learning curves, but stick with them and you'll find a rewarding experience waiting for you at the end.Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is easily the best of the bunch, a lengthy and stunning adventure that can keep you occupied for the rest of 2023. A testament to just what the Switch is capable of when a developer is firing on all cylinders, each Xenoblade game is worth investing your precious time and delivers a unique magic that you'll only find on Nintendo hardware.Read our Xenoblade Chronicles 3 review.See at AmazonRemoved: Disco Elysium, Eastward, Golf Story, The House in Fata Morgana, New Pokemon Snap, Pepper Grinder, Ring Fit Adventure, Splatoon 2, Super Mario Maker 2, Unicorn Overlord
Upvote (14)Leave Blank
View Comments (46)
Load Comments (46)
© 2025 FANDOM, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Privacy PolicyCookie SettingsTerms of UseHelpPartnershipsCareersMore Sitesgamefaqs.commetacritic.comfandom.comfanatical.comReviewsLatest ReviewsPCPS4Xbox OneSwitchNewsLatest NewsPCPS5Xbox Series XPS4Xbox OneSwitchShowsExpert ReactsFirearms Expert ReactsNo HUDSpot OnThe Kurt LockerTalk to UsForumsGameSpotGameSpot Entertainment
Close