Is the Cotswolds Worth Visiting? a Brit Says Visit These Spots Instead - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I've been to the Cotswolds many times, but don't get the hype. As a Brit, I suggest visiting these 5 spots instead.
By
Rachel Hosie
The writer Rachel Hosie in a pub garden, and a vista in Scotland.
Rachel Hosie
2025-09-17T09:39:27Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Cotswolds in the UK is popular with America's rich and powerful, from Taylor Swift to JD Vance.
The picturesque rural area is dubbed "the Hamptons of the UK."
Rachel Hosie is British and has visited the Cotswolds — but thinks other spots like the New Forest are better.
When my husband and I were deciding where to go on our minimoon, we thought the Cotswolds would be perfect.The rural area to the west of England is known for its quintessential countryside charm: brown stone cottages, cosy pubs, and rolling hills. We'd both visited a few times and enjoyed it.
But when we found ourselves struggling to move for tourists with selfie sticks (apparently still a thing) and paying £16 ($22) for a coffee and a very disappointing grilled cheese, we realized the area might have become a victim of its own success.
The Cotswolds has long been considered a bougie destination by Brits.
The writer, Rachel Hosie, walking in the Cotswolds.
Rachel Hosie
When Soho Farmhouse opened there in 2015, it swiftly became a rural retreat for a new generation of trendy Londoners, allowing them to "do the countryside" without needing to go near any mud. The Beckhams bought a converted barn round the corner in 2016, which has been their family home since.
Recently, America's rich and famous have flocked to the Cotswolds.
The Pig, a much-loved boutique hotel with a location in the Cotswolds.
Rachel Hosie
Taylor Swift rented a house in the area for the UK portion of her Eras tour in 2024, Ellen deGeneres moved there in November 2024, it's where JD Vance vacationed this summer, and Beyoncé and Jay-Z are reportedly looking for a Cotswolds home of their own, too.
The Cotswolds is being dubbed "the Hamptons of the UK" — but I think it's overrated.
The village of Bibury, in the Cotswolds.
Rachel Hosie
We still had fun on our minimoon in the Cotswolds — walking through the quiet countryside was lovely, our hotel was fantastic, and we enjoyed the shops and cafes in Cirencester, one of the larger towns in the area.But the towns and villages that are now known as being chocolate-box-charming were far from it, in my opinion, because they were so busy.In my experience, there are plenty of other parts of the UK with equal appeal and without what felt to me like masses of tourists and inflated prices.Here are my favourite places to visit for rural British charm.
Growing up, my family would spend most summers on the Norfolk coast, to the east of England.
Homes and a waterway in Burnham Market, a village in Norfolk.
Rachel Hosie
I still love its English seaside vibe. One of my favourite spots is the village of Burnham Market.
Well-to-do locals and visitors have given Burnham Market the reputation of "Chelsea on sea," after the upmarket London borough.
The view from a cafe in Burnham Market.
Rachel Hosie
It's a delightful village set around a green, with lots of independent boutiques and cafes. Go for a walk at Burnham Overy Staithe, which means "homestead over the river," and pick up fish and chips from Eric's in Thornham.If a holiday cottage doesn't appeal to you, stay at the Hoste Arms, a luxury hotel and pub near the coast.
Rutland and south Leicestershire in the East Midlands is known as "the Notswolds" for its Cotswold-esque charm — without as many tourists and high prices.
Pimm's at The Bell, Leicestershire.
Rachel Hosie
Trust me, I grew up there.Less than an hour by train from London, Market Harborough in the region is a characterful town with lots of lovely shops and cafes (go to the Garage Bakehouse), and the countryside and villages around it are worth exploring too.Visit Great Bowden for brunch at Bowden Stores, sit in a pub garden surrounded by lavender at The Bell Inn in East Langton, or venture over to England's smallest county, Rutland, for top quality food at The Olive Branch in Clipsham.
The Scottish Highlands are undeniably one of the most striking parts of the UK.
A waterway near Ballater, Aberdeenshire.
Rachel Hosie
They are one of my favorite places for walking. Be sure to stroll along the River Dee and amble through the heather-clad valleys.
The small town of Ballater is a quaint place to stay.
The River Dee, Ballater.
Rachel Hosie
It's not far from Balmoral Castle, a residence of the British royal family in Scotland.Make sure you stop by the Highlanders' Bakehouse, just outside the town, for incredible sweet treats and baked goods.The local delicacy are "butteries," which I would describe as squashed, slightly salty croissants. Lightly toast them then add more butter (yes, really) and jam. Delicious.
The New Forest in Hampshire, southern England, is a beautiful national park full of woodlands and wild ponies.
A wild pony in the New Forest.
Rachel Hosie
It's a great area to explore on foot, and there are countless lovely villages to explore, such as Beaulieu and Bucklers Hard, both of which are found on the banks of the Beaulieu River.
There are lots of delightful places to stay and eat in the New Forest and its surrounds.
Bucklers Hard, New Forest.
Rachel Hosie
My favourite option for both of those things is The Pig Hotel in Brockenhurst, which uses ingredients from the local area in its restaurant. It's perfect for a special occasion or just getting cosy by the fire after a long muddy walk.
Dartmouth isn't particularly cheap or devoid of tourists (in the summer months, at least), but it's so special I had to include it.
A view of the coast near Dartmouth.
Rachel Hosie
Situated on the mouth of the River Dart (make sense) in the county of Devon, the town features colorful houses nestled into the hills overlooking the river, a beautiful castle, and coastal walks with breathtaking views.
There are plenty of places to try the best of British food in Dartmouth.
The coastline of Dartmouth, Devon.
Rachel Hosie
Get fish and chips from Rockfish (either from their eat-in restaurant or takeaway branch), a classic English fry-up breakfast at Cafe Alf Resco, and, for a special occasion dinner, head to The Seahorse seafood restaurant.
Recommended video
UK
Europe
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account