WHO Triple Billion progress data (contributions)
Skip to content
World Health OrganizationWHO
Data
More from WHO
WHO Global
Settings
Language
Language
English
Indicators
Countries
Dashboards
About
Close
Menu
WHO Global progress dashboard
Select region, country, territory or area:
World
World
Region
African Region
Eastern Mediterranean Region
European Region
Region of the Americas
South-East Asia Region
Western Pacific Region
Country, territory or area
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Andorra
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czechia
Democratic People's Republic of Korea
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Micronesia (Federated States Of)
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands (Kingdom of the)
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Macedonia
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Türkiye
Turkmenistan
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United Republic of Tanzania
United States of America
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
HALE
Triple Billion targets
More
WHO Triple Billion targets, %%COUNTRY%% data
Triple Billion progress, %%COUNTRY%%
Tracking the work of WHO, Member States and partners towards meeting the Triple Billion targets and health-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Triple Billion targets assess impact by considering how many more people are enjoying better health and wellbeing, are benefitting from Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and are better protected from health emergencies.
WHO Triple Billion target, %%COUNTRY%% data
Healthier Populations
Universal Health Coverage
Health Emergencies Protection
How are the WHO Triple Billion target projections calculated and actioned?
The Triple Billion target estimates are underpinned by 46 outcome indicators, used as tracers, and calculated with 90% uncertainty intervals (UI). They include 39 Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) indicators and seven indicators related to World Health Assembly (WHA) resolutions. These offer a flexible approach to each of the Triple Billion targets, allowing countries to prioritize certain indicators based on their national health strategy, ensuring relevance for all Member States and their unique health challenges.Currently, the world is far off track to reach the health-related SDGs by 2030.Accelerating progress and delivering results in countries involves implementing data-driven delivery approaches, promoting integrated platforms, applying digital health and ready-to-scale-up innovations, incentivizing partnerships and multisectoral collaboration, and obtaining innovative financing for public health.On a regular basis, newly collected and processed data from WHO technical programmes are added to the World Health Data Hub, where they can be used to calculate current progress towards the Triple Billion targets. For transparency and accountability, progress towards the Triple Billion targets is shared publicly through the World Health Data Hub dashboard and annual results reporting. The results are also critically reviewed and discussed with WHO senior leadership on a semi-annual basis through stocktakes, that aim to identify critical gaps or opportunities for acceleration that can be actioned.
Global Triple Billion target analysis
Healthier Populations
The current trajectory indicates that the target of one billion more people enjoying better health and well-being will likely be met by 2025.
At global level, this has been driven primarily by improvements in air quality and access to water, sanitation and hygiene measures at global level (e.g. with respect to the particulate matter 2.5 standard, clean household fuels, safely managed sanitation).However, projected current rate of progress will be insufficient to reach all the health-related targets of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 for most indicators.
Universal Health Coverage
The world is off track to meet the target of one billion more people benefiting from universal health coverage by 2025 and to meet the related Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
However, 30% of countries have bucked the global trend in order to make progress on both the coverage of essential health services and the provision of financial protection. The overall measures of progress are largely driven by increased HIV service coverage. The disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic to many indicators, such as those on routine childhood vaccination and tuberculosis, are recovering but still require concerted effort to close the gaps and accelerate action towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
Health Emergencies Protection
Global progress is not on track to reach the target of one billion more people better protected from health emergencies by 2025.
Improvements in emergency preparedness, as measured through core capacities related to the International Health Regulations (2005), made a positive contribution in 2022–2023. Although the coverage of vaccinations for high-priority pathogens shows improvement relative to the COVID-19 pandemic-related disruptions in 2020–2021, it has not yet returned to pre-pandemic levels.
Indicator contributions and trends, %%COUNTRY%%
Each of the Triple Billion tracer or subcomponent indicators is shown here as a circle. The position on the axis represents their relative positive or negative contribution, in number of lives, toward the targets based on country level progress for each indicator. The subsequent table outlines the 2019 to 2025 trend and percentage change per indicator.
2019
2023
2025
What is the significance of 2025 as the year represented in the Triple Billion data?
The GPW13 was defined for 2019-2023 with 2018 as the baseline year for comparing impact measures.
However, due to widespread disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, during the seventy-fifth World Health Assembly (2022) Member States agreed to extend the GPW13 period to 2025.
With 2030 as the target year for achieving the SDGs, 2025 is both an important milestone for assessing the attainment of the Triple Billion targets at the end of the GPW13, as well as an opportunity to renew focus on acceleration efforts needed in pursuit of the broader Sustainable Development Agenda.
Triple Billion resources
Downloadable data
Statistical release
22 May 2024
WHO Triple Billion progress data (contributions)
Triple Billion progress data from the World Health Organization. Global, regional and Member State data (2018 - 2030).
Download
Documentation
Methods report Published 19 May 2023
Triple Billion forecasting methods
View
Download236 kb
GPW14 Impact Measurement Metadata Published 22 May 2024
GPW14 Impact Measurement Metadata
View
Download236 kb
Further information
Anchored in the health-related SDGs, the GPW 13 provided a roadmap to increase healthy lives and well-being for all. The conceptual framework for this was to achieve the triple billion targets by 2025:1 billion more people living with better health and well-being1 billion more people benefiting from universal health coverage1 billion more people better protected from health emergencies The triple billion targets have been recalibrated to account for changes in the health context and improve impact measurement for 2025–2028. They now reflect absolute population coverages to be achieved by 2028. The recalibrated targets for GPW 14 are:6 billion people with better health and well-being5 billion people who benefit from universal health coverage without financial hardship7 billion people better protected from health emergencies.
Fourteenth General Programme of Work 2025-2028
Triple Billion tracking and results delivery
Health-related Sustainable Development Goals
Frequently asked questions
Metadata
Glossary and definitions
Triple Billion targetsA hallmark of WHO’s Thirteenth General Programme of Work (GPW13) and a central part of the overall impact measurement framework used to gauge progress towards ambitious global targets to ensure more people enjoy better health and wellbeing, are benefitting from Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and are better protected from health emergencies.Health-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)Indicators and data used to set ambition and monitor progress towards targets within the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development. SDG 3 seeks to ensure health and well-being for all, at every stage of life, and additionally many other SDG goals comprise important determinants of health.Outcome indicatorsQuantitative measures reflecting short-term and medium-term changes for a health outcome, used as a source of information to assess progress over time. In the GPW13 outcome indicators cover a range of health issues and contribute directly or indirectly to the Triple Billion targets.Tracer indicatorsHealth outcome measures that are subcomponents to a specific Billion target, when aggregated used to reflect change in the Billion as a whole (eg, there are 14 tracer indicators for UHC).ContributionsBased on the methodology used to calculate the Triple Billion targets as outlined in the GPW13 Methods for impact measurement, the number of lives improved or worsened according to change in specific indicators over the period of time.Country level progressExamining the trends across indicators for a particular country.
Data sources
Triple Billion dataTriple Billion Progress, WHO Global progress dashboard
Copyright and licensing
Copyright
Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)
License
The World Health Organization (“WHO”) encourages public access and use of the data that it collects and publishes on its web site data.who.int. The data are organized in datasets and made available in machine-readable format
(“Datasets”). The Datasets have been compiled from data provided by WHO’s Member States under the WHO policy on the use and sharing of data collected by WHO in Member States outside the context of public health emergencies.
Use of the data derived from the Datasets, which may appear in formats such as tables and charts, is also subject to these Terms and Conditions. Datasets may include data describing the Dataset called “Metadata”. If any datasets
are credited to a source other than WHO, then those materials are not covered by these Terms and Conditions, and permission should be sought from the source provided. You are responsible for determining if this is the case, and if
so, you are responsible for obtaining any necessary permission from the sources indicated. The risk of claims resulting from infringement of any third-party-owned component in the materials rests solely with you.
You may use our application programming interfaces (“APIs”) to facilitate access to the Datasets, whether through a separate web site or through another type of software application. By using the Datasets or any presentations
of data derived from them, or by using our APIs in connection with the Datasets, you agree to be bound by these Terms and Conditions, as may be amended from time to time by WHO at its sole discretion.
Unless specifically indicated otherwise, these Datasets are provided to you under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0), with the additional terms below. The basic terms applicable to the CC BY 4.0 license
may be accessed here. By downloading or using the Datasets, you agree to comply with the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license, as well as the following mandatory and binding addition:
Any dispute relating to the interpretation or application of this license shall, unless amicably settled, be subject to conciliation. In the event of failure of the latter, the dispute shall be settled by arbitration. The arbitration shall
be conducted in accordance with the modalities to be agreed upon by the parties or, in the absence of agreement, with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules. The parties shall accept the arbitral award as final.
Permission type
Publicly accessible
Prohibited uses
You shall not attempt to de-anonymise the Datasets or use the Datasets in a manner that falsifies or misrepresents their content.
You shall not, in connection with your use of the Datasets published on data.who.int, state or imply that WHO endorses, or is affiliated with, you, or that WHO endorses your use of data.who.int, or any content, output, or analysis resulting
from or related to the data.who.int, or any entity, organization, company, product or services.
Citation
World Health Organization 2024 data.who.int, WHO Global progress dashboard > Triple Billion [Dashboard]. https://data.who.int/dashboards/global-progress/triple-billion
Disclaimer
WHO reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, the Datasets, or any means of accessing or utilizing the Datasets with or without prior notice to you.
MapsThe designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of WHO concerning the legal status of any country, territory,
city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted and dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.
All references to Kosovo should be understood to be in the context of the United Nations Security Council resolution 1244 (1999).
A dispute exists between the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning sovereignty over the Falkland Islands (Malvinas).
The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by WHO in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted,
the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.
All reasonable precautions have been taken by WHO to verify the accuracy of the Datasets. However, the Datasets are being provided without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. You will be solely responsible for your use of
the Datasets. In no event shall WHO be liable for any damages arising from such use.
For full disclaimers, terms of use and your indemnification of WHO, please visit Terms and Conditions.
Datadot
Home
Indicators
Countries
About
More data from WHO
who.int/data
Global Health Estimates
Health Inequality Monitor
COVID-19 dashboard
Learn more
WHO data principles
WHO data policy
Terms and conditions
Language translations
Datadot
Home
Indicators
Countries
About
More data from WHO
who.int/data
Global Health Estimates
Health Inequality Monitor
COVID-19 dashboard
Learn more
WHO data principles
WHO data policy
Terms and conditions
Language translations
Privacy legal notice
©2024 WHO