Linux Hardware Reviews & Performance Benchmarks, Open-Source News - Phoronix
Articles & Reviews
News Archive
Forums
Premium Ad-Free Contact
Popular Categories
Close
Articles & Reviews
News Archive
Forums
Premium
Contact
Categories
Computers Display Drivers Graphics Cards Linux Gaming Memory Motherboards Processors Software Storage Operating Systems Peripherals
Latest Linux Hardware Reviews, Open-Source News & Benchmarks
AMD's GAIA For GenAI Adds Linux Support: Using Vulkan For GPUs, No NPUs Yet
3 Hours Ago - AMD - AMD GAIA - 1 CommentBack in March AMD announced the open-source GAIA software for GenAI but as noted in that former article, at launch it was limited to Windows-only support. AMD recently released a new version of GAIA with Linux support albeit in a rather interesting twist is limited to Vulkan acceleration.
Servo Engine Lands Support For Rendering Inline SVG Elements, More Performance
8 Hours Ago - Free Software - Servo - 11 CommentsThe Servo open-source browser engine project has published their monthly status update that covers all the improvements they made over the course of August. There's been a lot of progress on this Rust-based browser engine that has a lot of potential particularly for embedded/CEF-like use-cases.
Linux 6.18 Linear RAID "md-linear" To Support Atomic Writes
12 Hours Ago - Linux Storage - md-linear + atomic writes - 1 CommentBuilding off the work in months prior around Device Mapper atomic write support and related infrastructure, the md-linear target for linear software RAID support will enable atomic write support with the upcoming Linux 6.18 merge window.
PostgreSQL 18.0 Released With Async I/O, Performance Improvements
14 Hours Ago - Programming - PostgreSQL 18 - 7 CommentsPostgreSQL 18.0 is out today as the annual major feature release for this widely-used SQL database server. PostgreSQL 18 is a big one with many exciting performance optimizations and other new features.
BPF With Linux 6.18 To Support Signed Programs & Deferred Task Execution
14 Hours Ago - Linux Kernel - bpf-next - 1 CommentQueued this week into the BPF subsystem's "bpf-next" Git branch ahead of the Linux 6.18 merge window are some exciting feature additions.
Intel Posts New Linux Patches To Reduce Overhead Of VMSCAPE Mitigation
16 Hours Ago - Linux Security - Less Costly VMSCAPE - Add A CommentEarlier this month the VMSCAPE CPU security vulnerability was made public and affecting both AMD and Intel processors. VMSCAPE can lead to leaking information from a user-space hypervisor via speculative side channels. An Intel engineer today posted a new set of patches for helping to reduce the mitigation costs of VMSCAPE protections on modern Intel processors.
Wild: A Very Fast Linker Written In Rust, Aims To Outperform Mold Linker
17 Hours Ago - Programming - Wild Linker - 39 CommentsWhile the Mold linker has been very impressive for its speed the past few years compared to the linkers out of the LLVM and GNU toolchain projects, there is a new high speed linker on the scene and it's written in Rust: meet Wild.
Intel Media Driver 2025Q3 Prepares For Panther Lake
17 Hours Ago - Intel - Intel Media Driver 2025Q3 - 1 CommentThe Intel Media Driver 2025Q3 release is available today as the quarterly update to this open-source Video Acceleration API (VA-API) driver used by Intel hardware under Linux for video encode/decode.
Qualcomm Begins Posting Linux Patches For Snapdragon X2 Elite, 8 Elite Gen 5 SoCs
18 Hours Ago - Hardware - Snapdragon X2 Elite + Linux - 4 CommentsYesterday at the Snapdragon Summit in Hawaii Qualcomm announced the Snapdragon X2 Elite SoCs for upcoming laptops. In addition Qualcomm announced the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 mobile platform too. With those announcements out there, the Qualcomm open-source engineers have been busy in rolling out their latest patches for beginning to enable these new platforms with the Linux kernel.
Intel Releases IGSC 1.0 For Applying Firmware Updates To Graphics Cards
18 Hours Ago - Intel - IGSC 1.0 - 9 CommentsOvernight Intel released IGSC 1.0 as their library for handling graphics system firmware updates for rolling out firmware updates to Intel discrete graphics card devices.
Raspberry Pi 500+ Benchmarks: Mechanical Keyboard Computer, 16GB RAM & NVMe SSD
21 Hours Ago - Computers - 23 CommentsLast year Raspberry Pi launched the Raspberry Pi 500 for taking their Raspberry Pi keyboard computer into the Raspberry Pi 5 world. Today they are announcing the Raspberry Pi 500+ as an upgraded version of the device now with a mechanical keyboard, LED lighting, 16GB of RAM, and NVMe SSD storage.
24 September
SUSE Announces Better Support For NVIDIA CUDA
24 September 08:25 PM EDT - NVIDIA - SUSE + NVIDIA CUDA - 6 CommentsSUSE in partnership with NVIDIA today announced making the NVIDIA CUDA TOolkit officially available on all SUSE platforms.
Qualcomm Announces X2 Elite SoCs - Up To 18 Cores & Up To 5.0GHz Boost Frequency
24 September 05:35 PM EDT - Arm - Qualcomm X2 Elite - 25 CommentsQualcomm today announced the Snapdragon X2 Elite SoCs as building off their X Elite laptop SoCs that shipped last year. With the Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme (X2E-96-100) flagship is 18 cores with a 5.0GHz single and dual core boost frequency.
Linux Laptop Vendor MALIBAL Attempting To Pursue Made-In-USA Laptops
24 September 01:05 PM EDT - Hardware - Made In America Laptops? - 34 CommentsLinux/Windows laptop vendor MALIBAL that caused quite a fuss last year when suggesting against supporting Coreboot and in turn blocked shipping of products to states/countries where the involved developers were located is now pursuing an initiative of made-in-America laptops. But it's going to be a lengthy journey and first they are soliciting investments to first pursue American-made keyboards and touchpads.
The Massive AI Performance Benefit With AMX On Intel Xeon 6 "Granite Rapids"
24 September 10:20 AM EDT - Processors - 13 CommentsBesides the support for MRDIMM-8800 memory, another distinct advantage of Intel Xeon 6 "Granite Rapids" processors is the continued presence of Advanced Matrix Extensions (AMX). Here are some fresh benchmarks looking at the impact of AMX on the Intel Xeon 6980P processors for AI inference workloads.
Mesa's PowerVR Vulkan Driver Gets Rid Of Its Old Hardcoded Shader Code
24 September 09:10 AM EDT - Mesa - Hard Coded Blobs - 8 CommentsImagination's open-source PowerVR Vulkan driver within Mesa now is able to generate its different internal shaders required by the driver to forego shipping old hard-coded shaders.
Intel Moves Pre-Arc Graphics To "Legacy" Driver On Windows - Linux Users Need Not Worry
24 September 08:28 AM EDT - Intel - Intel Legacy Graphics - 15 CommentsIntel announced this week that its moving its graphics driver support for integrated graphics on 11th Gen through 14th Gen processors over to their legacy driver model on Microsoft Windows. While this is a setback for those using Raptor Lake processors on Windows as well as the few Xe DG1 discrete graphics out there, Linux users don't have much to worry about.
GCC 16 Will No Longer Treat Function Multi-Versioning As Experimental On ARM64
24 September 06:40 AM EDT - GNU - ARM64 FMV With GCC 16 - 2 CommentsFunction Multi-Versioning (FMV) is the compiler feature that allows developers to specify multiple versions of the same function that can be used for optimizing execution for specific target features. For example, FMV can allow optimized functions to be called if the CPU supports AVX, AVX-512, SSE4.2, or other differing ISA capabilities.
With the GCC 16 compiler release, AArch64/ARM64 now considers its FMV support to be stable and complete.
FFmpeg Introduces MPEG-H 3D Audio Decoding Support
24 September 06:28 AM EDT - Multimedia - MPEG-H 3D Audio decoding - 17 CommentsThe widely-used FFmpeg open-source multimedia library has merged support for MPEG-H 3D Audio decoding.
Sony DualSense Controller Audio Jack Handling Ready For Linux 6.18
24 September 06:18 AM EDT - Linux Gaming - DualSense Audio Jack Handling - 15 CommentsIn addition to the patches providing haptic touchpad support for Linux 6.18, another notable HID addition queued into the "hid-next" tree ahead of the imminent Linux 6.18 merge window is proper audio jack handling with the Sony PlayStation DualSense controller.
23 September
SquashFS Optimization Achieves 15,277x Performance In Developer Benchmark
23 September 08:23 PM EDT - Linux Storage - SquashFS Sparse - 16 CommentsSquashFS developer Phillip Lougher posted a patch today just over one hundred lines of code yielding an outright massive performance gain for some operations with this compressed read-only file-system.
Haptic Touchpad Support Expected For Linux 6.18
23 September 05:48 PM EDT - Hardware - Haptic Touchpad - 5 CommentsThe upcoming Linux 6.18 kernel is expected to land initial haptic touchpad support as part of the HID subsystem updates.
Bytedance Proposes "Parker" For Linux: Multiple Kernels Running Simultaneously
23 September 12:11 PM EDT - Linux Kernel - Linux Parker - 29 CommentsIt was just a few days ago that a multi-kernel architecture was proposed for the Linux kernel. Separate from that proposal from Multikernel Technologies, it turns out Bytedance has been working on their own similar solution called Parker. Today Bytedance lifted the lid on Parker as their solution for running multiple kernels simultaneously on the same hardware/system.
Running The Bcachefs DKMS Modules On Ubuntu Linux
23 September 09:46 AM EDT - Software - 142 CommentsWith DKMS packages now being available for Ubuntu and Debian Linux distributions for running the latest out-of-tree Bcachefs file-system driver support with ease and reproducibility, I decided to try out the updated Bcachefs driver on Ubuntu Linux to see how the performance is relative to the upstream Linux 6.17 kernel with its now-frozen Bcachefs support.
Linux 6.18 To Improve Support For Apple's A11, Other Apple Silicon Improvements
23 September 09:14 AM EDT - Apple - Apple SIlicon + Linux 6.18 - 1 CommentTwo pull requests were submitted this weekend of new Apple Silicon material ready for upstreaming with the soon-to-start Linux 6.18 kernel cycle.
AMD Versal NET DDR EDAC Driver Ready For Linux 6.18
23 September 08:33 AM EDT - AMD - AMD Versal NET DDR EDAC Driver - 2 CommentsFor further enhancing the upstream Linux kernel support for the AMD (Xilinx) Versal SoCs, a new Error Detection And Correction (EDAC) driver is set to premiere in the upcoming Linux 6.18 kernel for the Versal NET SoCs with DDR memory.
New Patches Optimize EXT4 Online Defragmentation For Better Performance
23 September 06:50 AM EDT - Linux Storage - EXT4 Online Defragmentation - 19 CommentsA set of 13 patches were posted today to the Linux kernel mailing list for optimizing the online defragmentation handling by the EXT4 kernel driver. The online defragmentation improvements for EXT4 can net a nice performance win with a very significant improvement in a variety of scenarios.
Mesa 25.3 Lands SPIR-V Shader Replacement Support
23 September 06:45 AM EDT - Mesa - SPIR-V Shader Replacement - 7 CommentsMerged to Mesa 25.3-devel on Monday is SPIR-V shader replacement support as a new feature for helping Mesa's Vulkan drivers in testing and debugging issues.
FFmpeg Lands Support For AHX, ADPCM Silicon Graphics N64 Decoder
23 September 06:20 AM EDT - Multimedia - FFmpeg - 2 CommentsBeyond the continued flow of new performance optimizations via hand-written Assembly, with the FFmpeg project it's also interesting to monitor their ever-expanding scope of supported audio/video formats. The newest to land in FFmpeg Git is support for AHX audio files.
Qt 6.10 RC Available For Testing With Native PipeWire Audio Back-End
23 September 06:05 AM EDT - Qt - Qt 6.10 - 17 CommentsOut today is the Qt 6.10 release candidate for this forthcoming toolkit release.
22 September
OBS Studio 32.0 Released With Plugin Manager, NVIDIA RTX Improvements
22 September 08:40 PM EDT - Multimedia - OBS Studio 32 - 4 CommentsOBS Studio 32.0 stable is now available for this popular cross-platform desktop recording and screencasting software popular with game streamers and for a variety of other recording/casting purposes.
GNU Coreutils 9.8 Released With New Features
22 September 05:38 PM EDT - GNU - Coreutils 9.8 - 59 CommentsWhile the Rust Coreutils project has been generating a lot of interest recently from the uutils initiative, the upstream GNU Coreutils project isn't slowing down and today is out with GNU Coreutils 9.8 for shipping the newest features.
RPM 6.0 Released With OpenPGP Improvements & Enforces Signature Checking By Default
22 September 11:54 AM EDT - Red Hat - RPM 6.0 - 33 CommentsRPM 6.0 is out today as the newest major update to the RPM Package Manager as the package management system most commonly associated with Red Hat / Fedora, openSUSE, Mageia / OpenMandriva, and others.
AMD Ryzen AI Max+ "Strix Halo" Performance With ROCm 7.0
22 September 10:30 AM EDT - Display Drivers - 30 CommentsWith last week's official release of ROCm 7.0 failing to mention the AMD Ryzen AI Max "Strix Halo" SoCs on the supported GPU list, a number of Phoronix readers and from elsewhere were inquiring whether or not Strix Halo works with the new ROCm release. Various AMD folks have mentioned Strix Halo with ROCm, so I decided to run some benchmarks for myself of ROCm 7.0 on Ubuntu Linux with the AMD Ryzen AI Max 395 with Radeon 8060S Graphics on the Framework Desktop.
A Major Trading Firm Has Open-Sourced The Latest Linux File-System: TernFS
22 September 08:35 AM EDT - Linux Storage - XTX TernFS - 64 CommentsXTX Markets as one of the largest algorithmic trading firms that handles $250 billion in daily traded volume and relies on around 650+ petabytes of storage for its price forecasts and other algorithmic trading data has open-sourced its Linux file-system. XTX developed TernFS for distributed storage after they outgrew their original NFS usage and other file-system alternatives.
Linux 6.18 Adding A New Power Savings Option For The Intel Graphics Driver
22 September 08:00 AM EDT - Intel - SLPC Power Profile - 3 CommentsQueued up into DRM-Next is a last batch of Intel Xe kernel graphics driver improvements ahead of the Linux 6.18 merge window that is expected to begin next week. With this last minute Intel Xe driver activity is also a new power management knob for those wanting to run their Intel graphics slightly more efficient.
Qt Creator 18 Beta Brings Development Container Support
22 September 06:30 AM EDT - Qt - Qt Creator 18 - 16 CommentsThe beta release of the Qt Creator 18 integrated development environment is now available for testing for this Qt/C++-focused IDE.
Vulkan 1.4.327 Introduces A New Valve Vendor Extension
22 September 06:15 AM EDT - Vulkan - VK_VALVE_video_encode_rgb_conversion - 10 CommentsVersion 1.4.327 of the Vulkan API specification was released on Friday and with it comes one new extension, which is a Valve vendor extension.
FreeBSD 15.0 Alpha 3 Brings WiFi Driver Updates
22 September 06:03 AM EDT - BSD - FreeBSD 15 - 2 CommentsThe third weekly alpha release of the upcoming FreeBSD 15 operating system is now available for testing.
Raspberry Pi Releases M.2 HAT+ Compact For $15
22 September 05:52 AM EDT - Raspberry Pi - Raspberry Pi M.2 HAT+ Compact - 13 CommentsRaspberry Pi today announced the M.2 HAT+ Compact as a new smaller version of their M.2 HAT+ for these single board computers.
21 September
Linux 6.17-rc7 Released: Linux 6.17 Stable Expected Next Week
21 September 06:30 PM EDT - Linux Kernel - Linux 6.17 - 2 CommentsLinus Torvalds just released Linux 6.17-rc7 as the last planned release candidate of the in-development Linux 6.17 kernel that is expected to go final next weekend.
Linux Ready To Upstream Support For Google's PSP Encryption For TCP Connections
21 September 09:04 AM EDT - Linux Networking - PSP Encryption For TCP Connections - 10 CommentsNot to be confused with AMD's Platform Security Processor (PSP), but Google's PSP Security Protocol (PSP) for encryption in-transit for TCP network connections is now ready for the mainline kernel. This initial PSP encryption support for network connections is set to arrive with the upcoming Linux 6.18 kernel.
Multi-Kernel Architecture Proposed For The Linux Kernel
21 September 06:39 AM EDT - Linux Kernel - Linux Multi-Kernel Architecture - 52 CommentsCode was open-sourced this week and posted to the Linux kernel mailing list as a "request for comments" (RFC) for a multi-kernel architecture. This proposal could allow for multiple independent kernel instances to co-exist on a single physical machine. Each kernel could run on dedicated CPU Cores while sharing underlying hardware resources. This could also allow for some complex use-cases such as real-time (RT) kernels running on select CPU cores.
Linux 6.18 Expected To Land Google's Rust Binder Driver
21 September 06:22 AM EDT - Linux Kernel - Rust Binder - 29 CommentsThe past few years Google engineers have been reimplementing Android's Binder driver in the Rust programming language. Binder is a critical part of Android for inter-process communication (IPC) and now with Linux 6.18 it looks like the Rust rewrite will be upstreamed.
20 September
Ad-Free Viewing By Showing Your Support During The Phoronix Oktoberfest / Autumn Sale
20 September 11:00 PM EDT - Phoronix - Fall Sale 2025 - 29 CommentsWhile years ago it was a annual ritual and closest thing to a vacation around here (even though the daily original content persisted), the Phoronix pilgrimage/meet-up at Oktoberfest in Munich sadly remains on hiatus. Web publishing operations remain difficult given the state of the industry and rampant ad-block use make even daily operations tight. But for those wishing to show their support for Phoronix during this autumn/fest period, there is the annual Phoronix Premium sale special for those wishing to help the site at a discounted rate to enjoy ad-free viewing, multi-page articles on a single page, native dark mode, and other benefits.
Linux 6.18 To Make It Easier Parsing PCI Device Serial Numbers
20 September 08:59 PM EDT - Hardware - serial_number - 3 CommentsA patch queued into the PCI subsystem's "next" branch ahead of the Linux 6.18 merge window will uniformally expose the PCI device serial number of devices via sysfs for easy programmatic parsing.
Git Developers Debate Making Rust Mandatory
20 September 02:53 PM EDT - Programming - Mandatory Rust? - 104 CommentsDevelopers behind the Git distributed revision control system are debating whether to make Rust programming language support mandatory.
Debian's APT Gaining Built-In History Command
20 September 06:44 AM EDT - Debian - apt history - 8 CommentsRather than needing to parse package/history log files manually and akin to functionality provided by Red Hat's DNF, a merge request is pending to add a built-in history command for APT.
AMD ISP4 Driver Still Pending Review For The Linux Kernel
20 September 06:37 AM EDT - AMD - Will It Hit Linux 6.18? - 12 CommentsWhen it comes to AMD's incredible Strix Halo platform, the leading laptop option is the HP ZBook Ultra G1a. The HP ZBook Ultra G1a works great overall on Linux with the main caveat being the web camera due to making use of AMD's latest SoC capabilities for offloaded image processing. The AMD ISP4 open-source driver fixes that for the ZBook Ultra G1a and is also important for future laptop models employing AMD's ISP IP.
DKMS Packages For Bcachefs Are Now Available On Debian & Ubuntu
20 September 06:24 AM EDT - Linux Storage - Out-Of-Tree DKMS - 59 CommentsWith Bcachefs now being "externally maintained" with the upstream kernel not accepting any further feature changes for now to this copy-on-write file-system, Bcachefs is pursuing a nice DKMS experience for distributing updated file-system kernel driver support out-of-tree. Convenient DKMS Debian packages of Bcachefs are now available on Ubuntu and Debian Linux platforms.
KDE Plasma 6.5 Preps Yet More Wayland Fixes & Improvements
20 September 06:06 AM EDT - KDE - Plasma 6.5 + Wayland - 8 CommentsWhile KDE Plasma 6.5 beta released this week, KDE developers have been busy landing last-minute minor features and fixes into this next desktop release.
Past 30 Days Of News | Articles & Reviews | News Archives | RSS Feed
Most Popular News This Week
A Major Trading Firm Has Open-Sourced The Latest Linux File-System: TernFS
Multi-Kernel Architecture Proposed For The Linux Kernel
Git Developers Debate Making Rust Mandatory
Linux Ready To Upstream Support For Google's PSP Encryption For TCP Connections
Rust 1.90 Released With LLD Default On Linux x86_64 While macOS x86_64 Demoted
Ubuntu 25.10 Beta Officially Released For Testing
Bytedance Proposes "Parker" For Linux: Multiple Kernels Running Simultaneously
NVIDIA To Make $5B Investment Into Intel - x86 RTX SoCs & More To Come
KDE Plasma 6.5 Beta Released With KNightTime, Rounded Bottom Window Corners
Debian's APT Gaining Built-In History Command
Popular In The Forums
Running The Bcachefs DKMS Modules On Ubuntu Linux
142 Comments
GNU Coreutils 9.8 Released With New Features
59 Comments
A Major Trading Firm Has Open-Sourced The Latest Linux File-System: TernFS
64 Comments
Multi-Kernel Architecture Proposed For The Linux Kernel
52 Comments
Git Developers Debate Making Rust Mandatory
104 Comments
Show Your Support, Go Premium
Phoronix Premium allows ad-free access to the site, multi-page articles on a single page, and other features while supporting this site's continued operations.
Latest Featured Articles
Raspberry Pi 500+ Benchmarks: Mechanical Keyboard Computer, 16GB RAM & NVMe SSD
The Massive AI Performance Benefit With AMX On Intel Xeon 6 "Granite Rapids"
Running The Bcachefs DKMS Modules On Ubuntu Linux
AMD Ryzen AI Max+ "Strix Halo" Performance With ROCm 7.0
Linux 6.17 File-System Benchmarks, Including OpenZFS & Bcachefs
Popular Articles In The Past
FFmpeg Introduces MPEG-H 3D Audio Decoding Support
Yesterday
Rust 1.90 Released With LLD Default On Linux x86_64 While macOS x86_64 Demoted
7 Days Ago
GhostBSD Ships "Gershwin" Desktop Environment For A macOS Like Experience
One Month Ago
XZ 5.8 Debuts As First Major Feature Release Since The Backdoor Disaster
Six Months Ago
Valve Engineer Mike Blumenkrantz Hoping To Accelerate Wayland Protocol Development
One Year Ago
PipeWire 1.0 Planned For Release Later This Year
Two Years Ago
Btrfs Async Buffered Writes Slated For Linux 6.1 - 2x Throughput Improvement
Three Years Ago
AMD Sends Out Linux Kernel Support For Van Gogh APUs - Confirms DDR5 Memory, VCN3
Five Years Ago
GStreamer 1.6 Officially Released
Ten Years Ago
Support Phoronix
The mission at Phoronix since 2004 has centered around enriching the Linux hardware experience. In addition to supporting our site through advertisements, you can help by subscribing to Phoronix Premium. You can also contribute to Phoronix through tips/donations via PayPal or Stripe.
Phoronix Media
Contact
Michael Larabel
Phoronix Premium
Support Phoronix
While Having Ad-Free Browsing,
Single-Page Article Viewing
Share
Facebook
Twitter / X
Legal Disclaimer, Privacy Policy, Cookies | Privacy Manager | Contact
Copyright © 2004 - 2025 by Phoronix Media.
All trademarks used are properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.