3 ways that Metal Gear Solid Delta makes Snake Eater so much better to play now
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
3 ways that Metal Gear Solid Delta makes Snake Eater so much better to play now
By
Jakejames Lugo
Published Sep 7, 2025
Jakejames Lugo is a writer that has been covering video games and other entertainment for many years. He has written and published reviews, guides, listicles, and other content that anyone interested in gaming would follow. A lot of his work can be found in places like IGN, Dot Esports, Red Bull Gaming, The Outerhaven, Playboy Gaming, and many other outlets.
Jakejames continues to be part of the big conversations surrounding video games and entertainment. You can always find him sharing his undying passion for games online.
Related
Forget the Switch 2, the Steam Deck is still the ultimate travel console
4 PowerToys Run automation snippets anyone can use
I use TrueNAS in a Proxmox VM, and I prefer it over bare metal
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Fans of Metal Gear Solid are getting the chance to dive back into the world of Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater with the release of Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater on current-day consoles. The game keeps the same story as the original Hideo Kojima game, but presents it with a completely new coat of paint, rendering every character and environment in stunning detail. For many, this is the best way to experience the story of the first chronological entry of the series. Big Boss and his allies have never looked this good before. But Metal Gear Solid Delta isn't just a pretty facelift for a legendary video game. The new visuals may be the most obvious change, but it's everything else connected to it that makes Metal Gear Solid Delta a better release than how we remember the third entry in the series on the PlayStation 2. Here are three ways that Metal Gear Solid Delta makes playing through Snake Eater so much better now.
Better environments with better details
The jungle feels alive and dangerous
The visual upgrade of Metal Gear Solid Delta does a lot of good with everything we see on screen, but it also makes moving around through all of it feel more dynamic. Jungle environments and military installations look and feel more lived-in by the characters who inhabit that world. The little details from footprints, bullet holes, and various wildlife that slither around don't allow the places you go to feel like boxed areas for Snake to traverse. They look and feel like dangerous settings that will force you to rethink how you approach sneaking past guards and exploring around without getting spotted. Crawling through the grass to avoid detection looks more believable with all the extra detail in the visuals. It's so good to the point that you might overlook nearby animals that can bite Snake and cause you to react suddenly, forcing you into a situation where you might be spotted. At the same time, hiding from guards in areas can feel more practical, especially when dark areas or obscured locations can make Snake's camouflage appear useful, and much more believable. But the inverse of all this can be just as true, as enemies can spot Snake easily when he stands out from his surroundings. It makes moments where you're spotted make a lot more sense, despite still being frustrating. The triangle of vision that guards have can seem more like the practical vision of a real person, as opposed to a blocky boundary that can be exploited by players.
Small things add to the story
New visuals enhance the emotional moments
With the newly detailed models for the characters that we see in Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, the big moments in the story can look and feel more potent. With the original game, the story was still impactful and interesting to follow, but it still suffered from the limitations of the PlayStation 2 hardware. What we see wasn't always as detailed as it was intended to be, nor as clear because of the limited range of colors and lighting on character models and locations. Many of the nuanced aspects of every villain we meet or expressions on someone's face were lost in the mix. With Metal Gear Solid Delta, a lot of that can be seen and recognized during cutscenes this time around. Even something as small as bee stings on the body of The Pain rendered can convey a level of trauma and hardship of that character, which can totally change how players see him during the encounter. And there are many examples throughout the game where this pushes each dramatic moment of Snake Eater beyond what the original release could do. Seeing the expressions on the faces of guards change during different scenarios could shift the tone of what is happening, offering a dimension that their original versions just wouldn't be able to show.
Source: Steam
Some of the most iconic scenes in the original game, such as Snake saluting the grave of The Boss during the finale, can show another layer of emotion on his face. Something as light as a single tear on his face, or a quivering lip while looking down at the grave, makes that moment even bigger and more emotional. It's these extra details from the graphical presentation that make the drama of the story even more potent.
Extras in a whole new light
The bonuses are sweeter
Like in every other Metal Gear Solid game that gets released, discovering easter eggs and bonuses is part of the fun. The original Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater had a ton of things for players to find and unlock when playing through the main game, which offered a ton of replayability in the process. And while most of the extra goodies from the original Snake Eater are still in Metal Gear Solid Delta, all of them get a major upgrade in different ways. They're the same kind of things you've probably seen for the past 20+ years, but you haven't experienced them like this. Snake vs Ape is still a goofy bonus mode that has Snake chasing around the monkeys from the Ape Escape games, but it looks 100 times better now. The little guys are still goofy and designed in the same style as their own game, but have a level of polish to them that somehow manages to make sense within the world of Snake Eater now. Seeing a monkey stand atop a Metal Gear Ape machine and shouting Snake's name still manages to be funny, whether it looks blocky or rendered in greater detail.
At the same time, all the hidden pictures and easter eggs that fans know from the original game are given a fresh coat of paint. It's small changes like this that will entice the curiosity of long-time fans to want to track them down and see what's different about them, while newer players still have the treat of discovering secrets for the first time. The model pictures that are hidden in various locations all have updated images of the same models, hidden frequencies with certain effects are still present, and special encounters with alternate outcomes can still be discovered with similar methods. Even something as simple as navigating the cutscenes unlocked from the main game are presented in a way that looks and feels better, with Snake running through a virtual room where the cutscenes can be played. The biggest bonus for the game is the Guy Savage mode, which can unlocked after completing the game once or discovered during a section of the story. Unlike the original Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, the hidden demo was given a complete facelift by having development studio Platinum Games remake it. It looks better, plays better, and feels a lot more special with this re-release, especially with a completely different studio making it. Guy Savage mode hasn't been seen in the re-releases of the original game, and only now in Metal Gear Solid Delta does it make a return as an easter egg, giving everyone more of a reason to dive into this version of the game.
A better Snake Eater for us
Anyone who has never played the original Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater owes it to themselves to play this new version of the game. Not only is it a better-looking game, but it's a re-imagining of Snake Eater that clearly has a lot of respect for the original in ways that make it the definitive way to experience this story. Every part of the game that people have praised for years is made even better with small changes that come from the new visuals. The suspense is more potent, the story is even more dramatic, and the payoff from spending a lot of time playing is still incredibly satisfying. No matter if you're a Metal Gear veteran or someone just diving into the Hideo Kojima-made world for the first time, Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater is how everyone should experience this entry in the series from now on.
9/10
Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Shooter
Adventure
Stealth
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
86/100
Critics Rec:
90%
Released
August 28, 2025
ESRB
Mature 17+ // Blood, Sexual Themes, Violence
Developer(s)
Konami
Publisher(s)
Konami
5 Images
Source: KonamiSource: KonamiClose
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Engine
Unreal Engine 5
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
PlayStation 5
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
Want to improve your RAM timings? Here's what I learned to make it easier
Sep 10, 2025
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with an ESP32 than a Raspberry Pi
Sep 9, 2025
I used to fear the Raspberry Pi’s underwater Wi-Fi capabilities, but now I’m looking forward to it
Sep 9, 2025
This underdog brand's NAS is now blowing up on Amazon thanks to a new low price
More from our brands
I Played Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater Guns Blazing and Have No Regrets
For Better or Worse, Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater Doesn’t Rock the Boat
One of Snake Eater’s Best Boss Fights is Better Than Ever in Metal Gear Solid Delta
Beginner Tips & Tricks in Metal Gear Solid Delta Snake Eater
Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater Review - Faithful To A Fault
Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater is a gorgeous, cautious remake
Metal Gear Solid Delta Could’ve Benefitted From One of Final Fantasy 16’s Best Features
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I swapped Trello for Focalboard on my NAS, and it's so much better
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
I use these Microsoft Teams tricks for flawless communication
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.