I got a glimpse of future Android smartphones - here are 3 major upgrades you can expect | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
I got a glimpse of future Android smartphones - here are 3 major upgrades you can expect
The new Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset will fuel new Android experiences.
Written by
Sabrina Ortiz, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 1:30 p.m. PT
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysQualcomm launched its new Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset. The mobile platform will fuel new experiences on Android.The new features span photography, AI, and connectivity. While chipsets may not be the most exciting component of a phone, they are responsible for powering a lot of the activities you enjoy every day, including gaming, photography, audio, internet connectivity, and, of course, AI features. That's why Qualcomm's announcement of its new Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset gives us a good idea of what's next to come for the future of Android phones. The new mobile platform features upgrades to the CPU, GPU, and NPU, which make it faster and more capable than before. If you are interested in all of the specs, including some benchmarks I ran it through, you can check out this article. However, for how this chipset translates into improvements in everyday experiences, you can read below. 1. More capable AI agentsAI agents have become the craze in the past year. They take AI assistance one step forward, actually performing tasks on your behalf. However, the efficiency of how well an AI agent works depends on how much information it already knows about you, as it is in that way that it knows what actions to suggest to maximize its helpfulness. The Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset helps with that. Also: These consumer-facing industries are the fastest adopters of AI agentsThe Qualcomm Hexagon NPU got some upgrades, including even more AI accelerators, enabling it to run 37% faster speeds and 16% better performance per watt. When this is combined with the Qualcomm Sensing Hub, which features on-device AI learning features such as a personal knowledge graph and Qualcomm Personal Scribe, it powers new, personalized, agentic experiences. Another important factor is that the AI-learning features run on-device, making sure your information stays secure by bypassing the cloud. 2. Photography When you think of a really good camera system, you likely only think of the actual camera specs. However, a lot of what contributes to a good-quality shot depends on computational photography, which occurs in the background when a photo is taken to adjust for elements like tone mapping, lighting, and more. The Qualcomm Spectra Image Signal Processor (ISP) was upgraded to a 20-bit pipeline for 4x the dynamic range, which enables more sophisticated AI-based adjustments. Also: I fell in love with a $2,000 mirrorless camera that puts design and simplicity over everything elseThe upgrades also extend to video, with the chipset supporting "pro-grade" visual tools. This includes being the first chipset able to record in Advanced Professional Video (APV) Codec, which allows for better control in post-production and higher-quality captures; context-aware auto-focus, auto exposure, and auto-white balance; and higher-quality audio captures with Snapdragon Audio Sense, a suite of microphone technology that enables the recording of "pro-level sound" with wind-noise rejection, audio zoom, and HDR audio; among other improvements. 3. ConnectivityWhile you may think of AI in every other realm than your phone's connectivity, it impacts that, too. Qualcomm said the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset supports "AI-powered mobile connectivity that combines the latest in 5G, 5G-Advanced, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and UWB technologies," made possible by its Qualcomm X85 5G Modem-RF. Also: How Nvidia and OpenAI's staggering $100 billion deal could fuel a new age of AIThis means that, as a user, the modem should enable 5G advanced connectivity with faster speeds, more battery efficiency, and increased network reliability, as the company highlighted in its release. The Qualcomm FastConnect 7900 Mobile Connectivity System also contributes to battery efficiency, as the company said it offers up to 405 power savings. Disclosure: The cost of Sabrina Ortiz's travel to Maui, Hawaii, for the Snapdragon Summit was covered by Qualcomm, a common industry practice for long-distance trips. The judgments and opinions of ZDNET's writers and editors are always independent of the companies we cover.Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This new Snapdragon chipset supports 220 tokens per second - here's why that's a big deal
Your next Android phone could be a massive upgrade - thanks to Qualcomm's newest chipset
I test dozens of phones every year: How iPhone 17 stacks up with Google, Samsung, more
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use