I Tested 11 Car Vacuums to Find the 4 Best in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Vacuum Cleaners
I Tested 11 Car Vacuums to Find the 4 Best in 2025
I tested each car vacuum for suction power, battery life and overall user-friendliness to find the best vacs to keep your ride spotless.
Our Experts
Written by
John Carlsen
Article updated on August 8, 2025 at 4:34 AM PDT
John Carlsen
John Carlsen has more than a decade of experience testing and reviewing home tech products, with a major focus on smart home security. He earned his BS in journalism from Utah Valley University. In addition to his CNET contributions, John has written for Android Police, TWICE, Home Theater Review, SafeWise, ASecureLife and Top Ten Reviews. Expertise Smart Home | Home Security | Home Tech | Internet Security | Product Testing
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Factors to consider
Cost
Is a pricier vac worth the splurge to keep your car clean?
Portability
Some vacs can ride along with you while others should be kept at home.
Attachments
If getting in those nooks is important, attachments are key.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Cars collect dirt, dust, crumbs and clutter with the best of them. To find the best tool to keep your truck, sedan or SUV clean, I spent a week testing more than 10 portable car vacuums on everything from light surface dust to truly grimy messes. I ran tests on each vacuum to analyze suction power, battery life, noise levels and overall usability. After hours of trials and data collection, the Worx 20V Power Share Cordless Cube Vac stood out for its strong performance, long-lasting battery and compact, easy-to-handle design. The reasonable $98 price sealed the deal, earning the Worx the No. 1 spot on this list of the best car vacuums for 2025. Our Picks
Best car vacuum overall Worx 20V Power Share Cordless Cube Vac
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best car vacuum splurge Dyson V8
Jump to details
$309 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget car vacuum Black & Decker Dustbuster Blast
Jump to details
$39 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best light-duty car vacuum Fanttik Slim V8 Apex
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
VACUUM DEALS OF THE WEEK
Narwal Freo Z Ultra Robot Vacuum and Mop (White):  $930 (save $570)
iRobot Roomba Combo i5 Robot Vacuum and Mop:  $199 (save $151)
Shark AV2511AE AI Robot Vacuum With XL Self-Empty Base:  $298 (save $302)
Eufy RoboVac 11S Max Self-Charging Robot Vacuum Cleaner (Black):  $155 (save $125)
Roborock S8 Max Ultra Robot Vacuum and Mop (Black):  $800 (save $500) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
I Tested 11 Car Vacuums to Find the 4 Best in 2025
What is the best car vacuum overall?
Best car vacuums for 2025
Best car vacuum overall
Best car vacuum splurge
Best budget car vacuum
Best light-duty car vacuum
Other car vacuums we tested
How we tested car vacuums
Best car vacuums battery length tested
Testing the noise levels of car vacuums
Car vacuum buying guide: Things to consider
Best car vacuum FAQs
The lineup of vacuums we tested to find the best overall car vac, best premium model and best budget car vac for 2025. John Carlsen/CNETWhat is the best car vacuum overall?Below you'll find a breakdown of the 11 models I tested, including Dyson's $470 V8 portable vacuum and others that cost a whole lot less but offer performance worthy of a place on our list. Best car vacuums for 2025
John Carlsen
Photo Gallery 1/1
John Carlsen
Best car vacuum overall
Worx 20V Power Share Cordless Cube Vac
Pros
Outstanding cleaning performance
Swappable battery lasts more than 20 minutes and charges very quickly
Built-in attachment storage
Cons
Dust bin is on the small side
Bin isn't detachable
At first glance, the Worx 20-volt Power Share Cordless Cube Vac's small dust cup and relatively low airflow are unimpressive. However, specs can be deceiving, as this car vacuum's cleaning performance, long battery life and compact size are hard to beat for about $100.The Worx earned the highest average cleaning performance score among battery-powered units by acing the pet hair and large debris tests. It lagged slightly behind the Dyson V8 and Black & Decker Dustbuster Pivot in our combination dirt, rocks and hair test, but managed a strong showing when removing a grimy stain. It tied with the Dyson for top marks when pulling up powder.The Worx's telescoping crevice nozzle is the star of the show. It uses a flexible rubber tip that's surprisingly good at loosening stubborn hair and other debris. I turned to the crevice tool more often than the brush attachment. Unlike rivals, you can store the attachments on the vacuum. The built-in hose also means reaching tight spaces and odd angles without lifting the unit.At 21 minutes, 24 seconds, the Worx outlasted all but three rivals: the Fanttik, Dyson and Drecell. Because the Fanttik and Drecell are underpowered, only the Dyson puts up a fight at more than three times the price. The Worx is also the only model using a swappable battery that lasted more than 20 minutes (on the low setting) with the Ryobi and DeWalt trailing. It also recharges very quickly.Worx Cube Vac's biggest deficiency is a 207 ml (7-ounce) dust cup, the third smallest among the 11 vacuums tested. Still, its quick-release button makes it easy to empty into a trashcan -- alongside the Dyson and Black & Decker Pivot. The dustbin's second flaw is that it doesn't detach from the vacuum, so you can't wash it with water like the competition's detachable bins.Ultimately, the Worx 20-volt Power Share Cordless Cube Vac's compact size, performance and maneuverability make it the best vacuum for most cars. If you already own a Worx Power Share 20-volt battery and charger, you can buy the tool-only version for around $59.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$120 at Walmart
$120 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Runtime (as tested)
21 minutes and 24 secondsBin capacity
207 mlAttachments included
Crevice tool, dusting brushWeight
3 lbsPrice
$98
Add to compare
John Carlsen
Photo Gallery 1/1
John Carlsen
Best car vacuum splurge
Dyson V8
Pros
Very long runtime
Outstanding cleaning performance
Powered brushes
Cons
Very expensive
Not always comfortable when used as a handheld vacuum
Many people consider Dyson the top vacuum cleaner brand and it's hard to deny that reputation when it performs so well in testing. The Dyson V8 is a stick vacuum, it hits the best balance of power and battery life in our comparison. If not for the high price tag, it would easily surpass the Worx to top this list.The Dyson V8 lasted a superb 36 minutes, 52 seconds in low mode, the second-best battery life on our list behind the Fanttik. Unlike the Fanttik, it has power, bin capacity and cleaning performance to spare. Still, the battery drains surprisingly quickly in high mode.Dyson's powered brushes achieved perfect scores for pet hair cleanup, but a few sticky crumbs held it back in our large debris test. Our grimy stain proved too resilient for any of the vacuums in our combination test but Dyson came closest to removing it and did a great job cleaning what other vacuums missed. It did very well when cleaning powder but lost some points to a clogged filter when I tried to clean a stubborn crevice.Despite being one of Dyson's more affordable stick vacuums, the V8's $330 price tag makes it the most expensive vacuum in our review. The flexibility for cleaning floors in the house takes away some of the sting. Using this vacuum in handheld mode isn't very comfortable because it's a bit bulkier than the competition. (I recommend investing in a Dyson Extension Hose for more comfort and maneuverability.) The Dyson Humdinger is the brand's only handheld vacuum, but I found online reviews underwhelming when selecting a test candidate. I think the smaller size would work well for people who don't want a stick vacuum or want to save a small amount of cash compared with the V8.In terms of pure cleaning performance, I don't doubt that the Dyson V8 would be a great fit for most people. It's out of reach for the average budget.  ... Show more
Get it now
$309 at Amazon
$385 at Walmart
$470 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Runtime (as tested)
36 minutes and 52 secondsBin capacity
530 mlAttachments included
Crevice tool, combination tool, powered hair brush, powered floor brush, extension wandWeight
5.6 lbsPrice
$470
Add to compare
John Carlsen/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
John Carlsen/CNET
Best budget car vacuum
Black & Decker Dustbuster Blast
Pros
Great performance under $50
Decent battery life
Flip-up brush attachment
Cons
Terrible filter
Finicky dust bin lock
One of the lightest models we tested
I wasn't overly impressed with the handheld car vacuums under $90, but the Black & Decker Dustbuster Blast's balance of cleaning performance and battery life ultimately prevails over its closest budget rivals.This car vacuum includes two attachments: a crevice tool and a flip-up brush on the main nozzle. The brush was also fairly effective during testing. The battery on this cordless vacuum lasted 16 minutes, 34 seconds -- a bit more practical than Shark Cyclone Pet's 11 minutes. Still, suction power starts to fade around 15 minutes. (The battery lasted more than 17 minutes in testing but the suction was nonexistent after 16.6 minutes.)Dustbuster Blast scored an average of 87% in our cleaning tests, landing firmly in the middle of the pack. When picking up pet hair, it stood on even ground with the Shark Cyclone Pet, Bissell Pet Hair Eraser and Fanttik. Still, it didn't match the quality of Worx and Dyson.It slightly trailed the Shark Cyclone Pet when sucking up large debris, but it matched DeWalt and Ryobi. The Dustbuster Blast did surprisingly well in the combination test, tying with Bissell, but couldn't keep up with pricier models such as the Dyson V8, Dustbuster Pivot, Worx and DeWalt.My biggest gripe was the powder test, where the Blast was second-worst behind Drecell. The issue wasn't that it couldn't produce a clean result but that the filter allowed so much dust to pass straight through. Each time I pulled the trigger, a puff of dust came out of the vacuum -- the least effective filter on this list.Another notable drawback of the Dustbuster Blast is that the dustbin doesn't lock in place nearly as well as other vacuums on this list. Fortunately, you can solve this issue by rotating it until it clicks a second time.Despite its flaws, the Black & Decker Dustbuster Blast is a capable little unit that works well for light- and medium-duty cleaning.  ... Show more
Get it now
$39 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Runtime (as tested)
16 minutes and 34 secondsBin capacity
290 mlAttachments included
Crevice tool, flip-up brushWeight
2.2 lbsPrice
$45
Add to compare
John Carlsen/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
John Carlsen/CNET
Best light-duty car vacuum
Fanttik Slim V8 Apex
Pros
Longest battery life in testing
Rechargeable via USB-C
Excellent hair and lint removal
Cons
Small dust bin
Not ideal for deep cleaning
The lightest on our list at just 1 lb
The Fanttik Slim V8 Apex proves that ultra-compact car vacuums can work well for frequent, light-duty cleaning. It achieved the longest battery life in our tests with an impressive 38 minutes, 54 seconds in low mode, outlasting the Dyson by two full minutes. High-power mode is nice for extra suction at the expense of battery life.It's not the only cordless car vacuum on our list with USB-C charging but the Fanttik is smaller than the Shark Cyclone Pet and more effective than the Drecell. It's a perfect candidate to keep in your car's trunk or glove box. While this car vacuum's small attachments slowed my progress on large surfaces, I like that it comes with many, as well as a spare filter and carrying bag.At 75%, Fanttik's average cleaning performance is a mixed bag but its rubber brushes easily power through pet hair and lint. Only Worx and Dyson were better. Its worst result came in the large debris test, where sticky cereal clogged the nozzle and filled the bin -- still, it bested Bissell and Drecell.Despite emptying the bin four times, the heavy-duty combination test showed that Fanttik can handle a lot of debris. It left noticeable specks of dirt and sand behind while hardly affecting the stained portion of the mat. It had a great final result in our powder tests, only losing points because I had to empty the tiny dust cup and clean the filter five times.The Fanttik Slim V8 Apex uniquely comes with blower nozzles, which attach to the vacuum's exhaust port. You can use these to blow dust off the dashboard or even inflate air mattresses. The blower was great for touching up hard surfaces during the powder test.I'm the first to admit my skepticism of ultracompact car vacuums like Fanttik but I'd totally keep one around for light-duty jobs. It could even be a trusty sidekick for rideshare drivers to touch up their cars multiple times a day.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
38 minutes and 54 seconds
Runtime (as tested)Bin capacity
120 mlAttachments included
Crevice tool, dusting brush, pet hair brush, hard rubber brush, soft rubber brush, flexible hose, short blow nozzle, long blow nozzle, multi-function blow nozzle, blow nozzle brushPrice
$100Weight
1.1 lbs
Add to compareOther car vacuums we tested
Black & Decker Dustbuster Pivot: We started strong with the Dustbuster Pivot's excellent cleaning performance, including one of the best results in our heavy-duty combination test. It's also very comfortable to hold, and the adjustable angle of the nozzle helps when cleaning in a cramped car. It barely matched half of its rated battery life in our tests -- a measly 10 minutes, 24 seconds. Poor battery life was a consistent thread in negative customer reviews, and we were disappointed that it happened to our test unit. It would be a good alternative to the Worx if not for the battery issues.DeWalt 20-volt Max: This is the most powerful cordless hand vacuum in our comparison -- it consistently earned high marks in all of our cleaning tests. The massive HEPA filter is nearly impossible to clog with dust and powder. It also comes with a veritable feast of attachments, including a hose that makes it easy to clean in tight spaces. Still, the DeWalt didn't make our top picks because the kit lacks a battery and charger. It's not overly expensive if you're already using DeWalt 20-volt Max batteries but you'll spend $85 or more to get it running otherwise. (It had the shortest battery life in our tests but we were using a 1.7-Ah battery instead of the more common 5-Ah unit.)Ryobi One Plus 18-volt Cordless Performance Hand Vacuum Kit: This handheld vacuum has a lot going for it: a large dustbin, powerful suction and a swappable battery that comes in the box. At $89, it's an affordable alternative to the pricey DeWalt 20-volt Max. It didn't match the DeWalt's performance and the attachments needed an adapter to attach to the nozzle. I didn't like how freely the brush attachment rotated so I had to hold it with my free hand to keep it in the correct position. Don't get me wrong: This is still a powerhouse with an impressive 89% average in cleaning performance. It's a solid option for most people, and the cheaper tool-only version is an easy win for existing Ryobi One Plus power tool users.Shark Cyclone Pet: The Shark Cyclone Pet's short 11-minute, 17-second battery life kept it from claiming our budget pick. Despite the short battery life, I like how quickly the vacuum charges, often finishing before the competition. It also had trouble with large grains of sand in the combination test, even after cleaning the filter and emptying the bin. It still outperformed the Dustbuster Blast with pet hair and large debris.Bissell Pet Hair Eraser: I had to see if a motorized brush and good battery were worth the $72 price tag. To its credit, it does very well with pet hair and the battery life was excellent. It was also fairly average in the combination and powder tests. It suffers from the smallest nozzle on this list, leading to "clog city" when sucking up large debris -- even the Drecell did better in this test. It's easily the best car vacuum for pet hair removal that you can buy for less than $100.Drecell Handheld Vacuum: The relatively high customer rating and low price were intriguing, but this product had the worst cleaning performance by a wide margin. Still, despite a microscopic bin, it clogged slightly less often than the Fanttik on the combination and powder tests. The one bright spot is the nearly 28-minute battery life, which might make it practical for picking up some crumbs after eating in the car or light-duty dusting in an office setting. It's a perfect case study for why Amazon bestsellers aren't always worth the money.Shark MessMaster Portable Wet/Dry Vacuum (control): Only after this product arrived did I notice it was a corded vacuum, which gave it a distinct advantage over the other products. To turn this error into lemonade, I gave it the role of control, the baseline to which the cordless products would compare. As I suspected, the extra power and huge dustbin yielded the best cleaning performance in our comparison. Although I disqualified it from our top picks, the Shark MessMaster gets an honorable mention as a great option to keep in the garage, where a 20-foot power cord won't hamper its portability. What's more impressive is that our top two picks, the Worx and Dyson, can stand toe-to-toe with such a monster.Car vacuums compared
Battery lifeWeightBin capacityMax noise levelMax airflowTypePrice Worx 20V Cube Vac 21.4 minutes3.0 lbs207 ml89.1 dBa9.3 CFMHandheld$98Dyson V8 36.9 minutes5.58 lbs530 ml88.3 dBa16.3 CFMStick$329Black & Decker Dustbuster Blast 16.6 minutes2.4 lbs290 ml110.1 dBa12.3 CFMHandheld$40Fanttik Slim V8 Apex 38.9 minutes1.1 lbs120 ml89.0 dBa7.7 CFMCompact$100Black & Decker Dustbuster Pivot 10.4 minutes3.0 lbs444 ml111.1 dBa14.6 CFMHandheld$76DeWalt 20-Volt Max 7.4 minutes3.3 lbs700 ml110.3 dBa17.4 CFMHandheld$99*Ryobi One+ 14.1 minutes2.3 lbs662 ml110.5 dba13.0 CFMHandheld$89Shark Cyclone Pet 11.3 minutes1.5 lbs500 ml83.7 dBa10.1 CFMHandheld$50Bissell Pet Hair Eraser 20.9 minutes3.0 lbs700 ml87.4 dBa10.8 CFMHandheld$72Drecell Handheld Vacuum 27.9 minutes1.2 lbs95 ml88.7 dBa7.5 CFMCompact$36Shark MessMaster (Control) Corded9.8 lbs1,893 ml112.1 dBa17.4 CFMShop$100
How we tested car vacuums
My cat assisted with breaks in car vacuum testing. John Carlsen/CNETVery few vacuums from top brands are marketed exclusively as car vacuums, which gave me the flexibility to test hand vacuums from household and power-tool brands. I researched reviews and bestseller lists to find suitable test candidates. The vacuums in this review are a mix of manufacturer samples and ones purchased at retail.After choosing a testing lineup, I subjected the vacuums to a battery of tests covering cleaning performance, runtime, noise and airflow.Cleaning performance
I put each vacuum through four tests to see how well it can clean in a typical car: pet hair, large debris, combination and powder. John Carlsen/CNETThe base conditions for the first three tests are as follows:Scatter a premeasured amount of debris over a 6-inch linear section of a car mat.Rub debris into the mat -- crushing some of it where possible -- to ensure good adhesion and simulate foot traffic.Start testing using the recommended attachments to see their effectiveness. If the attachment isn't good enough, use any means necessary to remove the remaining debris.I emptied the bin and knocked the dust off the filters between each test, but I didn't wash the filter until all tests were complete. This is fortunate beause the average washable filter took almost two days to dry completely.Pet hair and lint test
This was also the first of many tests failed by Drecell; it was the only product to clog with the modest amount of lint and hair involved. John Carlsen/CNETFor this light-duty test, I enlisted the help of my cat by saving 25 grams of pet-hair-laden dryer lint over two months, which I distributed among the vacuums. Each vacuum started with a pet brush and almost every traditional brush wasn't good enough to pull up all the hair. I got better results without any attachments, although the motorized brushes of Dyson and Bissell showed noticeable improvements over the standard pet brush.Still, the best pet hair cleaning performance came from attachments with rubber or silicone elements, notably Fanttik and Worx.Large debris test: Paper scraps and sticky cereal
Drecell and Bissell immediately failed this test because of debris clogging their narrow nozzles. John Carlsen/CNETThis medium-duty test started with 5g each of shredded paper packing material and a sticky cereal. The crinkled paper scraps provided an excellent source of bulk and clog potential. For my solid debris, I chose the one-two punch of a sticky cereal. I lightly sprayed each mat with some water to enhance the stickiness and left it for an hour to dry.The Shark MessMaster and Worx passed this test with the fewest crumbs remaining. The Shark Cyclone Pet, Dyson and Ryobi showed slightly more crumbs but were more than adequate.The DeWalt and Black & Decker models technically passed this test by pulling up all of the debris with few remaining crumbs, they clogged in the process and were a pain to unclog. The culprits on the DeWalt and Black & Decker were the air intakes, which were so close to the HEPA filters that there wasn't enough room for debris to enter the rest of the dust bin. Fanttik surprised me by pulling up 70% of the items before clogging. Combination test: Rocks, dirt and hair
My other tests focus on separate elements that can trip up a vacuum, but the heavy-duty combination test brings everything together to push a vacuum to its limits. John Carlsen/CNETThe material in this test is at least 150 grams of authentic dirt, sand and rocks, courtesy of a broom, a dustpan and some nearby parking spaces. Add to that a dusty dollop of pet hair that I saved from my main vacuum cleaner, and you have what I like to call "the disgusting test."As with my large debris test, I added a little water to the mats after pouring out the premeasured bags of dirt and grime and waited 24 hours for the mats to dry. This created delicious stains on the mats that proved especially difficult to remove. The Dyson and Shark MessMaster were the only vacuums that even got close to removing the stain, with Dyson showing the strongest result thanks to its motorized brush attachments. The Worx and Black & Decker Pivot weren't far behind but still left visible stains.The DeWalt and Bissell managed to pull up most of the debris without clogging or needing to be emptied, although the mats weren't as clean as the top three.I had to empty the Ryobi, Shark Cyclone Pet and both Black & Decker models once after losing a lot of suction during the first cleaning pass. Even with an empty dustbin, the Ryobi struggled to pick up the remaining hair and the Shark Cyclone Pet left quite a mess behind.The small dust bins on the Fanttik and Drecell produced the worst results, with almost no change to the oil stain and a fair amount of remaining debris.Powder test: Baking soda
I scattered baking soda on the seat, floor and hard surfaces for the full experience, making a special effort to dirty the crevices and edges in the vehicle. John Carlsen/CNETThe medium-duty powder test was the only test I did in my car because I knew it would be one of the most stubborn materials -- at least baking soda has some cleaning properties, unlike the other debris I used. Crucially, baking soda is very likely to clog the filters in a vacuum, something it managed to do on almost every test sample. This test helped me gauge not only cleaning performance but also the maneuverability of each unit.The Shark MessMaster, Dyson and Worx had the best results in the powder test, although even these required a fair amount of effort. Most of the other vacuums left visible streaks where they couldn't remove the powder, although they picked up most of it. The Drecell produced a poor final result, while the Dustbuster Blast's filter allowed more powder out of its exhaust ports than its rivals.Car cleaning performance test results
Overall averagePet hair and lintLarge debrisCombinationPowder Shark MessMaster (control) 98%96%100%96%100%Worx 20V Cube Vac 97%100%100%92%96%Dyson V8 96%100%92%96%96%Black & Decker Dustbuster Pivot 93%92%92%96%92%DeWalt 20-Volt Max 92%92%92%92%92%Ryobi One+ 89%88%92%84%92%Black & Decker Dustbuster Blast 87%96%92%88%72%Shark Cyclone Pet 86%96%96%68%84%Bissell Pet Hair Eraser 80%96%52%88%84%Fanttik Slim V8 Apex 75%96%64%72%84%Drecell Handheld Vacuum 55%52%52%60%56%
Best car vacuums battery length tested
I appreciate that most products came close to their specified battery lives, but percentages only tell half the story. In reality, the actual time elapsed is more practical. John Carlsen/CNETBattery life and dust bin capacity are the biggest technical limitations of car vacuums. You can solve dust cup capacity by keeping a garbage bag nearby, but it's not always practical, so I noted when this might affect performance.This test focused on battery life by filming when each cordless vacuum shuts off. I taped yellow yarn near the exhaust ports of each vacuum for easy visibility and tested all of the vacuums at once. If a vacuum had two-speed settings, I chose the lower one.The Bissell, Shark Cyclone Pet, Dustbuster Blast and DeWalt all came in above their specified battery life. Most other brands were less than 10% off, which I consider a successful test. Worx showed a 15% drop in battery life, but it's still impressive. The only cordless vacuum that didn't match its manufacturer-listed battery life was the Black & Decker Pivot, which lasted about 10 minutes, half as long as the company's estimate.The Dyson and Bissell had the most practical combo of battery life and bin capacity -- Worx came in third. All three products lasted more than 20 minutes, with Dyson lasting almost 37 minutes. Fanttik produced the best overall battery life -- almost 39 minutes -- but its small dust cup adds an element of inconvenience. Likewise, Drecell's impressive 28-minute result faces the same dust bin restrictions.The DeWalt's tested battery life was just over 7 minutes, but you can swap the 1.7-Ah battery we used for one with 5.0-Ah to hit roughly 20 minutes of vacuuming. The Ryobi and Dustbuster Blast's batteries ran for about 15 minutes, which I consider the bare minimum for practicality.The Shark Cyclone Pet outperformed its 10-minute battery life by more than a minute, but it's less suitable for deep cleaning than touch-ups. The same applies to the Black & Decker Pivot. Testing the noise levels of car vacuums
I used a sound meter to measure each vacuum's loudness in decibels (dBa). John Carlsen/CNETI used a sound meter to measure each vacuum's loudness in decibels.I chose a distance of 0.5 meters (19.7 inches) because it's where most people will use these products relative to their ears. Manufacturers usually test noise levels at 1 meter -- beyond arm's reach. Although this test started with the car vacuums idling on a table, it's not representative of a vacuum in use. Fortunately, that's easy to simulate by blocking the intake nozzle with one of the car mats from the cleaning tests. I learned two takeaways from this stress test: hearing protection considerations and automatic shutoff availability.The results show that all of the vacuums come close to or exceed 85 dBa when in use. This is the threshold at which government organizations like the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Occupational Safety and Health Administration recommend hearing protection. Even sound levels over 70 dBa can damage hearing with enough exposure time. Furthermore, five of the vacuums I tested peaked above 110 dBa, which makes hearing protection even more essential. I recommend investing in safety earmuffs to keep with your vacuum.A side effect of this test was the revelation that the Dyson, Fanttik and Drecell have automatic shutoff features when encountering blockages. The Dyson's shutoff is almost immediate, while the other two vacuums take 5 to 10 seconds to turn off. I like how this feature helps reduce exposure to overly loud vacuum noises while protecting the motor from overheating.Airflow
I measured each vacuum's airflow with an anemometer and custom nozzle adapters. John Carlsen/CNETThere are many ways to test a car vacuum cleaner's suction, most of which require specialized equipment. I kept things simple by measuring each car vacuum's airflow with an anemometer and custom nozzle adapters for a reasonably airtight seal. To put each nozzle on level footing, I made a flat piece of foam and cardboard with a 1-square-inch hole that went over the anemometer's intake and calculated the flow rate in cubic feet per minute.I'm the first to admit that the most surprising thing this test revealed is that low airflow doesn't always mean poor cleaning performance. For example, the Worx Cube Vac (9.3 CFM) consistently matched or out-cleaned vacuums with higher airflow. Still, most of the top performers produced airflow over 13 CFM. In terms of raw power, the Shark MessMaster and DeWalt tied for most airflow at 17.4 CFM, but I'll give the win to Shark for its strong suction breaking two of the blades off my anemometer. (The anemometer maintained accuracy after a quick retest on a few vacuums.)The two lowest performers in the cleaning tests moved the least air -- the Drecell (7.5 CFM) and Fanttik (7.7 CFM) -- suggesting that 9 CFM is probably the minimum level of airflow for achieving passable cleaning results.  Car vacuum buying guide: Things to consider
There are some considerations to make before settling on a car vacuum. John Carlsen/CNETIn addition to the cleaning performance, runtime and noise levels discussed above, you should consider the cost, attachments and portability of a car vacuum cleaner.CostThe price threshold for good handheld car vacuums is about $50 or higher, although the top performers on this list generally cost between $90 and $350. Fortunately, you can use these vacuums around the house, so it's easier to justify the expense if you're not keeping them in the car.Attachments
Attachments come in all shapes and materials. John Carlsen/CNETOnly two vacuum attachments are essential to a car vacuum: a crevice tool and a brush. The crevice nozzle makes it easier to clean between seat cushions, along edges and in tight spaces. A brush is ideal for cleaning debris from hard surfaces like the dashboard and often helps pick up pet hair. If you need to pick up a lot of pet hair, I recommend attachments with silicone tips or motorized brushes.Beyond brush and crevice tools, you might encounter wide nozzles, extension wands, pet hair brushes, detailing kits and powered brush tools. Many handheld vacuums don't include these tools, so they'll cost extra.Portability
Consider the portability of your car vacuum before buying. John Carlsen/CNETUnless you plan to store the vacuum in your trunk, the main portability consideration is whether the vacuum is small enough to maneuver between the seats in your car. Based on my experience with these vacuums, anything stiff that adds to the length of a car handheld vacuum cleaner will reduce its maneuverability while cleaning.A hose attachment helps immensely, especially when using crevice tools, but don't be afraid to use the bare nozzle on a vacuum. About half of the car vacuums I tested include hoses, which are easier to use because you don't need to move the entire vacuum. I found the hose especially helpful on the DeWalt, which is heavier than most. Without a hose, it can be uncomfortable to hold vacuums over 3 pounds.Although 12-volt wired car vacuums that plug into your cigarette lighter can provide additional suction, the power cord limits your maneuverability. Although the Shark MessMaster's 20-foot cord plugs into a wall outlet, you'll have trouble reaching any car that's not close to an outlet. (I had to run a very long extension cord to power the vacuum to use it in my car.) Best car vacuum FAQs
How often should I vacuum my car?
The common consensus for car vacuuming is doing it at least once a month to keep dust and grime from building up. Still, it ultimately comes down to your preferences and how dirty you'll allow the car interior to get. For example, you may choose to vacuum at least once a day if you work as a rideshare driver or every few months if you rarely drive. Similarly, you might vacuum your car after vacations or each time you wash it.
Show more
Can I power a vacuum with my cigarette lighter?
Technically yes -- but I wouldn't recommend the cheap ones you see on Amazon. Wired car vacuums using a 12-volt DC cigarette lighter often need the engine to be on and their power is limited by your car. You can buy 12-volt wired models from premium brands like MetroVac, most of the battery-powered products we tested are more affordable and offer excellent performance. USB-C charging means Shark Cyclone Pet and Fanttik Slim V8 Apex share all of the in-car benefits of 12-volt DC but are more maneuverable and portable.
Show more
What kind of vacuum do car detailers use?
Based on my research, vacuums with swappable batteries, usually made by power tool companies like Ryobi, DeWalt and Worx, are very popular among car detailers. Each brand generally sells various handheld and wet/dry shop vacuum models. Swappable batteries make it easy to keep working while powering other tools of the trade like scrubbers, polishers and even some pressure washers.It's common to see auto detailers using plug-in AC-powered shop vacs, canister vacuums and car extractors, which have greater dust bin capacity and increased power than the models in this review.
Show more
What about other vacuum cleaners?
CNET has also tested vacuums for other parts of your home, including home vacuum cleaners and robot vacuums. The right tool makes it easy to get your carpets, floors and furnishings clean and help them stay that way.
Show more
What do detailing brushes do when vacuuming your car?
When you use a detailing brush before or during your car vacuuming, it helps to break up the dust and debris from hard-to-reach areas or especially built-up areas. The specific car detailing brushes are made with bristles designed not to scratch up your vehicle.
Show more
About the Author
John Carlsen
John Carlsen
John Carlsen has more than a decade of experience testing and reviewing home tech products, with a major focus on smart home security. He earned his BS in journalism from Utah Valley University. In addition to his CNET contributions, John has written for Android Police, TWICE, Home Theater Review, SafeWise, ASecureLife and Top Ten Reviews.
Read full bio
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.