Best Greek Islands to Visit + Places to Skip, From Frequent Traveler - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Travel
I've been to 27 Greek islands. There are 3 I'd return to in a heartbeat — and 2 I'd leave off my itinerary next time.
By
Hannah Logan
After traveling to 27 Greek islands, there are some I'd visit again and others I'd skip next time.
Hannah Logan
2025-09-19T12:57:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
As someone who's visited 27 Greek islands, I have a few favorites — and some I wouldn't return to.
Symi is great for escaping the crowds, and Skiathos offers a bustling nightlife scene.
In my opinion, Mykonos is overhyped, and Kos didn't feel special.
As a full-time travel writer and content creator, I'm eager to explore as much of the world as possible. I often prioritize visiting new destinations, but when it comes to Greece, I keep going back.I adore the country, and over the last five years, I've visited 27 islands — some of them multiple times. However, a few just didn't capture my heart in the same way.
Here are three Greek islands I'd return to and two I'd skip in the future.
I love visiting the unique beaches on Milos.
Some swim spots in Milos are only accessible by boat.
Hannah Logan
In my opinion, Milos has some of the most stunning beaches in Greece.One of the most well-known spots is Sarakiniko Beach, which is famous for its lunar landscape — a series of smooth, white, volcanic rock formations that resemble the surface of the moon.I recommend renting a car to explore Milos by land, but don't skip a boat trip around the island as well — some of the best swim spots are only accessible from the water.Several tiny fishing villages also add a unique factor to this island. In some of them, traditional boathouses have been renovated into cozy, waterfront villas and hotels. I recommend booking one for a truly immersive experience.
Symi is the perfect place to relax.
Symi has a laid-back vibe.
Hannah Logan
Symi is easily one of my favorite Greek Islands because it feels more lowkey than some of the more famous spots like Mykonos or Santorini.For stunning views overlooking the bay, I recommend hiking up the Kali Strata's hundreds of stairs. I also suggest joining a full-day boat trip with Poseidon cruises or hopping on a water taxi to visit one of the nearby beaches.
Skiathos has a little bit of everything.
Parts of "Mamma Mia!" were filmed on Skiathos.
Hannah Logan
Skiathos is a charming island filled with great local shops and some of the best Greek food I've had during my travels. It also has a lively nightlife scene, with plenty of bars and clubs that stay open late.During the day, you can hop on a boat or a bus to explore the many beaches in the area. In the evening, I recommend taking advantage of lengthy happy hours at the many cocktail bars offering sunset views.If you love "Mamma Mia," Open Air Cinema hosts special screenings of the movie — after all, parts of it were filmed on the island. I recommend grabbing tickets early because they sell out quickly.
However, in my opinion, Mykonos is overhyped.
I'd prefer a day trip to Mykonos over a long stay.
Hannah Logan
Mykonos is known for its upscale beach clubs, lively bars, and cute old town. It delivers on all of these fronts, but in my opinion, it does so at a cost.It's known as one of the pricier Greek islands to visit, and although I enjoyed my time there, it's not somewhere I feel the need to go back to.Instead, I recommend taking a multi-day Greek Island sailing trip that stops in Mykonos. That way, you can see it and experience some of the hype, but you don't have to stay for more than one night.
I probably wouldn't return to Kos because it didn't feel special to me.
Kos felt underwhelming compared to other islands I've been to.
George Papapostolou photographer/Getty Images
Going into my trip, I knew that Kos was more touristy than other islands I've visited. However, although it's beautiful, I ultimately found it to be underwhelming. Instead of unique gifts, I found that most of the old town was filled with typical tourist shops. The beaches were OK, but also seemed less picturesque compared to those I've visited on other islands.
Since Kos has an international airport, I think it's best suited as a starting point for reaching other destinations.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account