U.S. Senator accuses Microsoft of “gross cybersecurity negligence”
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
FBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce data
New VoidProxy phishing service targets Microsoft 365, Google accounts
Save 60% on a refurbished Apple’s 2021 MacBook Pro M1
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityU.S. Senator accuses Microsoft of “gross cybersecurity negligence”
U.S. Senator accuses Microsoft of “gross cybersecurity negligence”
By Bill Toulas
September 11, 2025
03:23 PM
5
U.S. Senator Ron Wyden has sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requesting the agency to investigate Microsoft for failing to provide adequate security in its products, which led to ransomware attacks against healthcare organizations.
The Senator started the formal asking by saying that Microsoft should be held "responsible for its gross cybersecurity negligence, resulting in ransomware attacks against critical infrastructure, including U.S. health care organizations."
The Senator highlights Microsoft’s prolonged failure to take decisive action to effectively mitigate well-documented security risks in its products, resulting in attacks such as the 2024 Ascension Health ransomware breach, which compromised data of 5.6 million patients.
The incident, which occurred in May 2024, unfolded when a contractor clicked a malicious Bing Search result in Microsoft Edge, allowing hackers to carry out a “Kerberoasting” attack.
Kerberos is a network authentication protocol that gives users and services access to network resources by verifying their identity without a password exchange.
Kerberoasting is a post-compromise technique that lets attackers steal encrypted service account credentials from Microsoft Active Directory.
It takes advantage of weak or easy-to-guess passwords, sometimes encrypted with the insecure and deprecated RC4 algorithm, that can be decrypted with readily available brute-force tools.
After decrypting the password, the attacker can use it to escalate privileges and move laterally on the compromised network, as in the case of the Ascension Health breach.
The Senator says his team spoke with Microsoft in July 2024, urging the tech giant to warn customers of the dangers of using RC4 instead of more robust options like AES 128/256, and to make the latter the default setting.
Microsoft responded with a blog post published in October, which the Senator said was highly technical and failed to clearly convey the warning to decision-makers within companies.
The RC4 encryption algorithm is still an option in Kerberos, despite being a weak cipher with vulnerabilities that allow recovering plaintext information.
It is worth noting that Microsoft pledged to strengthen security in its products. RC4 continues to be present in Kerberos to suport older systems that do not accept newer, safer algorithms.
Wyden explicitly frames Microsoft’s practices as a serious national security risk, expressing certainty that more high-impact incidents will occur unless the FTC intervenes.
“Without timely action, Microsoft’s culture of negligent cybersecurity, combined with its de facto monopolization of the enterprise operating system market, poses a serious national security threat and makes additional hacks inevitable” - Senator Ron Wyden
BleepingComputer has contacted Microsoft with a request for a comment on this development, and a spokesperson sent us the following statement:
"RC4 is an old standard, and we discourage its use both in how we engineer our software and in our documentation to customers – which is why it makes up less than .1% of our traffic. However, disabling its use completely would break many customer systems."
The company is actively working to gradually remove the algorithm without creating any disruption to customers, and is warning against it as well as providing advice for using the algorithm "in the safest ways possible."
"We have it on our roadmap to ultimately disable its use. We’ve engaged with the Senator’s office on this issue and will continue to listen and answer questions from them or others in government,"  a Microsoft spokesperson told BleepingComputer.
The FTC has not publicly responded to Wyden’s request yet.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
How to harden your Active Directory against KerberoastingMicrosoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 daysWindows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 daysMicrosoft fixes Exchange Online outage affecting users worldwideMicrosoft waives fees for Windows devs publishing to Microsoft Store
FTC
Kerberoasting
Kerberos
Microsoft
Ron Wyden
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
tverweij
-
2 days ago
Go, Ron, go!
Make 'm pay for known holes they didn't plug.
NoneRain
-
2 days ago
Totally agree — but let’s be honest, you don’t get better security without breaking a few things. People already freaked out when MS pushed TPM 2.0 and Secure Boot. If they start ditching stuff that’s considered outdated or insecure, it’s gonna be a riot.
I`m not ignoring stuff that can be improved without affecting users too much, but, neither software companies or the general public want some changes that would change how their use their system.
powerspork
-
2 days ago
They break a few things every month with Windows update. This would just be a drop in the bucket. The reason everyone freaked out about the Windows 11 requirements is they were completely opaque in reasoning and cut off hardware that many people did not consider to be very old. Even worse, they actively killed workaround solutions. This problem is different because these protocols were deprecated decades ago. (I would hope) Nobody wrote a system requiring RC4 in at least 20 years.
Leaving ancient tech in place to accommodate 5% or less of the market at the expense of the 95% just makes no sense. Obsolete tech should be opt-in only, and modern OSes should reject it by default, like with SMBv1. It should break things that rely on obsolete protocols, and admins should be forced to actually address the issues underneath. This is what will make security actually happen.
tverweij
-
1 day ago
I'd rather have things broken because of increased security than that everything breaks because of a hack ...
LanSweep
-
2 days ago
Well, the 'senator' has stock holdings in Apple and NVIDIA. Not to mention 2 major pharma companies. Nice stunt though.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft fixes Exchange Online outage affecting users worldwide
New VMScape attack breaks guest-host isolation on AMD, Intel CPUs
Samsung patches actively exploited zero-day reported by WhatsApp
Sponsor Posts
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Spot Hidden Gaps with Action1’s Free Initial Vulnerability Assessment for Unlimited Endpoints
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
How to tell if your organization’s credentials have been exposed?
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT