How to use Live Translation on your AirPods - not just the newest ones | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
How to use Live Translation on your AirPods - not just the newest ones
With Live Translation in iOS 26, you can use your iPhone and AirPods to speak with someone speaking another language.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 5:28 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Lance Whitney / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET\Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysLive Translation needs iPhone 15 Pro or newer with iOS 26Works on AirPods Pro 2, AirPods 4, and Pro 3 with ANCEnglish, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish supported.My wife and I typically travel to another country once or twice a year. This past year, we visited Paris. Next year, we plan to visit Italy or Amsterdam. Though many people in other countries speak English, we do run into language barriers in certain situations. That's where we could use a back-and-forth translator. And that's what Apple now offers through its Live Translation feature.Introduced with iOS 26, the new Live Translation can translate another person's words into your own language and pipe them through your AirPods. If the other person also has the right AirPods and a compatible iPhone, you can both carry on a conversation hands-free. If not, your own words will appear on your iPhone and be translated into the other language for the other person to see and hear.
Also: The 2 biggest AI features that you should try on your iPhone 17 and AirPods ASAPFor now, Live Translation supports only English (UK and US), French, German, Portuguese, and Spanish. Later in the year, Apple will add support for Chinese (Mandarin, Simplified, and Traditional), Japanese, Korean, and Italian.
How to do live translations with AirPods What you'll need: First, you need a compatible iPhone -- one that supports Apple Intelligence since Live Translation is an AI-based skill. That means an iPhone 15 Pro or Pro Max, any iPhone 16, or any iPhone 17.  Second, your iPhone requires iOS 26 or higher. If you haven't already upgraded, head to Settings, select General, and then tap Software Update. Select iOS 26, and then tap the Update now button. Also:  AirPods Pro 3 fitness feature surprises triathlete tester - here's what he foundThird, you'll need the right AirPods. Though Apple may have given the impression that the new AirPods Pro 3 are required, you can also use Live Translation with the AirPods Pro 2, and the AirPods 4 with Active Noise Cancellation.
For our purposes, I'll also assume you've already paired your AirPods with your iPhone. If not, here's a quick guide that should get you started. With all the proper ingredients, how do you set up and use Live Translation? Let's give it a spin.
1. Enable Apple Intelligence
Since Live Translation is an AI-powered feature, Apple Intelligence needs to be enabled. To check, go to Settings, select Apple Intelligence & Siri, and then turn on the switch for Apple Intelligence if it's not already on.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
2. Download languages
Next, download the languages you want to use offline. For this, place the AirPods in your ears and connect them to your iPhone. Go to Settings and tap the name of your AirPods, which should be near the top of the screen. Also: This new AirPods Pro feature makes me question why I still wear an Apple WatchSwipe down the AirPods settings screen and tap the setting for Languages. Any languages already downloaded are listed at the top. Tap the down arrow for any other languages that you wish to use offline.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
3. Activate Live Translation
Now let's say you're about to have a conversation with someone speaking one of the supported languages. You have your AirPods in your ears and you want to use Live Translation. Apple offers a host of ways to activate it, so you can use any of the following methods:Also: AirPods Pro 3 vs. AirPods Pro 2: What to know before rushing to upgradeOpen the Apple Translate app on your phone and tap the Live icon at the bottom. Make sure the languages are set correctly, and then tap Start Translation.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETPress and hold the stems on both AirPods at the same time.
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETSay: "Siri, start Live Translation."
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETAdd the Translation control to Control Center. Swipe from the top right of your screen to launch Control Center, and then tap Translate.
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETSet up the Action button on an iPhone 15 Pro, iPhone 15 Pro Max, any iPhone 16, or any iPhone 17 to trigger Live Translation. Then, press the Action button to turn on Live Translation when you need it.
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
4. Listen on Your AirPods
As the other person speaks in their language, you'll start to hear their words translated into your language. Also: Intrigued by Live Translation? You may not have to buy new AirPods to access itAfter the translation is over, tap the entry for Live Translation on your phone and you'll see the original and translated words. You can then respond by speaking in your native language. Your words appear in your language and the other language. Assuming the other person isn't wearing compatible AirPods, you'll then need to tap the Play button next to your words to play them in the other language.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
5. Listen on both AirPods
If the other person has the right iPhone and AirPods, you can conduct your conversation without needing to hear or see the translation on an iPhone. For this, make sure you're both wearing your AirPods. Either person can trigger Live Translation. One person starts speaking, and the translated text should be heard in the AirPods of the other person. You can both then carry on a conversation by speaking in your language and hearing each other's words translated into your language through your respective AirPods. Also: These $15 accessories turned my AirPods into my ideal workout headphonesYou can also look at Live Translation on your iPhone to see the original and translated words.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETAs you use Live Translation, keep in mind that the feature is AI-based and therefore prone to the same problems as any AI. You may find that certain translated words or sentences aren't entirely accurate. The translated words also lag behind the original words, especially if the other person is speaking too quickly. In that case, you may need to ask them to slow down.  Also: Best AirPods 2025: I've tested every pair of Apple headphones and earbudsDespite the potential pitfalls, hopefully Live Translation will at least capture the gist of a conversation so that you and the other person can understand each other.
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
AirPods Pro 3 vs. AirPods Pro 2: What to know before rushing to upgrade
AirPods Pro 3 review: The ANC is so good I'm using these instead of AirPods Max on flights
Intrigued by Live Translation? You may not have to buy new AirPods to access it
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use