Green Beans with Pomegranate Seeds
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Green Beans with Shallots
Green Bean and Potato Salad
Southern Green Beans with Apricots
Roasted Green Beans with Lemon & Walnuts
Green Beans with Peppers
Apricot-Glazed Green Beans
Sweet and Sour Green Beans
Jalapeno Green Beans
Lemon-Sesame Green Beans
Thyme Green Beans with Almonds
Green Beans with Almonds
Garden Green Beans
Pomegranate-Glazed Green Beans
Green Beans with Herbs
Spiced Green Beans
Artichokes and Green Beans
Green Beans with Roasted Grape Tomatoes
Green Beans with Red Peppers
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Vegetables
Green Beans
Green Beans with Pomegranate Seeds
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep/Total Time: 30 min.
By
Abhigyaan Bararia
Recipe by Dalya rubin, boca raton, Florida
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 05, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This recipe for green beans with pomegranate seeds proves that even just five ingredients can create a rustic and versatile side dish.
Delicious dishes don’t necessarily need a mess of ingredients to shine. These green beans with pomegranate seeds are a testament to that fact, featuring just five ingredients to that work together to enhance the natural flavors of the fresh produce.
If you only know green beans from holiday casseroles, this recipe will open up a whole new world. Oven-roasted green beans stay vividly green, and the dry heat concentrates their subtle, earthy flavors, which are further enhanced by the pungency of minced garlic. In addition to bright pops of color, the pomegranate seeds add juiciness to counteract the crisp-tender beans, and their sweet-tart flavor contrasts splendidly with the earthiness of the dish.
The ruby-red seeds really pop on a bed of green, so guests will gravitate toward these vegetables with curiosity and delight. This simple dish is highly versatile, comfortable beside any meal and in any social setting.
Ingredients for Green Beans with Pomegranate Seeds
Fresh green beans
Olive oil
Kosher salt
Fresh garlic
Pomegranate seeds
Directions
Step 1: Cook the green beans
Preheat the oven to 425°F. Place the beans in a greased 15x10x1-inch baking pan. Drizzle them with the olive oil and sprinkle them with the salt, then toss to coat. Roast the beans for 10 minutes, stirring once.
Editor’s Tip: Add other seasonings at this stage, like onion powder, paprika or crushed red pepper flakes, if you like.
Step 2: Finish with the garlic and pomegranate
Add the garlic to the pan, then roast until the beans are crisp-tender, five to seven minutes longer. Sprinkle the green beans with the pomegranate seeds before serving.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
How to Store Green Beans with Pomegranate Seeds
Let any leftovers cool down completely, then transfer them to an airtight container and refrigerate them. They will keep for up to four days. Reheat the dish in a skillet over medium heat, or in the microwave until properly heated through.
Green Beans with Pomegranate Seeds Tips
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
What do I serve with green beans with pomegranate seeds?
You can pair this dish with a classic roast chicken, grilled steak or even baked salmon. Use it as a healthy side dish for your favorite pasta recipes, or make it to bolster an easy weeknight dinner.
How do I properly seed a pomegranate without making a mess?
Removing seeds from a pomegranate can be easily done with a knife and a bowl of water. Start by cutting the top part off the pomegranate, then quarter it. Keep the sections in a bowl of cold water for about five minutes. This helps tighten the membranes, making it easier to remove the seeds. After it rests, gently push out the seed clusters into the same water bowl to prevent any mess.
What other toppings can I add to green beans with pomegranate seeds?
Chopped toasted nuts will provide a welcoming crunch to this green bean dish. We suggest either almonds for their hints of bitterness, or pistachios for their earthiness. You could even sprinkle on candied pecans to add both texture and a little sweetness. Grated Parmesan or Grana Padano would be excellent additions too. Or crumble on some creamy goat cheese for added savoriness and a smooth texture.
Test Kitchen Approved
Green Beans with Pomegranate Seeds
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:8 servings
Prep:15 min
Cook:15 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 pounds fresh green beans, trimmed
2 tablespoons olive oil
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 garlic cloves, minced
1/4 cup pomegranate seeds
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 425°. Place beans in a greased 15x10x1-in. baking pan. Drizzle with oil; sprinkle with salt. Toss to coat. Roast 10 minutes, stirring once.
Add garlic to pan. Roast until beans are crisp-tender, 5-7 minutes longer. Sprinkle with pomegranate seeds.
Nutrition Facts
1
serving: 70 calories, 4g fat (1g saturated fat), 0 cholesterol, 187mg sodium, 9g carbohydrate (4g sugars, 4g fiber), 2g protein. Diabetic Exchanges:
1 vegetable, 1 fat.
Author
Abhigyaan Bararia
As Taste of Home's food writer, Abhigyaan writes the many step-by-step guides that walk readers through how to make recipes from start to finish. Before joining the team, Abhigyaan worked as a writer and social media manager at TasteToronto, a food media and events company.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
These green beans with pomegranate seeds are one of the simplest dishes to make. I made them for Rosh Hashanah this year and they were a hit. Nobody believed there were just 5 ingredients! —Dalya Rubin, Boca Raton, Florida
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box