The best iPhone 17 accessories you should buy if you're planning to upgrade | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
The best iPhone 17 accessories you should buy if you're planning to upgrade
Apple just launched four new iPhones. Here are the accessories I'd scoop up to pair with a new iPhone 17.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 10, 2025 at 6:54 a.m. PT
Anker Nano Portable Charger with Foldable USB-C | for $21 (save $9)
Anker Nano Portable Charger with Foldable USB-C
for $21 (save $9)
View now View at Amazon Baseus Enercore CJ11 67W Charger | for $45 (save $15)
Baseus Enercore CJ11 67W Charger
for $45 (save $15)
View now View at Amazon Casely iPhone 17 Series Cases | Starting at $30
Casely iPhone 17 Series Cases
Starting at $30
View now View at Casely Torras Slim MiniMag Wireless Charger | for $39 (save $21)
Torras Slim MiniMag Wireless Charger
for $39 (save $21)
View now View at Amazon Statik SmartCharge 5-in-1 Travel Charger | for $70
Statik SmartCharge 5-in-1 Travel Charger
for $70
View now View at Amazon
Moft MagSafe Snap Phone Tripod Stand | for $40
Moft MagSafe Snap Phone Tripod Stand
for $40
View now View at Amazon Anker MagGo 3-1 Wireless Charging Station | for $83 (save $27)
Anker MagGo 3-1 Wireless Charging Station
for $83 (save $27)
View now View at Amazon
Show more (2 items)
It's almost fall, y'all. And you know what that means: pumpkin spice lattes, seasonal activities, leaves changing, and Apple (iPhone) picking. That's right. Apple just unveiled the latest lineup of its flagship smartphones, launching four new models, including an uber-thin iPhone 17 Air. Also: Apple Event live updates 2025: iPhone 17, AirPods 3, Apple Watch Series 11, and more newsIf you're planning on buying one of the newest iPhone 17 series smartphones, now is the perfect time to grab a few nifty accessories to pair with your perfect mobile pick. Preorders for the new devices are underway, but all these accessory options are available now. Luckily, I test mobile accessories, like MagSafe battery packs, MagSafe wallets, and MagSafe gear, all year round, including dozens of options fit for iPhones, new and old. Here are my favorite products that I'd recommend pairing with the new iPhone 17 lineup -- some of which are on sale. For more on-site coverage of Apple's iPhone 17 event, check out our sibling sites' live blogs at CNET, PCMag, Mashable, and Lifehacker.Shop iPhone at Amazon
Anker Nano Portable Charger with Foldable USB-C for $21 (save $9)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
This tiny Anker charger is compact and portable, comes in several fun colors, and is great for topping off your phone when you're on the go. It's available with Lightning or USB-C connectors, and is often on sale (like it is now). Its 5,000 mAh battery capacity is excellent for shorter outings, and I love this design so much that I always carry a Nano power bank in my everyday bag. Also: You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and moreZDNET editor Sabrina Ortiz also said she loves this teeny power bank for powering up her phone when she needs it most. Amazon customers said that they like the Nano power bank's small form factor, lightweight design, and handy, wire-free charging. Other customers said they did not like that it only charges their phone for about one hour, but remember that most 5,000 mAh capacity power banks aren't designed to recharge your device several times. If you need more power, consider a larger MagSafe battery or power bank.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Baseus Enercore CJ11 67W Charger for $45 (save $15)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
If you need an all-in-one charger for at home or on the go, you can't beat Baseus' EnerCore CJ11 GaN lineup. With a 45W, 67W, or a 67W with two retractable USB-C cables option to choose from, I highly recommend them as grab-and-go essentials, especially for their ability to power up different devices simultaneously. This is a great match for the new iPhone 17 series, especially if you're on the go. Also: This 3-in-1 charger has a retractable superpower that's a must for travel
Show more
View now at Amazon
Casely iPhone 17 Series Cases Starting at $30
Casely/ZDNET
Obviously, a new phone means a new case. Some of my favorite affordable yet fun cases are from Casely. There are tons of designs to choose from, and Casely has the entire iPhone 17 series lineup covered. Casely also offers different case models for different levels of protection, and there is MagSafe compatibility -- a must for any iPhone user. Also: The best iPhone 17 series cases
Show more
View now at Casely
Torras Slim MiniMag Wireless Charger for $39 (save $21)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
This Torras MiniMag Battery Pack is still the thinnest wireless charger I've tested, and I've had the chance to review a lot of them. It has no kickstand or added features, but its 5,000mAh capacity is comparable to other packs I've tested. If you're buying a battery pack for the first time, I recommend this one over anything else. Thanks to its slim profile, you'll be able to use it in more situations than not, and if you spend around $50 on a battery anyway, it might as well be multifunctional. The pack provides 18W USB-C charging or 7.5W wireless charging, too.Also: This ultra-thin battery pack I tested is a must-have travel gadget (and it works with MagSafe)I love this battery pack so much I bought two colors. Torras users on Amazon said that they liked the quick charging speed, lightweight profile, and slim design of the Torras MiniMag battery pack. However, some said the battery gets too hot. Keep in mind that most battery packs do experience warming with use.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Statik SmartCharge 5-in-1 Travel Charger for $70
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
A travel charger is a must have for any new iPhone and I love this one from Statik. It comes with plenty of ports, built-in cables, a foldable wall prong, and a built-in MagSafe charger, making it truly one of the most functional all-in-one chargers I've used. Also: This 5-in-1 charger is the only one I'll need to travel (and it's full of power)
Show more
View now at Amazon
Moft MagSafe Snap Phone Tripod Stand for $40
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
The Moft MagSafe tripod and stand combine a sophisticated, sleek design with maximum functionality. I love the affordable yet luxurious look the Moft stand offers. I also find it convenient to take impromptu photos, work from my desk, and watch my favorite shows. You can also use this stand as a selfie-stick-like grip or bump it into a larger tripod (pictured), which is perfect for summer travels. The stand is not only a content creator's dream, but also works well for the everyday tech consumer (that's me, don't be fooled). It's been a great accessory for my walking desk and for following recipes in the kitchen. Newer versions of this stand from Moft also include a spot for up to two cards, so if you need card storage and a stand function, this accessory is for you.  Also: The best iPhone accessories of 2025Moft customers on Amazon said they liked the stand's fun colors, firm hold, and practical design. Some customers experienced slight wear issues due to the vegan leather construction, but like most products, you will see some wear with daily use.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker MagGo 3-1 Wireless Charging Station for $83 (save $27)
Anker
Anker's MagGo 3-in-1 Wireless Charging Station for iPhone is still a wireless charging dream months after my initial purchase, and it's also ZDNET's pick for best wireless charger. This MagSafe charger features 15W charging, offers a stand component for my iPhone, charges all my Apple devices simultaneously, and folds up easily for quick transport and storage. The charger also comes with a wall adapter, which isn't always guaranteed. Also: I found a Qi2 charging station that can do it all (and Apple users will love it)I first purchased this Anker charger after ZDNET's Sabrina Ortiz tested it last year. I was looking for a safe and functional 3-in-1 charger to reduce the number of cords I needed to pack while traveling. This device is the solution. Unveiled at CES 2023, this 3-in-1 is worth your money if you own an Apple Watch and a pair of AirPods and want a great charger at home and on the go. I also enjoy Anker's UFO version of this charger, but if you're only going to purchase one 3-in-1 charging setup, it should be this one. A stand configuration is preferable for daily nightstand use, and you don't need to buy both setups. Verified Amazon customers gave this Anker charger 4.6 out of 5 stars. They liked the compactness and convenience of the design, and the easy-to-use setup, foldability, and magnetic strength. However, some customers said the simultaneous charging wasn't consistent.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Why should you trust me?I test tech for a living. I have strong opinions on what makes a tech product worth your money, because I know that budgets are tight and there's no greater disappointment than wasting a paycheck on a middling device. I do my research, checking competing websites for the newest products, reading Reddit threads and Amazon reviews, speaking with researchers and analysts about what makes a particular device good or bad, and, when in doubt, testing everything out for myself. For this story, each primary pick is a product I've tested. If I included additional products of interest, I consulted and cited ZDNET's experts who have. I considered price, quality, and use cases for mobile gadgets, among other things, to curate this list. While there is plenty of different tech I could have recommended to you, these are some of the best mobile accessories I've tried that I wanted to share with you. What are the new iPhone models?Apple launched four new iPhones on Sept. 9, 2025. The new models are the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max. They open for preorder on Sept. 12 and will be available in stores Sept. 19, 2025. How much do the new iPhones cost?Here are the iPhone 17 starting prices, all of which come with a base storage of 256GB now:iPhone 17: $799iPhone Air: $999iPhone 17 Pro: $1,099iPhone 17 Pro Max: $1,199More mobile tech we think you'd like for the new iPhone 17 series
The best value USB-C cords Anker USB-C Charger 2-Pack This affordable USB-C cord bundle is essential if you're upgrading to a USB-C model iPhone.
View at Amazon
The best screen cleaning kit Koala Lens and Screen Cleaner Kit Keep your new iPhone sparkling with my favorite lens and screen cleaner.
View at Amazon
Best lens protector to match iPhone 17 Hoerrye iPhone 17 Pro/Pro Max Camera Lens Protector If you like some added protection for your phone camera, there's already options available, like these lens protectors from Hoerrye.
View at Amazon
Best iPhone 17 screen protector
UltraGlass iPhone 17 Series Screen Protector
Don't skimp on screen protection for your new iPhone.
View at Amazon
Best USB-C charger Anker Nano USB-C Wall Charger You can't go wrong scooping up USB-C chargers for new devices, and this tiny yet mighty 30W option from Anker is great.
View at Amazon
Best USB-C car charger Baseus PrimeTrip VR2 Max USB-C Car Charger Gadget expert Adrian Kingsley-Hughes says this is the ultimate car charger perfect for long roadtrips or errands alike.
View at Amazon
Best MagSafe accessory for content creators Casely Grippy Mount This grippy accessory is great for shooting photo or video solo thanks to strong suction.
View at Amazon
Best MagSafe wallet for minimalists Moft MagSafe Wallet and Stand This Moft wallet doubles as an iPhone stand and comes in tons of colors.
View at Amazon
Best MagSafe charging station Baseus Nomos 5-in-1 Charging Station This desktop charging station is my favorite WFH accessory. It has a MagSafe charger, built-in USB-C cable, and plenty of ports.
View at Amazon
Best MagSafe wallet
ESR Aura MagSafe Wallet and Stand The ESR Aura MagSafe wallet is my favorite iPhone companion, and I expect it to be perfect with the new iPhone 17.
View at Amazon
Best universal travel charger Baseus 70W Universal Travel Adapter This 6-in-1 universal adapter works in over 200 countries, and comes with a built-in USB-C cable and more.
View at Amazon ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
4 Apple products you should avoid buying this week (including these iPhone 17 models)
Should you upgrade to an iPhone 17 Pro from last year's model? I am - here's why
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use