OLED monitors are about to get affordable in 2026
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
3 signs OLED monitors will finally be affordable in 2026
By
Tanveer Singh
Published 4 days ago
After a 7-year corporate stint, Tanveer found his love for writing and tech too much to resist. An MBA in Marketing and the owner of a PC building business, he writes on PC hardware, technology, and Windows. When not scouring the web for ideas, he can be found building PCs, watching anime, or playing Smash Karts on his RTX 3080 (sigh).
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Ever since OLED panels arrived on gaming monitors, the community has been waiting for affordable models to finally enjoy "peak gaming," so to speak. From first-generation OLEDs priced well above $1,000 to recent offerings with $700–$800 price tags, OLED monitors are slowly but surely shedding their luxury image. We're now seeing tandem OLED monitors launching for around $500, with new OLED manufacturing technologies hinting toward even cheaper OLEDs next year.
New models are already launching for as low as $500
Including advanced 4th Gen WOLEDs
This year saw multiple hotly anticipated 4th Gen WOLED monitors make it to the market. While Asus debuted its XG27AQWMG for $700, Gigabyte announced the MO27Q28G for just $500. This brings 1440p 27" 280Hz WOLED monitors with primary RGB tandem OLED panels and a TrueBlack 500 rating to a price I don't recall having seen before. And remember, this is the launch price, so things will only get better from here. I'd recommend waiting for deals if you have your eye on one of these latest WOLED displays. Tandem OLED technology improves on the brightness of 3rd Gen WOLED models while improving the longevity, power efficiency, and color gamut coverage as well. This also makes these next-gen WOLEDs significantly more impressive than QD-OLED displays in most areas. The fact that we're seeing these models launch for as low as $500 should be great news for people waiting to upgrade from their IPS or VA panels. I reckon 2026 will see many more tandem OLED panels make it to the market, and the increased competition might even see prices fall to the $400–$450 range.
More panel manufacturers are entering the market
And bringing brighter and cheaper OLEDs with them
Credit: Source: Wikimedia Commons
OLED monitors still largely use panels from Samsung Display or LG Display, with the former using QD-OLED and the latter using WOLED technology. Both kinds of OLED panels have their pros and cons, with consumers choosing models based on their preferences, but we haven't seen any competition from other panel manufacturers in this space. Well, TCL is soon to enter the OLED monitor industry (and other markets) with its 8th Gen inkjet-printed (IJP) OLED panels. OLED displays using these panels promise better brightness, longevity, and energy efficiency compared to the existing models using fine metal mask (FMM) and open metal mask (OMM) OLED panels. TCL is planning, among other applications, a 27" 4K OLED panel to rival offerings from LG Display and Samsung Display. We could see a flurry of IJP OLED monitors enter the market soon, offering stiff competition to the current crop of QD-OLED and even WOLED monitors.
The pressure from Mini-LED displays is mounting
The budget market could still be the domain of Mini-LEDs
OLED monitors, as impressive as they are, still suffer from inferior full-screen brightness, poor text clarity, and extensive panel maintenance. Mini-LED monitors, on the other hand, overcome each of these drawbacks and offer an experience quite close to that of OLED displays. They have problems of their own, such as blooming around bright objects, inferior viewing angles, and subpar blacks as compared to OLED panels. Still, the affordability of Mini-LEDs is enough to sway price-conscious consumers away from OLED monitors (even the new $500 ones). The pressure from improved Mini-LED monitors will continue to force OLED manufacturers to find ways to cut costs and stay competitive. Despite OLED displays being premium products, they do need to evolve with the times and adjust to the growing demand for more affordable offerings.
Cooler Master Tempest GP27Q
The Cooler Master Tempest GP27Q is a relatively affordable 27-inch Mini-LED monitor with excellent AdobeRGB and DCI-P3 color reproduction. It has a 160Hz refresh rate, 1ms response time, and 576-zone local dimming to make your games look great, but it can also handle creative work.
$385 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
Exciting times ahead for PC gamers
Gamers who have always wanted to enjoy the superior image quality and contrast of OLED displays might finally have something to look forward to. With more affordable OLED monitors already being announced, and newer manufacturing techniques and Mini-LED displays forcing costs down, OLED monitors might finally land permanently in the $400–$500 segment. This will be a huge shift from the $800–$1200 range we're all accustomed to right now.
Monitors
OLED
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
5 must-use extensions for Raycast
6 days ago
Stop paying for useless marketing numbers attached to your PC peripherals
6 days ago
I built a pocket NAS with a Raspberry Pi and an NVMe drive
5 days ago
4 reasons why I regret overclocking my high-end Nvidia GPU
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Arm is the future of desktop computing, and the writing is on the wall for x86
5 "must-have" motherboard features most gamers don't even think about
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.