Constitution Day and Citizenship Day - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
Toggle History subsection
1.1
Origins
1.2
I Am an American Day
1.3
Louisville, Ohio – the Constitution Town
1.4
First U.S. Congressional designation of Citizenship Day
2
Reaffirmation
3
See also
4
References
5
Further reading
6
External links
Toggle External links subsection
6.1
Online lessons for K-12 teachers to use on Constitution Day
Toggle the table of contents
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day
3 languages
Français日本語Română
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
US holiday
Constitution Day and Citizenship DayNaturalization ceremony on September 17, 2015, in the Rotunda for the Charters of Freedom, National Archives Building, Washington, D.C.Observed byUnited StatesCelebrationsCommemorates the formation and signing on September 17, 1787, of the United States Constitution and recognizes all who, by coming of age or by naturalization, have become citizens.[1]DateSeptember 17FrequencyAnnualRelated toI Am an American DayConstitution Week
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day is an American federal observance that recognizes the adoption of the United States Constitution and those who have become U.S. citizens. It is normally observed on September 17, the day in 1787 that delegates to the Constitutional Convention signed the document in Philadelphia.[1] The United States Congress designated September 17 as Constitution Day and Citizenship Day on February 29, 1952, by joint resolution (36 U.S.C. 106).[2] It begins Constitution Week in the United States, which continues through September 23.
The law establishing the present holiday was modified in 2004 with the passage of an amendment by Senator Robert Byrd to the omnibus spending bill of 2004.[3] Before this law was enacted, the holiday was known as I Am an American Day and Citizenship Day and celebrated on the third Sunday in May. The amendment mandates that all publicly funded educational institutions, and all federal agencies, provide educational programming on the history of the American Constitution on that day.[4] In May 2005, the United States Department of Education announced the enactment of this law and that it would apply to any school receiving federal funds of any kind.[5]
When the event falls on a weekend or on another holiday, schools and other institutions observe Constitution Day and Citizenship Day on an adjacent weekday.[5]
History[edit]
Origins[edit]
Iowa schools first recognized Constitution Day in 1911.[6] In 1917, the Sons of the American Revolution formed a committee to promote Constitution Day.
The committee included members such as Calvin Coolidge, John D. Rockefeller, and General John Pershing.[6]
I Am an American Day[edit]
"I Am an American" was recorded by Gray Gordon and his Tic-Toc Rhythm and released on Bluebird Records in June 1940.
This day was inspired by Arthur Pine, the head of a public relations firm in New York City bearing his name. At the New York World's Fair, the composers of a new song titled "I Am an American" brought their manuscript to the attention of Pine, who handled publicity for the bandleader Gray Gordon. Pine had the song introduced on NBC, Mutual, and ABC radio, arranged for an "I Am an American Day" at the 1939 New York World's Fair, and had a local New York newspaper tie-in with "I Am an American Day" in the city. The promotion proved so successful that a newspaper chain promoted "I am an American Day" on a nationwide basis and had President Roosevelt name it as an official day.[7]
In 1940, Congress designated the third Sunday in May as I Am an American Day. The holiday was promoted through the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.[8] A 16-minute film, I Am an American, was featured in American theaters as a short feature.[9] In 1947 Hearst Newsreels featured the event on News of the Day.[10] By 1949, governors of all 48 states had issued Constitution Day proclamations.[6] On February 29, 1952, Congress moved the "I am an American Day" observation to September 17 and renamed it "Citizenship Day".[11][12]
Louisville, Ohio – the Constitution Town[edit]
Louisville, Ohio, calls itself "Constitution Town", and credits one of its own for getting the holiday national recognition. In 1952, resident Olga T. Weber petitioned municipal officials to establish Constitution Day, in honor of the creation of the US Constitution in 1787. Mayor Gerald A. Romary proclaimed September 17, 1952, as Constitution Day in the city. The following April, Weber requested that the Ohio General Assembly proclaim September 17 as statewide Constitution Day. Her request was signed into law by Governor Frank J. Lausche. In August 1953, she took her case to the United States Senate, which passed a resolution designating September 17–23 as Constitution Week. The Senate and House approved her request and it was signed into law by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. On April 15, 1957, the City Council of Louisville declared the city Constitution Town. The Ohio State Archaeological and Historical Society later donated four historical markers, located at the four main entrances to the city, explaining Louisville's role as originator of Constitution Day.[13]
First U.S. Congressional designation of Citizenship Day[edit]
Congressional Record H1941, Appendix to CR p. A1473
Mrs. A.B. (Clara) Vajda, a Hungarian immigrant to the United States, was recognized in the U.S. Congressional Record as the Founder of Citizenship Day on March 27, 1941.[14]
In his remarks, Rep. Wasielewski noted "...on May 3, 1940, the President of the United States approved a joint resolution of both Houses of Congress, setting aside the third Sunday of May of each year as Citizenship Day.
The purpose of this Act was to give recognition to all those who, by coming of age or naturalization, have attained the status of citizenship...I wonder how many people in this country really know the true story of the origin of this day.
I wonder how many people know that a simple act of charity of a foreign-born citizen was the motivating spark which has set in motion this movement to teach all citizens to appreciate the great honor and privilege which has been bestowed upon them when they assume their sovereign rights of citizenship."[citation needed]
Reaffirmation[edit]
President Donald Trump reaffirmed September 17, 2017, as Constitution Day and
Citizenship Day.[15][16][17]
See also[edit]
Constitution Week
Founding Fathers of the United States
Holidays of the United States
Constitution Day (other countries)
References[edit]
^ a b 36 U.S.C. § 106, Constitution Day and Citizenship Day
^ "A Proclamation on Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and Constitution Week, 2024". The White House. September 16, 2024. Retrieved September 22, 2024.
^ Krache, Donna (September 16, 2005). "Constitution Day ushers in mandate to teach the Constitution". CNN. Retrieved August 12, 2008.
^ Miscellaneous Appropriations and Offsets Act, 2005, Pub. L. 108–447 (text) (PDF), Division J, Title I, § 111, 118 Stat. 2809, 3345, enacted December 8, 2004.
^ a b "Notice of Implementation of Constitution Day and Citizenship Day on September 17 of Each Year". United States Department of Education. May 24, 2005. Retrieved March 13, 2021.
^ a b c Williams, Winston C., ed. (1991). Centennial History of the National Society of the Sons of the American Revolution 1889–1989. Paducah, KY: Turner Publishing Company. p. 9. ISBN 9781563110283. Retrieved January 15, 2011.
^ Pine, Martin (June 28, 1948). "'American Day' Origin" (PDF). Open Mike. Broadcasting: 16. ISSN 0007-2028.
^ See:
Harrington, Burritt C. (1944). Community Recognition of USA Citizenship: A Handbook for I am an American Day Committees. Washington, DC: Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service. OCLC 291344729.
Evans, Lillian (1944). "Talk on: 'I am an American Day'". New York: Pershing Square Information Center. LCCN 44-40824. OCLC 44675594.
Biddle, Francis (May 21, 1944). I am an American (Transcript). Cincinnati, OH: WLW [radio station]. p. 11. OCLC 44635911.
Morgan, Dennis (1944). I am an American. Warner Brothers. OCLC 79769249. Black and white film with Morgan speaking to an I am an American Day gathering.
Lest we forget. 8th series, Program no, 13, Our nation's shrines. Special program 1944, I am an American (Sound recording). New York: Institute of Oral and Visual Education; Federal Transcribed Programs. 1944. OCLC 317879010.
Also see: Farber, William O. (1942). 'I am an American Day' in South Dakota. Vermillion, SD: University of South Dakota. LCCN 83224435.
^ I Am an American was produced by Gordon Hollingshead, written and directed by Crane Wilbur, and featured Humphrey Bogart, Gary Gray, Gordon Hart, Dick Haymes, Danny Kaye, Joan Leslie, Mary Lee Moody, Dennis Morgan, Knute Rockne, and Jay Silverheels. See: I Am An American at the TCM Movie Database and I Am an American at IMDb .
^ "'I am an American' – nation hails new citizens!". News of the Day. Vol. 18, no. 274. OCLC 422967279.
^ Edwards, Anne (1987). Early Reagan: The Rise to Power. William Morrow and Company. p. 267. ISBN 9780688060503.
^ "The importance of Citizenship Day". Chicago Sun-Times. September 12, 2006. Archived from the original on May 15, 2013.
^ "History of Louisville Ohio". Archived from the original on August 3, 2008. Retrieved August 12, 2008.
^ Congressional Record, H1941, Appendix to the Congressional Record, p. A1473, Extension of Remarks of Hon. Thad F. Wasielewski of Wisconsin, March 27, 1941, RE: Citizenship Day
^ Office of the Press Secretary (September 15, 2017). "President Donald J. Trump Proclaims September 17, 2017, as Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and September 17, 2017, through September 23, 2017, as Constitution Week". whitehouse.gov. Washington, D.C. Retrieved September 27, 2017 – via National Archives.
^ United States Citizenship and Immigration Services Staff (September 14, 2017). "Celebrating Constitution Day and Citizenship Day (Constitution Week) 2017 with Naturalization Ceremonies". United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. Washington, D.C.: United States Government. Retrieved September 27, 2017.
^ "Constitution Day, Citizenship Day, and Constitution Week, 2017". Federal Register. Washington, D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration. September 13, 2017. Archived from the original on September 21, 2017. Retrieved September 27, 2017. Alt URL
Further reading[edit]
Haverty-Stacke, Donna T. (2009). "World War II and Public Reflections of Americanism'". America's Forgotten Holiday: May Day and Nationalism, 1867–1960. New York: New York University. pp. 182–192. ISBN 978-0814737057
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Constitution Day and Citizenship Day.
Explore quizzes, videos, games, and lessons for Constitution Day
NEH Constitution Day Portal
U.S. Constitution & Citizenship Week at MSOE
Multiple related links on the U.S. Constitution and history of the United States from MSOE
Federal Register announcement
Constitution Day resources for educators, federal employees, individuals, and parents
National Archives
National Constitution Center
The text of US CODE Title 36 § 106, describing Constitution Day and Citizenship Day – Hosted by Cornell University Law School
The text of 36 USC 106, describing Citizenship Day – Hosted by FindLaw.
Shows January 1994 US Code prior to amendment adding Constitution Day to this observance.
The text of H.R. 4818, adding Constitution Day and specifying educational requirements
Constitution Day History – Hosted by FairVote – Center for Voting and Democracy
US declaration font unique font type based on United States Declaration of Independence
Online lessons for K-12 teachers to use on Constitution Day[edit]
Constitution Day Brought to You By The ACLU, Resources for Parents and Educators
Free quizzes, videos, and games for Constitution Day
Free Constitution Day resources for educators
Searchable, user-rated Constitution Day resources for educators
Education World Constitution Day Lesson Planning – List of best web resources and links to online lessons
EDSITEment Constitution Day Lesson Plans and Resources
CRF Constitution Day Lesson Plans – Free downloadable lessons for K-12 educators to plan and implement celebration events.
vteConstitution of the United StatesArticles
Preamble
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
AmendmentsBill of Rights
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1795–1804
11
12
Reconstruction
13
14
15
20th century
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
Unratified
Congressional Apportionment
Titles of Nobility
Corwin Amendment
Child Labor
Equal Rights
District of Columbia Voting Rights
Proposed
Balanced budget
Blaine amendment
Bricker amendment
Campaign finance reform
Christian amendment
Crittenden Compromise
Electoral College abolition
Equal Opportunity to Govern
Federal Marriage
Flag Desecration
Human Life
"Liberty" amendment
Ludlow amendment
Parental Rights amendment
School Prayer
Single subject
Victims' Rights
Convention to propose amendments
State ratifying conventions
Formation
History
Articles of Confederation
Mount Vernon Conference
Annapolis Convention
Philadelphia Convention
Virginia Plan
New Jersey Plan
Connecticut Compromise
Three-fifths Compromise
Committee of Detail
List of Framers
Signing
Printing
Independence Hall
Syng inkstand
The Federalist Papers
Anti-Federalist Papers
Massachusetts Compromise
Virginia Ratifying Convention
New York Circular Letter
Hillsborough Convention
Fayetteville Convention
Rhode Island ratification
Drafting and ratification timeline
Clauses
Admission to the Union
Appointments
Appropriations
Assemble and Petition Clause
Assistance of Counsel
Case or Controversy
Citizenship
Commerce
Compact
Compulsory Process
Confrontation
Congressional enforcement
Contingent Elections
Contract
Copyright and Patent
Double Jeopardy
Due Process
Elections
Engagements
Equal Protection
Establishment
Exceptions
Excessive Bail
Ex Post Facto
Extradition
Free Exercise
Freedom of the Press
Freedom of Speech
Fugitive Slave
Full Faith and Credit
General Welfare
Guarantee
House Apportionment
Impeachment
Import-Export
Ineligibility
Militia
Natural-born citizen
Necessary and Proper
No Religious Test
Oath or Affirmation
Original Jurisdiction
Origination
Pardon
Postal
Presentment
Presidential Electors
Presidential succession
Privileges and Immunities
Privileges or Immunities
Recess appointment
Recommendation
Self-Incrimination
Speech or Debate
Speedy Trial
State of the Union
Supremacy
Suspension
Take Care
Takings
Taxing and Spending
Territorial
Title of Nobility (Foreign Emoluments)
Treaty
Trial by Jury
Vesting (Legislative / Executive / Judicial)
Vicinage
War Powers
Interpretation
Balance of powers
Concurrent powers
Constitutional law
Criminal procedure
Criminal sentencing
Dormant Commerce Clause
Enumerated powers
Equal footing
Executive privilege
Implied powers
Incorporation of the Bill of Rights
Judicial review
Nondelegation doctrine
Plenary power
Preemption
Reserved powers
Saxbe fix
Separation of church and state
Separation of powers
Symmetric federalism
Taxation power
Unitary executive theory
SignatoriesConvention President
George Washington
New Hampshire
John Langdon
Nicholas Gilman
Massachusetts
Nathaniel Gorham
Rufus King
Connecticut
William Samuel Johnson
Roger Sherman
New York
Alexander Hamilton
New Jersey
William Livingston
David Brearley
William Paterson
Jonathan Dayton
Pennsylvania
Benjamin Franklin
Thomas Mifflin
Robert Morris
George Clymer
Thomas Fitzsimons
Jared Ingersoll
James Wilson
Gouverneur Morris
Delaware
George Read
Gunning Bedford Jr.
John Dickinson
Richard Bassett
Jacob Broom
Maryland
James McHenry
Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer
Daniel Carroll
Virginia
John Blair
James Madison
North Carolina
William Blount
Richard Dobbs Spaight
Hugh Williamson
South Carolina
John Rutledge
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
Charles Pinckney
Pierce Butler
Georgia
William Few
Abraham Baldwin
Convention Secretary
William Jackson
Related
Notes of Debates in the Federal Convention of 1787
Jacob Shallus
William Lambert
Bibliography of the United States Constitution
Founding Fathers of the United States
Displayand legacy
National Archives
Rotunda for the Charters of Freedom
Independence Mall
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day
Constitution Gardens
Constitution Week
National Constitution Center
Scene at the Signing of the Constitution (painting)
A More Perfect Union (film)
Worldwide influence
vteHolidays, observances, and celebrations in the United StatesJanuary
New Year's Day (federal)
Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. (federal)
Birthday of Eugenio María de Hostos (PR)
Confederate Heroes Day (TX)
Eve of Three Kings' Day (PR, religious)
Feast of Epiphany / Feast of Theophany (religious)
Fred Korematsu Day (AZ, CA, FL, HI, VA)
Idaho Human Rights Day (ID)
Inauguration Day (federal quadrennial)
Kansas Day (KS)
Makar Sankranti / Pongal (religious)
Robert E. Lee Day (FL)
Stephen Foster Memorial Day (36)
The Eighth (LA)
Three Kings' Day (PR, VI, religious)
World Religion Day (religious)January–February
Chinese New Year / Lunar New Year (NY, cultural, religious)
Vasant Panchami (religious)
FebruaryAmerican Heart MonthBlack History Month
Washington's Birthday (federal)
Valentine's Day
Birthday of Luis Muñoz Marín (PR)
Candlemas (religious)
Charles Darwin Day / Darwin Day (CA, DE)
Day of Remembrance (CA, OR, WA, cultural)
Georgia Day (GA)
Groundhog Day
Imbolc (religious)
Lincoln's Birthday (CA, CT, IL, IN, MO, NY, WV)
National Girls and Women in Sports Day
National Freedom Day (36)
Nirvana Day (religious)
Presentation of Our Lord to the Temple (religious)
Promised Reformer Day (religious)
Ronald Reagan Day (CA)
Rosa Parks Day (CA, MO)
Saviours' Day (religious)
Susan B. Anthony Day (CA, FL, NY, WI, WV, proposed federal)
Tu B’shvat (religious)February–March
Mardi Gras
Ash Wednesday (PR, religious)
Carnival (PR, VI, religious)
Clean Monday (religious)
Courir de Mardi Gras (religious)
Intercalary Days (religious)
Mahashivaratri (religious)
Purim (religious)
Shrove Tuesday (religious)
Super TuesdayMarchIrish-American Heritage MonthColon Cancer Awareness MonthWomen's History Month
Saint Patrick's Day (ethnic)
Spring break (week)
Annunciation of the Virgin Mary / Annunciation of the Theotokos (religious)
Casimir Pulaski Day (IL)
Cesar Chavez Day (CA, CO, TX, proposed federal)
Emancipation Day in Puerto Rico (PR, cultural)
Evacuation Day (Suffolk County, MA)
Harriet Tubman Day (NY)
Hola Mohalla (religious)
Holi (NY, religious)
Lailat al-Mi'raj (religious)
Liberation and Freedom Day (Charlottesville, VA, cultural)
Mardi Gras (AL (in two counties), LA)
Maryland Day (MD)
Medal of Honor Day
National Poison Prevention Week (week)
Nowruz (cultural, religious)
Ostara (religious)
Pi Day
Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole Day (HI)
Promised Messiah Day (religious)
Saint Joseph's Day (religious)
Seward's Day (AK)
Texas Independence Day (TX)
Town Meeting Day (VT)
Transfer Day (VI)
U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day (36)
Trans Day of Visibility (cultural)March–April
Easter (religious)
Good Friday (CT, NC, PR, NJ, VI, religious)
Hanuman Jayanti (religious)
Holy Thursday (PR, VI, religious)
Holy Week (PR, religious, week)
Lazarus Saturday (religious)
Mahavir Janma Kalyanak (religious)
Mesha Sankranti / Hindu New Year (religious)
Palm Sunday (PR, religious)
Passover (religious, week)
Easter Monday / Bright Monday (VI, religious)
Ramnavami (religious)
Chandramana Uugadi / Souramana Uugadi (religious)AprilArab American Heritage MonthConfederate History Month
420
April Fools' Day
Arbor Day
Birthday of José de Diego (PR)
Confederate Memorial Day (AL, MS)
Days of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holocaust (week)
DNA Day
Earth Day
Emancipation Day (cultural)
Thomas Jefferson's Birthday (AL)
Lag B’Omer (religious)
Last Friday of Great Lent (religious)
National First Ladies Day
Pascua Florida (FL)
Patriots' Day (MA, ME)
Ridván (religious)
San Jacinto Day (TX)
Siblings Day
Walpurgis Night (religious)
Yom Ha'atzmaut (cultural, religious)
MayAsian American andPacific Islander Heritage MonthJewish American Heritage MonthMilitary Appreciation Month
Memorial Day (federal)
Mother's Day (36)
Cinco de Mayo
Ascension of Baháʼu'lláh (religious)
Ascension of Our Lord (religious)
Caliphate Day (religious)
Declaration of the Bab (religious)
Harvey Milk Day (CA)
International Workers' Day / May Day (CA, unofficial, proposed state)
Law Day (36)
Loyalty Day (36)
Malcolm X Day (CA, IL, proposed federal)
Military Spouse Day
National Day of Prayer (36)
National Day of Reason
National Defense Transportation Day (36)
National Maritime Day (36)
Peace Officers Memorial Day (36)
Pentecost (religious)
Shavuot (religious)
Truman Day (MO)
Vesak / Buddha's Birthday (religious)JunePride Month
Juneteenth (federal, cultural)
Father's Day (36)
Bunker Hill Day (Suffolk County, MA)
Carolina Day (SC)
Don Young Day (AK)
Fast of the Holy Apostles (religious)
Flag Day (36, proposed federal)
Helen Keller Day (PA)
Honor America Days (3 weeks)
Jefferson Davis Day (AL, FL)
Kamehameha Day (HI)
Litha (religious)
Martyrdom of Guru Arjan Dev Sahib (religious)
Odunde Festival (Philadelphia, PA, cultural)
Senior Week (week)
Saint John's Day (PR, religious)
West Virginia Day (WV)July
Independence Day (federal)
Asalha Puja Day (religious)
Birthday of Don Luis Muñoz Rivera (PR)
Birthday of Dr. José Celso Barbosa (PR)
Emancipation Day in the U.S. Virgin Islands (VI, cultural)
Guru Purnima (religious)
Khordad Sal (religious)
Lā Hoʻihoʻi Ea (HI, unofficial, cultural)
Martyrdom of the Báb (religious)
Parents' Day (36)
Pioneer Day (UT)
Puerto Rico Constitution Day (PR)July–August
Summer vacation
Tisha B'Av (religious)
August
American Family Day (AZ)
Barack Obama Day in Illinois (IL)
Bennington Battle Day (VT)
Dormition of the Theotokos (religious)
Eid-e-Ghadeer (religious)
Fast in Honor of the Holy Mother of Lord Jesus (religious)
Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary (religious)
Hawaii Admission Day / Statehood Day (HI)
Krishna Janmashtami (religious)
Lammas (religious)
Lyndon Baines Johnson Day (TX)
Naga Panchami (religious)
National Aviation Day (36)
Paryushana (religious)
Raksha Bandhan (religious)
Transfiguration of the Lord (religious)
Victory Day (RI)
Women's Equality Day (36)
SeptemberProstate Cancer Awareness MonthChildhood Cancer Awareness MonthGospel Music Heritage Month
Labor Day (federal)
Brazilian Day (NY, cultural)
California Admission Day (CA)
Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day (36)
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day (36)
Constitution Week
Defenders Day (MD)
Elevation of the Holy Cross (religious)
Feast of San Gennaro (NY, cultural, religious)
Ganesh Chaturthi (religious)
Gold Star Mother's Day (36)
His Holiness Sakya Trizin's Birthday (religious)
Mabon (religious)
National Grandparents Day (36)
National Payroll Week (week)
Nativity of Mary / Nativity of the Theotokos (religious)
Native American Day (proposed federal)
Patriot Day (36)
Von Steuben DaySeptember–OctoberHispanic Heritage Month
Chehlum Imam Hussain (religious)
Oktoberfest
Pitri Paksha (religious)
Rosh Hashanah / Feast of Trumpets (TX, NY, religious)
Shemini Atzeret (religious)
Simchat Torah (religious)
Vijaya Dashami (religious)
Yom Kippur / Day of Atonement (TX, NY, religious)
OctoberBreast Cancer Awareness MonthDisability Employment Awareness Month Italian-American Heritage and Culture Month
Filipino American History MonthLGBT History Month
Columbus Day (federal)
Halloween
Alaska Day (AK)
Child Health Day (36)
General Pulaski Memorial Day
German-American Day
Indigenous Peoples' Day
International Day of Non-Violence
Leif Erikson Day (36)
Missouri Day (MO)
Nanomonestotse (cultural)
National School Lunch Week (week)
Native American Day in South Dakota (SD)
Nevada Day (NV)
Spirit Day (cultural)
Sweetest Day
Sukkot / Feast of Tabernacles (religious, week)
Virgin Islands–Puerto Rico Friendship Day (PR, VI)
White Cane Safety Day (36)October–November
Birth of the Báb (religious)
Birth of Baháʼu'lláh (religious)
Day of the Dead (VI)
Diwali (NY, religious)
Mawlid al-Nabi (religious)
November Native American Indian Heritage Month
Veterans Day (federal)
Thanksgiving (federal)
Ascension of ‘Abdu’l Baha (religious)
All Saints' Day (religious)
Beginning of the Nativity Fast (religious)
Beltane / Samhain (religious)
Barack Obama Day in Alabama (Perry County, AL)
D. Hamilton Jackson Day (VI)
Day after Thanksgiving (24)
Day of the Covenant (religious)
Discovery of Puerto Rico Day (PR)
Election Day (CA, DE, HI, KY, MT, NJ, NY, OH, PR, VA, WV, proposed federal)
Family Day (NV)
Friendsgiving
Guru Nanak Gurpurab (religious)
Hanukkah (religious)
Lā Kūʻokoʻa (HI, unofficial, cultural)
Martyrdom of Guru Tegh Bahadur (religious)
Native American Heritage Day (MD, WA, cultural)
Presentation of the Theotokos to the Temple (religious)
Trans Day of Remembrance (cultural)
Unthanksgiving Day (cultural)December
Christmas (religious, federal)
New Year's Eve
Advent Sunday (religious)
Alabama Day (AL)
Birthday of Guru Gobind Singh Sahib (religious)
Bodhi Day (religious)
Chalica (religious)
Christmas Eve (KY, NC, SC, PR, VI)
Day after Christmas (KY, NC, SC, TX, VI)
Festivus
HumanLight
Hanukkah (religious, week)
Immaculate Conception (religious)
Indiana Day (IN)
Kwanzaa (cultural, week)
Milad Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin (religious)
National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day (36)
Nativity of Jesus (religious)
Old Year's Night (VI)
Pan American Aviation Day (36)
Pancha Ganapati (religious, week)
Rosa Parks Day (OH, OR)
Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God (religious)
Wright Brothers Day (36)
Yule (religious)
Zartosht No-Diso (religious)Varies (year round)
Eid al-Adha (NY, religious)
Eid al-Fitr (NY, religious)
Islamic New Year (religious)
Yawm al-Arafa (religious)
Hajj (religious)
Laylat al-Qadr (religious)
Navaratri (religious, four times a year)
Obon (religious)
Onam (religious)
Ramadan (religious, month)
Ghost Festival (religious)
Yawm Aashura (religious)
Legend:
(federal) = federal holidays, (abbreviation) = state/territorial holidays, (religious) = religious holidays, (cultural) = holiday related to a specific racial/ethnic group or sexual minority, (week) = week-long holidays, (month) = month-long holidays, (36) = Title 36 Observances and Ceremonies
See also: Lists of holidays, Hallmark holidays, Public holidays in the United States, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands.
Portals: Holidays United States
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Constitution_Day_and_Citizenship_Day&oldid=1311967386"
Categories: Public holidays in the United StatesUnited States flag flying daysSeptember observancesConstitution daysDrafting of the United States ConstitutionAutumn in the United StatesAnnual events in the United StatesHolidays related to the American RevolutionRobert ByrdSons of the American RevolutionHidden categories: Pages using IMDb title with no id setArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from September 2018Infobox holiday with missing fieldInfobox holiday fixed dayAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2018Commons category link from Wikidata
This page was last edited on 17 September 2025, at 22:24 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day
3 languages
Add topic