AWS Analyst Reports
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS›
Getting started›
Resources
Featured | 2025 Gartner Report Magic Quadrant for Data Science and Machine Learning Platforms
AWS in Analyst Research
Read what Gartner, IDC, and other top analyst firms are saying about AWS. All privileges have been secured to include content on this site for all audiences.
Get started with AWS
Reports
IDC MarketScape
Cloud AI Developer Services
Vendor Rating
2024 ISG SAP HANA Infrastructure Services
Is Your Cloud Resilient Enough?
IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Public Cloud Infrastructure as a Service 2025 Vendor Assessment
“AWS is a Leader in the public cloud IaaS market through service breadth and continuous innovation. Their extensive global infrastructure, combined with custom silicon initiatives like Graviton and significant AI investments, positions them uniquely to serve enterprise needs. Their proven track record in scalability, established developer community, and aggressive investments in AI infrastructure, make them the go-to choice for organizations requiring sophisticated cloud capabilities.” states IDC analyst and report author Dave McCarthy.
Read the IDC report
2024 Gartner Report Magic Quadrant for Cloud AI Developer Services
In the 2024 Gartner Magic Quadrant, AWS is recognized as a Leader and has been placed highest on Ability to Execute
Read the Gartner report
Gartner | 2024 Vendor Rating: Amazon
Gartner Recognizes Amazon for Receiving an overall Vendor Rating of Positive
Read the Gartner report
2024 ISG Report Provider Lens Multi Public Cloud Services Quadrant - SAP HANA Infrastructure Services
“AWS offers the most comprehensive services for migrating and hosting SAP workloads on public cloud infrastructure,” Shashank Rajmane, Principal Analyst said in the report. “It provides cost efficiencies and high performance while adhering to all security and compliance regulations.”
Read the ISG report
Frost and Sullivan | Is Your Cloud Resilient Enough? What to Look for in Cloud Infrastructure Design
Did you know AWS delivered an industry leading uptime of 99.54% across APAC from January 2022 to June 2024, through 13 regions and 41 Availability zones?
Read the Frost and Sullivan report
Analyst Reports
Loading
Loading
Loading
Loading
Loading
Additional Resources
AWS content
Whitepapers | Explore documents written by independent analysts, the AWS team, and the AWS community on product introductions, framework overviews, and more.
AWS in the News | Catch up on the latest AWS news announced by Forbes, TechCrunch, ZDNet, and other media outlets.
What's New | Stay up to date on the latest AWS product and service announcements.
AWS Podcast | Listen and learn about AWS with hosts Simon Elisha & Jeff Barr. Each episode includes AWS news, tech tips, and interviews with startups, AWS partners, and AWS employees.
Peer reviews | With the rapid growth of review platforms for software vendors among individual developers, start-ups, and enterprises around the world, customers are asking for AWS ratings backed by other users. Peer review platforms like G2 Crowd and Gartner Peer Insights allow veteran and new AWS users to join a growing, dynamic community to answer questions, share ideas, and learn about new services and best practices.
G2 Crowd | Compare AWS services and read reviews by customers based on satisfaction ratings and user experiences.
Gartner Peer Insights | Read what enterprise customers and IT professionals think about AWS on this review platform hosted by Gartner Research.
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.