Strategy - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Business
Strategy
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Barry Diller likes to give younger workers 'more responsibility than they qualify for' to see who succeeds
2 min read
I use AI as my personal assistant, mindset coach, creative writing partner, and more. Here are the 5 tools that have changed my life.
6 min read
I landed a job in a month when I started using a strategic LinkedIn filter. It's not a perfect hack, but it got me a job I love.
After months of panic, 28-year-old Lauren Young finally found success in the job market using LinkedIn filters in her job hunt.
6 min read
The Golden State Valkyries smashed WNBA attendance records in their inaugural season. The team's president shares the launch plan.
The Golden State Valkyries have sold out every home game at Chase Center. They're already valued at $500 million, the highest in the league.
5 min read
Under Armour CEO says he values micromanagement 'at certain levels' — and follows the 80/20 rule
Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank described an 80/20 balance for chasing the speed of the market while also allowing free time to think.
2 min read
Grindr CEO says he's keeping the company's latest venture small to give it the biggest chance at success
Grindr CEO George Arison told us he's keeping the company's telemedicine venture as small as a "founding team," with only three employees. Here's why.
3 min read
Ben Horowitz explains why A16z invested in Adam Neumann after WeWork woes: 'We've all had bad things happen to us'
Ben Horowitz said that investing in WeWork founder Adam Neumann's startup Flow was A16z's "single most controversial investment."
3 min read
He was a Google VP and Stripe's CTO. He has 2 pieces of advice for conducting engaging meetings.
Former Stripe CTO and Google VP David Singleton said leaders should prepare and give context to keep workers' attention during meetings.
2 min read
Evan Spiegel is going 'startup' mode as he says Snap faces a 'crucible moment'
Snap is the latest tech company to embrace small teams. CEO Evan Spiegel wants to reenergize growth amid what he sees as a "crucible moment."
3 min read
Power Hours
I'm Grindr's CEO. I skip breakfast thanks to Mounjaro, read with my kids, and can't imagine life not in 'founder mode'
Grindr CEO George Arison's average day starts with checking email and Slack, seeing his kids, and stretching. Then, the meetings begin.
8 min read
NBA players are becoming the richest athletes by forgoing traditional free-agency leverage
NBA players are breaking sports tradition by extending their contracts instead of playing the market as free agents, and it's boosting their salaries.
5 min read
Macy's CEO says he reads 'every customer note' he receives
Macy's CEO Tony Spring said he reads "every customer note" to help with improvements in stores and product offerings.
2 min read
Judge Judy's 5 tips for negotiating your salary
Judge Judy Sheindlin, who reportedly earned $47 million a year at the end of her syndicated TV show, recently shared her negotiating tips with Amy Poehler.
3 min read
Unilever's new CEO is shaking up the company with sharp cuts at the top: 'We are fed up with mediocrity'
Unilever's CEO says he is looking to replace up to a quarter of the company's top 200 leaders as it streamlines its global operations.
3 min read
Inside the NFL's strategy to grow global football fandom
The National Football League has added seven international games this season. Its global strategy focuses on fandom growth beyond short-term revenue.
5 min read
Paul Graham, who coined 'founder mode,' says it's possible to go 'too far' and veer into micromanaging
Paul Graham coined "founder mode" almost a year ago. Now, he's differentiating between being in the details and micromanaging.
3 min read
I dove headfirst into the unhinged Morning Routine Industrial Complex
A survey of America's 250-year, unhinged quest for the perfect morning routine, from Benjamin Franklin to Bryan Johnson.
16 min read
Mark Zuckerberg goes 'startup mode'
Tech is emulating startups by embracing small teams packed with star staff. The big question is whether the strategy can transform giants like Meta.
5 min read
I left my corporate career to start a cleaning business 5 years ago. I still don't take a salary, but my family is doing much better off.
Burgess Heberer left his 9-to-5 to pursue his side hustle full-time shortly after starting it.
5 min read
The AT&T CEO's blunt memo is a test case for leaders
AT&T chief John Stankey's memo tells employees exactly where he stands on workplace loyalty and RTO. CEOs weighed in on what comes next.
5 min read
3 tips for employees to manage their health from EY's chief well-being officer
EY's chief well-being officer shared 3 tips for employees to take charge of their health in a tough job environment.
2 min read
I found a new job within 2 months of being put on a layoff list. Five actions helped me transition smoothly and quickly.
Steve Prokopiou navigated a redundancy notice by leveraging his network, and using negotiation strategies to secure his dream job in under two months.
5 min read
Fatigue, flashbacks, and crying on commutes: 5 workers describe what 'quiet cracking' looks like
"Quiet cracking" describes unhappy workers who feel stuck in their jobs. Five people opened up to Business Insider about their experiences.
4 min read
Have you experienced 'quiet cracking' at work? Let us know.
"Quiet cracking" can affect morale, productivity, and culture and lead to burnout.
1 min read
Step aside, quiet quitting. Now, employers have to worry about 'quiet cracking.'
In the current employer's job market, workers are staying put and "struggling in silence," says Frank Giampietro, EY Americas' chief well-being officer.
4 min read
Readers told us how they use AI in their job search — or why they avoid it
Business Insider asked readers how they use AI in their job search process, if at all. Here's what they said.
3 min read
We asked readers for the biggest red flags they've seen in job interviews. Here's what you told us.
What red flags do job seekers look for in job interviews? BI readers told us.
3 min read
AT&T CEO John Stankey is embracing hardcore culture — and Wall Street loves it
CEO John Stankey is reshaping AT&T to be more like Verizon and T-Mobile — and Wall Street appears to approve of his refocus on the "fundamentals."
6 min read
How business leaders like Jeff Bezos and Mark Cuban feel about work-life balance
Many business leaders have strong opinions on work-life balance. Some support it while others say it holds you back in your career.
7 min read
We asked for your biggest red flags in a job post or application. Here's what you told us.
We recently asked readers to share with us their biggest turnoffs in the job search process. Here's what you told us.
2 min read
5 things the AT&T CEO's sweeping memo says about where corporate America is headed
AT&T CEO John Stankey didn't hold back in a sweeping memo to managers on Friday, revealing broader trends in corporate culture.
6 min read
Tesla cofounder's advice to managers facing ultimatums from their engineers? 'March them to the door'
Tesla cofounder Martin Eberhard said that past employees demanded stock or raises during critical moments. He said he should have fired them.
3 min read
Elon Musk is going founder mode on Tesla's $16.5 billion chip deal with Samsung
Elon Musk said Samsung "agreed to allow Tesla to assist in maximizing manufacturing efficiency" at its chip plant. He will "walk the line personally."
3 min read
14 unusual CEO habits, from the rideshare bosses who work as chauffeurs to daily trips to the grocery store
These are some of the bizarre daily habits of top CEOs such as Elon Musk, Tim Cook, and Jack Dorsey.
7 min read
I'm a matchmaker for high-net-worth clients who charges up to $500,000. Sometimes I conduct over 100 interviews for 1 date.
Matchmaker Jennifer Donnelly works with ultra high net worth clients, charging rates from $150,000 to $500,000.
4 min read
Cover letter requirements and unlimited PTO are among the biggest dealbreakers for job candidates. Tell us yours.
New data from Adobe Acrobat highlights some of job seekers' biggest red flags in a job listing. Business Insider wants to hear yours.
2 min read
Psychologists and generational experts say there's more to the 'Gen Z Stare' than meets the eye
Some say the Gen Z stare signals poor communication and social skills. Psychologists and generational experts told BI that's not necessarily the case.
4 min read
Former Amazon principal engineer says he spent '1-4 hours' reading daily — and it's part of the company's 'secret sauce'
Steve Huynh was a principal engineer at Amazon. He praised its culture of writing and reading 6-page memos, a practice that began under Jeff Bezos.
3 min read
I'm a recruiter, and a résumé scanner said my CV was 'bad.' Here's why I don't trust ATS tailoring tools.
A recruiter says a résumé scanner gave advice that could harm applicants' chances. Instead of ATS tailoring, focus on proving job competency.
5 min read
Ex-OpenAI VP says the most successful company teams are like the Avengers
"It's almost like you're playing an RPG where everyone has different sliders and you have to create this super team," said investor Peter Deng.
2 min read
I'm a CEO who felt overwhelmed by life and work. I thought an executive assistant would fix things but I was wrong — here's what worked instead.
CEO Noah Greenberg transformed his chaotic calendar into a productivity powerhouse using strategies like calendar mapping and annual silent retreats.
5 min read
Want to land a tech internship? A Google engineer explains how networking 'intentionally' can help
Aashna Doshi interned at Google twice before she received a return offer. To separate herself from the pack, she focused on her network and portfolio.
5 min read
The do's and don'ts of LinkedIn
Experts shared their tips on optimizing your LinkedIn profile and building your professional brand on the site to aid your job search.
4 min read
I've helped write over 700 résumés after leaving my decadelong recruiting career. Here's what I tell my clients to add and remove.
Recruiter and résumé writer Sam Struan advices his clients not to worry about fitting their job experiences onto just one page.
4 min read
A professional field hockey captain and serial entrepreneur says these 4 traits make a good leader
How Boris Burkhardt, a professional field hockey captain and entrepreneur,
applies the key leadership traits from sports to his business ventures.
4 min read
PwC's chief AI officer: AI is moving quickly. Here's how leaders can avoid getting left behind.
Dan Priest, PwC's chief AI officer, highlighted the urgency for CEOs to develop comprehensive AI strategies
in order to stay ahead of the curve.
3 min read
Two authors studied 16,000 megaprojects. Less than 1% fully succeeded
Dan Gardner, coauthor of How Big Things Get Done, examines why most major projects fail and how a few succeed.
CarGurus created a working group for AI experimentation. Employees are buying in.
The online marketplace for cars is helping its employees adopt and explore new tech with AI Forward, a working group designed to lead AI adoption.
6 min read
I started a recruiting firm after getting laid off. I now work 9-2, am around for my kids — and make a lot more money.
Laura McDonough started her own recruiting firm after a pandemic layoff, and achieved a better work-life balance as well as increasing her income.
4 min read
President and CMO Jackie Jantos talks Hinge's 'with, not for' product strategy
President and CMO Jackie Jantos discusses how Hinge builds products with its intended audiences and how the dating app has grown in recent years.
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.