We Solved the EV Charging vs. Gasoline Cost Debate With Experts and Math - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Electric Vehicles
We Solved the EV Charging vs. Gasoline Cost Debate With Experts and Math
We break down the numbers and ask industry experts whether powering an electric vehicle or filling a gas tank is truly cheaper in today’s market.
Some EV owners are particularly proud of their gas-free transportation. Amy Kim/CNET
Table of Contents
We Solved the EV Charging vs. Gasoline Cost Debate With Experts and Math
We do the math: Comparing EV charging to filling a gas tank
EV charging costs vs. fuel costs (US averages)
Monthly cost of charging an EV
The cost of EV charging at home vs. public EV charging
The cost of level 2 vs. level 3 charging
The costs of EV home charging equipment
How we do the math: Gas costs vs. EV charging costs
Which is cheaper: Powering a gas car or charging your electric vehicle? It’s an ongoing debate on social media platforms including Reddit and TikTok. One Reddit user says they now spend $70 more on their electricity bill from at-home charging compared with $330 a month in gas previously. Some Reddit users argue against the actual savings. One naysayer, for example, argues that public supercharging is expensive and time consuming. Another says the cost of installing their home EV charger negated any savings.
This story is part of
CNET Zero, a series that chronicles the impact of climate change and explores what's being done about the problem.
Lowering fuel costs could be the main reason EV-curious drivers consider going all-electric in the first place. In June 2022, gas prices hit a record high, averaging more than $5 a gallon nationwide, and although gas prices have fallen to about $3.18 as of September, gas price volatility has many drivers looking at alternatives, such as EVs or hybrids. The deeper we dove down the Reddit-rabbit hole, the more we found that not all Americans are ready to join the EV revolution. That message is echoed by a CNET survey from summer 2024 that found 43% of US adults have concerns with purchasing EVs, with 21% of respondents citing the cost of charging as a negative factor. We asked industry experts the big question: Is it cheaper to charge an electric vehicle versus fueling a gas-powered car? The verdict is in -- based on current US averages, EV charging wins out. The price of gasoline is volatile and, in some areas, expensive. Electricity also varies in price, but "it's significantly cheaper" than gasoline, said Anastasia Boutziouvis, solution product manager at ChargePoint, a company that operates the world's largest network of EV charging stations in North America and Europe. That means recharging an EV likewise will usually be considerably less expensive than topping off a gas-powered car's fuel tank."Generally, I find that charging an EV is less expensive than filling up a gas-powered car even in my neck of the woods, California, where we have the second-highest energy rates in the US," said CNET's 16-year auto and EV expert Antuan Goodwin. "That's probably because California also has the highest gas prices in the US, as well."   We'll show you the math on how much cheaper charging an EV is compared to an internal combustion engine car, below.
We do the math: Comparing EV charging to filling a gas tankWhen considering the costs of fueling or charging an electric car versus a gas car, the differences are stark and fairly obvious. EVs are propelled by electricity that is stored in batteries, which need to be recharged. Gas-powered cars or those outfitted with internal combustion engines are fueled by burning gasoline. Using averages from government data sources and AAA fuel prices, we did the math and mapped out for you all the monthly charging and fueling costs side by side. These calculations use US driving averages for both EVs and ICE cars in data points such as fuel economy, miles driven, cost of electricity and gasoline, power needed for the average EV and more. You could drive a lot more (or less) and accordingly, see your fuel costs vary remarkably.EV charging costs vs. fuel costs (US averages)ElectricGas3 miles per kWh25 mpg417 kWh50 gallons$0.175 per kWh$3.18 per gallon$73 month total$159 month total*Calculations based on an average of 1,250 miles of distance covered in one month*Based on US averages using these data sources:Environmental Protection Agency (2024)Bureau of Transportation Statistics (2023)AAA Gas Prices (September 2025)US Energy Information Administration (2025)Using US averages, we calculated the monthly cost of driving 1,250 miles in both an average electric vehicle and an average gas-powered car to create the graphic above. Here are the average US figures we used to do the math.EV charging per monthGasoline car per month Average miles driven per month1,250 miles1,250 milesAverage fuel cost per gallon —$3.18 per gallonAverage miles per gallon—25 mpgAverage number of gallons of fuel required —50 gallonsAverage power needed for an EV 3 miles per kWh—Average kWh used per month417 kWh—Average cost of electricity is (per US household)$0.175 or 17.5 cents per kWh —Average energy cost per mile$0.058 (or 5.8 cents)$0.127 (or 12.7 cents) Cost by cost monthly comparison $73 monthly recharging costs$159 monthly fuel expenseUsing US averages, we found the monthly cost of charging an EV to be $73 versus $159 to fuel an ICE car.Using the same figures above, here's a yearly costs comparison:  CategoryYearly average costTo fuel an ICE car$1,908To charge an EV$876Yearly difference (EV vs. ICE car fuel)$1,032Again, prices for gasoline and electricity vary by location -- so your actual savings may be more or less. For example, outlier states like Hawaii (40.96 cents per kWh) and California (33.52 cents per kWh) are far above the national average of 17.5 cents per kWh that we used in our math above. The type of car or EV you have also plays a factor in cost savings. A Tesla Model 3 and a Ford F-150 Lightning -- while both EVs -- won't have the same power efficiency.
Watch this: Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV?
07:45
Monthly cost of charging an EVThe cost to fuel or charge an EV depends on several factors, but the cheapest way to do it is to charge your EV at home, during off-peak hours. In other words, charging your EV overnight with an at-home charging setup is likely the least costly way to recharge, and in some areas, may only cost a dollar or two -- a fraction of the price of a gallon of gas.Boutziouvis said that "at a high level, what we're seeing is that the costs are about one-half or one-third of the costs of a gas-powered car" in terms of getting a "full tank," so to speak.She said it can cost a few dollars, on average, to recharge an EV. Assuming that you're charging your EV at home using your own charger, the price of doing so really boils down to what you pay for electricity. "It's totally based on local utility rates, and those vary across the US," she said. Overall charging cost may also depend on whether you have a fixed-rate or variable electric rate or how your chosen energy plan outlines its time-of-use rates throughout the day.The cost of EV charging at home vs. public EV charging Another critical aspect that EV owners need to consider is the difference in costs between charging at home versus charging in public. If you don't have a charger or the ability to charge your EV at home, you'll need to do it somewhere else. There are public charging stations in many places such as retail parking lots. Here's an in-depth guide to where you can charge for free.At-home charging tends to be cheaper, although there can be upfront costs when installing an EV charger and possibly upgrading your home's electrical system. AAA added a price tracker for public EV charging to its fuel prices coverage, and the current average cost as of Sept. 2, 2025 is 36.5 cents per kWh, more than double the cost of charging at home.Home charging costs The costs of charging at home will, as noted, depend on what you pay for electricity, which will vary depending on where you live. Electricity tends to be more expensive in Hawaii, New England and California and less expensive in western and Midwestern states, such as North Dakota, Utah and Washington. The nationwide average is just over 17.5 cents per kilowatt hour.Another thing to keep in mind is that some states with deregulated energy markets -- more commonly known as energy choice markets -- may have additional incentives available to EV drivers. Some states "offer really cool plans where they'll give you [EV] charging for free," said Boutziouvis. She also mentioned certain energy providers may offer incentives that are "almost like a cellphone plan, with unlimited charging for $20 per month" or something similar. One other thing is that you may be able to use smartphone apps to schedule EV charging during off-peak hours, or when electricity rates are the cheapest (usually overnight), to save more money.Driving electric can give you a degree of control over your operating costs, said Goodwin. "I can save money by charging at home or pay more for the convenience of fast charging on longer trips" "Or you go to the extreme of investing in solar or home energy storage for even more flexibility and energy independence in the long run -- versus combustion cars where I'm simply at the mercy of gas prices," said Goodwin.    Public charging costsAs for public charging, Boutziouvis said there are "different ways to price it," as most public charging stations are independently owned and pricing is therefore up to the owner. Tesla is a notable example. It has its own fleet of charging stations, and in addition to the cost of electricity, it charges 50 cents per minute in "idle fees" to encourage you to drive away and free up chargers for other users.Aside from Tesla chargers, other stations typically charge either a flat rate, a fee based on consumption or a fee based on the amount of time an EV driver uses the charger, Boutziouvis said. The costs are determined by local electricity rates plus any applicable fees or markup that the charger's owner implements. There are two "levels" or types of charging to know about, which are AC and DC -- or level 2 and level 3 charging (more on this below). Effectively, DC charging is much faster and likely more expensive at a public charging station. "DC charging could be $10 to $30 per session," Boutziouvis said, and takes 20 or 30 minutes to recharge a battery from 0% to 80%. Conversely, "AC public charging could be a couple of bucks," she said."Two to three hours gets you enough range to get back on the road," said Goodwin. "A true full charge at level 2 could take six to 12 hours depending on your car and the charging station." This is why Goodwin recommends the practice of fully charging your EV overnight at home. "That's usually the cheapest, most convenient option," he said.  Put another way: The faster the charger, the more expensive it's going to be. There are more ways to save on electric driving costs that require some planning, says Goodwin. "Taking advantage of off-peak charging at home if you're able, capitalizing on free EV charging at work or while shopping and maximizing local incentives are great starting points."    The cost of level 2 vs. level 3 chargingThe difference between level 2 and level 3 charging mostly involves speed and how much electricity is moving through a charger and into an EV's battery. Level 2 charging Level 2 charging "is what you'd find in your house," said Boutziouvis, and usually delivers between 7 and 11 kilowatts to an EV's battery. That might get the typical EV 30 or 40 miles of range if they charge for a couple of hours. Given that the charging is slower, it may cost a few dollars to charge your EV at a level 2 public charging station.Level 3 charging Level 3 or DC fast-charging, on the other hand, delivers between 50 and 350 kilowatts within the same timeframe. Given that many, if not most, EV homeowners charge at home and overnight, it's typically not practical to have a level 3 charging setup at home, so these chargers are generally found in public locations. Given that they're faster, it may cost between $10 and $30 to charge at one, as Boutziouvis mentions.The costs of EV home charging equipment Charging your EV at home may be the cheapest way to refill the battery, but getting a charger hooked up can be a relatively big expense. The cost really hinges on whether your at-home electrical setup can handle the addition of a charger. If not, you may need an electrician to replace your electrical panel (the breaker box is likely located in your basement or garage). That can be expensive depending on where you live and other factors. Assuming you don't need an upgrade, Boutziouvis said a charger installation could cost around $700, and the costs may vary depending on how physically far away from your electrical panel the charger is. More distance means higher costs, as more materials are required. If you do need an upgraded electrical setup, a new electrical panel can cost a few thousand dollars.There may be some utility discounts and incentives, too. Duke Energy, for instance, provides a one-time credit of more than $1,100 per charger in some areas.A good rule of thumb: If you plan on shopping around for a charger, check with multiple companies, check with your utility for credits and rebates and explore all applicable tax incentives to ensure you get the best deal.Read more: Best Home EV Chargers for 2025
The addition of a plug and a larger battery allows PHEVs to drive moderate distances on pure electric power before switching over to hybrid operation. This is what makes a hybrid a good compromise.
Theron Green/CNETHow we do the math: Gas costs vs. EV charging costs Calculation typeFormulaExample (US averages)Monthly gasoline costs[Miles driven per month]  ÷ [Miles per gallon (MPG) of your vehicle] = [Gallons of fuel required monthly]*This number gives you the amount of gallons of fuel needed for the month.1,250 miles ÷ 25 MPG = 50 gallons[Gallons of fuel required for the month] ✖ [Price of gas per gallon] = [Monthly fuel expense]50 monthly gallons ✖ $3.20 per gallon = $160 monthly fuel expenseMonthly electric vehicle charging costs[Miles driven per month]  ÷ [EV miles per kWh] = [kWh used per month for EV]*This gives you the expected amount of kWh needed to power your EV each month.1,250 monthly miles  ÷ 3 kWh per mile = 417 kWh per month[Cost per kWh for electricity] ✖ [kWh used per month for EV] = [Monthly EV charging costs]$0.175 ✖ 417 = $72.98 monthly recharging costs
Katie Collins
Read more from Katie
Katie oversees coverage for home technology, broadband, heath, wellness, sleep, home energy & utilities, and electric vehicles.
Prior to joining CNET, Katie worked at Time Magazine's former personal finance brand, NextAdvisor, as well as at The Simple Dollar, Reviews.com, Interest.com and CreditCards.com.
Katie holds a bachelor's degree in deviant behavior and social control from CUNY's John Jay College of Criminal Justice and spent a decade working with at-risk teenagers, facilitating family crisis intervention and anger management groups. Katie took her counseling skills and passion for helping people into service journalism. Her goal is to help people make purchase decisions and to help you reach your personal life goals.
Katie's free time is spent with her two human children and one fur child. You can reach her at kcollins@cnet.com.
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Other Energy Saving Guides
Other Types of Energy
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Portable Power Stations
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced
Home Generator Buying Guide
Heat Pump vs. Furnace
Anker Portable Power Station
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced vs. Nest Thermostat
Nest Learning Thermostat vs. Nest Thermostat
Storage Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart
Living Off the Grid Series
Moving Off- Grid: My Ultimate Pandemic Project Is About More Than Utility Bills
How Living With Solar Panels Demystified Electricity for Me
For Life Off the Grid, Batteries Mean Independence
The Biggest Pros and Cons of Living Off-Grid Arent What I Expected
The Hidden (and Not So Hidden) Expenses of Living Off Grid
My Off-Grid Project: The Secrets I Learned to Save on Solar
Article updated on September 19, 2025 at 6:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Katie Collins
Written by
Sam Becker
Written by
Mike De Socio
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Katie Collins Editorial Director Katie oversees coverage for home technology, broadband, heath, wellness, sleep, home energy & utilities, and electric vehicles.
Prior to joining CNET, Katie worked at Time Magazine's former personal finance brand, NextAdvisor, as well as at The Simple Dollar, Reviews.com, Interest.com and CreditCards.com.
Katie holds a bachelor's degree in deviant behavior and social control from CUNY's John Jay College of Criminal Justice and spent a decade working with at-risk teenagers, facilitating family crisis intervention and anger management groups. Katie took her counseling skills and passion for helping people into service journalism. Her goal is to help people make purchase decisions and to help you reach your personal life goals.
Katie's free time is spent with her two human children and one fur child. You can reach her at kcollins@cnet.com. Expertise Home tech, sleep, mattresses, broadband, electric vehicles, renewable energy, deregulated energy, personal finance, mortgages, home equity.
See full bio
Sam Becker Contributor Sam Becker is a freelance writer whose work has appeared in and on CNBC, Fortune, USA Today, Business Insider, and more. Sam is also the author of the growing finance and strategy-focused newsletter, "Not Pretty, Not Rich."
See full bio
Mike De Socio Contributor Mike De Socio is a CNET contributor who writes about energy, personal finance, electric vehicles and climate change. He's also the author of the nonfiction book, "Morally Straight: How the Fight for LGBTQ+ Inclusion Changed the Boy Scouts-And America." His path in journalism has taken him through almost every part of the newsroom, earning awards along the way from the Boston Press Photographers Association and the Society of Professional Journalists. Mike recently became a certified electric coach and aims to drive climate action through electrification education. As an independent journalist, his work has also been published in Bloomberg, The Guardian, Fortune and beyond. Expertise Energy | Climate change | Personal finance Credentials Journalism awards from the Boston Press Photographers Association, the Society of Professional Journalists and Boston University
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
174175176177178179180+ Experts Interviewed 030405060708091011121314+ Companies Reviewed 108109110111112113+ Products Reviewed
How we test
We thoroughly evaluate each company and product we review and ensure our stories meet our high editorial standards.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.