Puro earth corc dataset | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Close modal
Pardon our appearance
We are actively working to enhance your experience by translating more content. However, please be aware that the page you are about to visit has not yet been translated.
We appreciate your undertanding and patience as we continue to imporove our services.
Continue
Investment Intelligence
Solutions
Nasdaq Investment Intelligence is focused on enabling economic growth through access to capital and transparency. Learn More
Nasdaq eVestment™
Bringing transparency and efficiency to the global institutional market, equipping managers, asset owners and consultants to make data-driven decisions, deploy their resources more productively and ultimately realize better outcomes.
Nasdaq Solovis
Gain instant insight across your entire multi-asset class portfolio. Improve visibility with one dashboard for modeling, analysis and reporting. Conduct bottom-up portfolio analysis from any angle. Empower users with powerful, easy to-use report writing tools to meet the needs of all constituents.
Nasdaq Data Link
Powerful, centralized, cloud-based technology platform providing access to more than 250 trusted data sets, available via API.
Nasdaq Global Indexes
Nasdaq is dedicated to designing powerful, relevant index and benchmark families that are in sync with the continually changing market environment.
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries (NFS) is evolving the way Limited Partners (LPs) and General Partners (GPs) participate in the private fund secondaries market. Our platform opens opportunities for liquidity and facilitates transparent end-to-end execution across multiple deal structures.
Nasdaq Fund Network
Nasdaq Fund Network (NFN) offers fund data services that deliver transparency to investable products to help ensure professionals and non-professionals can make more informed decisions with their assets.
Clients
APAC
English
简体中文
繁體中文
한국어
日本語
EMEA
More
Clients
APAC
English
简体中文
繁體中文
한국어
日本語
EMEA
Contact Us
CORC Dataset
Providing insights into the engineered carbon dioxide removal (CDR) market
Contact Us
Overview
The CORC dataset is based on information from Puro.earth’s Registry and transaction data sent to Puro.earth. The dataset gives unique insights into CO2 Removal Certificates (CORCs) - tradable assets that represent one ton of CO2 removed from the atmosphere. The dataset covers information from June 2019 onwards with most data updated bi-weekly and some data updated quarterly.
Overview
The CORC dataset is based on information from Puro.earth’s Registry and transaction data sent to Puro.earth. The dataset gives unique insights into CO2 Removal Certificates (CORCs) - tradable assets that represent one ton of CO2 removed from the atmosphere. The dataset covers information from June 2019 onwards with most data updated bi-weekly and some data updated quarterly.
CORC Dataset Use cases
Issuance Insights
The data can provide insights into the facilities that have issued CORCs and the extent to which these CORCs have been retired
Understand price and volume
Companies can gain an understanding of the price and volume of CORCs issued based on the aggregated reference price in the market.
Geographical distribution
The data provides information on the geographical distribution with the highest retirement of CORCs as well as which corporations are using CORCs in their carbon emissions strategy.
Registry data
The registry data contains details on CORC issuances and facilities, including auditor names, audit period, locations, owners, methodologies, etc. The data also shows CORC retirements and issuance facilities, aggregated by facility and vintage year
Transaction data
The transaction data shows aggregated ownership changes between sellers and buyers per methodology. The dataset also provides historical and recent values for the Carbon Removal Reference Price Index family (CORCX), displaying the price in Euros/ton of CORC transactions meeting the index criteria.
For further details on index calculation and eligibility criteria, refer to following methodology document: https://www.nasdaq.com/solutions/carbon-removal-platform
Carbon Removal Data Product
CORC Data overview
In June 2021, Nasdaq acquired a majority stake in carbon removal platform Puro.earth. Subsequently, in March 2022, Nasdaq introduced the world’s first carbon removal reference price indexes tracking the price of Carbon Removal Certificates (CORCs) issued by Puro.earth. As of September 2024, Nasdaq launched the first Carbon Removal Certificate (CORC) data product sourcing data from Puro.earth Registry and the transaction data sent to Puro.earth, with a continuous aim to create transparency in the carbon removal market.
Contact Us
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies