I Got My Hands on the Pixel 10: The Impressive Triple-Camera Setup Isn't Its Only Wow Factor - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechMobile Phones
I Got My Hands on the Pixel 10: The Impressive Triple-Camera Setup Isn't Its Only Wow Factor
Review: With a new telephoto camera, a bigger battery and a slew of integrated AI features, the $799 Pixel 10 is an enticing choice that nails the basics -- and then some.
Article updated on August 27, 2025 at 10:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.7/ 10
SCORE Pixel 10
$799 at Google
Pros
5x telephoto camera
Long-lasting battery
Practical AI features like Magic Cue and Voice Translate
Same $799 price tag as last year's Pixel 9
Cons
Some AI features are a work in progress
Similar appearance to Pixel 9
Table of Contents
I Got My Hands on the Pixel 10: The Impressive Triple-Camera Setup Isn't Its Only Wow Factor
Pixel 10 look and durability
Pixel 10 cameras bring a triple-wow factor
AI galore, with a lens for practicality
Battery life and storage
Final thoughts: Should you buy the Pixel 10?
Pixel 10 vs. Pixel 9 vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 vs. Pixel 10 Pro vs. Pixel 10 Pro XL
How we test phones
The Google Pixel 10 stole the spotlight during my weekend trip to San Luis Obispo, California -- and not just because of its eye-catching yellow-green design. As my friends and I marveled at the beachside cliffs, swanky mansions and swaying palm trees, we also gawked at the pictures I snapped at each zoom level, including 20x digital zoom -- something I'd typically never dare to do for fear of grainy photos.But far from grainy, the images of Barbie pink mansions and secluded coves came out much clearer and more vivid than I'd expected, thanks to Google's Super Res Zoom feature, which uses AI to spruce up photos. This, paired with a standout main camera and a new 5x telephoto lens, makes the baseline Pixel a worthy choice for anyone who's likely to choose a phone based on camera capabilities, even if it's not as souped-up as the high-end Pixel 10 Pro and Pro XL.It's not just the camera that helps the Pixel 10 stand out, but also its long-lasting battery and integrated AI features that make everything from tracking down your reservations to snapping a decent group photo much easier. I spent a week with Google's latest baseline phone and was pleased with how effortlessly capable and reliable it is -- which is exactly what a $799 device ultimately should be.
The Pixel 10 has a 6.3-inch OLED display with a 120Hz variable refresh rate, and 3,000-nit peak brightness. Celso Bulgatti/CNETPixel 10 look and durabilityThe Pixel 10 feels sturdy in my hand, with an aluminum frame and Corning's Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on the front and back. The phone comes in a fun range of colors: indigo, obsidian (black), frost (a light lavender-blue color) and lemongrass (a bright yellow-green). I got the lemongrass version, which looks bold without being too overpowering; the glass backing also gives it a pleasingly polished look and feel. The sides of the phone carry over a more subdued version of that green-ish tone for a more cohesive look. The Pixel 10 has an IP68 rating for dust and water resistance, meaning it can survive being submerged under 1.5 meters of water for 30 minutes. I accidentally performed a drop test on concrete, though I thankfully had a matching green Pixelsnap case (more on that later), which protected the phone from scuffs and scratches, and I'm happy to report the screen did not crack. The phone arrives with Android 16 and the new Material 3 Expressive design overhaul, which revamps the look and feel of apps like the clock, weather and phone. It adds a welcome playfulness and springiness across the phone's functions, and lets you personalize everything from your phone's contacts to the lock screen, making them even more fun and versatile. There's a satisfying jiggle and haptic feedback when doing even mundane functions like swiping through open apps and adjusting the on-screen volume slider. The Pixel 10 comes with seven years of software and security updates. Like the Pixel 9, this year's model has a 6.3-inch OLED display with a 60-120Hz variable refresh rate. The Pixel 10's 3,000-nit peak brightness makes it easy to see what's on the screen even in direct sunlight. Being able to customize Quick Settings means I can instantly access commonly used functions like my mobile hotspot and Focus mode.  As for the camera bar, It's about as obtrusive as previous Pixel phones and definitely commands attention, but that's become the norm across many flagship devices. Slapping on a case helps to minimize that bump, but the ungainly protrusion is also the price you pay for great shots. Which leads us to the camera.
The Pixel 10 adds a handy 5x telephoto camera.  Celso Bulgatti/CNETPixel 10 cameras bring a triple-wow factorThe Pixel 10 Pro has a 48-megapixel wide-angle, 13-megapixel ultrawide and 10.8-megapixel 5x telephoto camera -- a new addition to the baseline version and one that places the Pixel 10 on par with the similarly priced Samsung Galaxy S25 when it comes to camera hardware. There's also a 10.5-megapixel front-facing camera.  There was no better place to test the telephoto lens for me than a garden, and it definitely delivered. The Pixel preserved details like the ombre pink petals of roses and the ridges of hydrangea leaves. The focus was nice and sharp.
5x optical zoom punches in nicely and preserves quality. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
I'm most impressed with the texture of the leaves in this 5x shot.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETSuper Res Zoom comes in handy for punching in even closer. It's certainly not comparable to an image taken at the lens' native 5x optical zoom; looking closely, you'll see an overall blurriness and lack of detail in the image. Punching in at 20x also pales in comparison to the 100x Pro Res Zoom feature on the Pixel 10 and 10 Pro XL. But I'm glad the baseline Pixel at least has something to offer in that realm for when you'd like a closer shot that doesn't look totally muddled.
We were enamored by this pink home, and Super Res Zoom helped us punch in. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETPortrait shots have long been my favorite camera feature on the Pixel lineup, and the Pixel 10 is no exception. This photo of my friend Raneem balances color, lighting and focus and has a nice smooth overtone.
Real friends agree to be your model, like Raneem was for this portrait shot.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETPerhaps my favorite photo I took on the Pixel 10 is this one of a golden sunset, which balances highlights and shadows for a stunning result.
I love how dramatic this shot looks, and the vividness of the orange-red sunset. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETLow-light images are pretty solid, too. I snapped these photos of my friend Dana soon after the sun dipped beyond the horizon. The first one triggered Night Sight to brighten the overall image, which especially helps to showcase the pink skies and waves in the background. The second image was taken with Portrait mode and helps to make her the focus, even if the background gets darkened as a result. I appreciate what each setting has to offer.
Night Sight helps to brighten the overall image, making the backdrop just as much a focus as the subject -- though Dana's face ends up being a bit more shadowy. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Portrait mode puts more of the focus on Dana. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETI like to think of myself as a pretty decent photographer, but I swallowed my pride and took the new Camera Coach feature for a spin. This uses Gemini models to give you a step-by-step walkthrough of how to take a more impressive shot. I had to carry on the Abrar tradition of photographing a teacup for this review, and Camera Coach walked me through how to take a more commanding image, prompting me to zoom in, position the cup slightly off-center and angle the camera to include less of the green couch in the background. Then I snapped the photo, and was pleased with the result. I think this is a great feature for anyone, but especially anyone who believes they're not suited to take good photos -- no more excuses for taking subpar pictures of someone! There are usually about four to five steps that take less than a minute to complete.
This is the picture Camera Coach told me to snap. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETWith the Pixel 10 series, Best Take becomes Auto Best Take. Snap a group photo and let AI create a merged photo where everyone is actually looking at the camera and smiling (before, you had to manually choose faces to combine across different shots). And you only have to tap the shutter button once, rather than making sure you're taking multiple photos.
Auto Best Take sifted through several images where CNET's Vanessa Hand Orellana and Patrick Holland weren't looking at the camera to automatically surface one where they're both looking their best. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETAdd Me uses augmented reality and AI to layer two separate shots so everyone can seemingly be in one photo. The photographer can snap an image, then jump in frame and have someone else take a second picture that merges the two, so it looks like everyone was standing together. (Think of it as a real-time "Photoshop me in.") The feature now works on bigger group photos and also gets better at recognizing gestures for a more natural-looking image. For example, if Person A holds their arm out and Person B stands in front for the second shot, Add Me will now understand that arm should be moved to the back, rather than awkwardly splayed across someone's torso. It's still not perfect, though. This shot of me and CNET's Patrick Holland has a cardboard-cutout quality to it that doesn't make it quite as convincing as just taking a normal photo, but it's still a neat feature for when no one's around to take your group picture.
Patrick and I were not actually standing next to each other, but Add Me tried to make it look like we are. Abrar Al-Heeti/Patrick Holland/CNETAnd if you'd like a good laugh, Add Me is a great way to clone someone, as we did here with Patrick, who is clearly having a very deep conversation with himself.
Sometimes, you just have to talk things out with yourself. (Patrick on the couch tragically appears to have lost his feet.) Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETAI galore, with a lens for practicalityAI features are baked into just about everything on the Pixel 10. The phone is powered by a Tensor G5 chip, which runs the newest Gemini Nano model for on-device generative AI capabilities. Voice Translate is certainly one of the most impressive generative AI features I've seen on a phone. If you're on a call and the person on the other line is speaking in a different language, it'll translate what that person is saying while mimicking the sound of their voice, rather than superimposing a robotic one. I tried it out with CNET's Vanessa Hand Orellana, and she agreed it did a decent job correctly translating the vast majority of what she was saying in Spanish into English -- although it occasionally gave her an accent, despite her not having one when speaking English in real life. Voice Translate currently supports translations from English to Spanish, German, Japanese, Italian, French, Portuguese, Swedish, Russian, Indonesian and Hindi.Magic Cue is one of Google's latest AI tricks. It's designed to automatically suggest information and actions related to what you're doing or saying. For instance, if someone texts you asking for the dinner reservation information for tonight, it'll automatically surface those details for you to send, pulling from sources like your Calendar or Gmail. If you call your airline and have an upcoming flight, that booking information should also pop up. It takes some time for Magic Cue to process all the information across your Google apps, so in my limited review window, I had a mix of successes and failures. It pulled up my flight information when a friend texted to ask for it and my Monday night dinner reservation when prompted, "Where was the dinner yesterday?", but it wasn't able to surface my United booking when calling the airline, since I'd booked it a while back. It also struggled with some text message prompts like "What time is the meeting today," sometimes simply showing a "View Calendar" popup and other times nothing at all. This should improve with time, and I'll share more once it's really up and running, but it's one of the features I think could be most handy should it live up to Google's promises.
Magic Cue automatically pulled up my flight details when a friend asked about my arrival.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETDaily Hub gives an overview of upcoming events, a weather breakdown and recommended videos. It succinctly summarized my Tuesday by noting, "You have a content planning meeting and are watching Harry Potter later today." I found the personalized recommendations to be much more useful than Samsung's version of this, called the Now Brief, which, in my experience, consistently serves up articles that have nothing to do with my interests. Daily Hub, on the other hand, suggests Conan O'Brien YouTube videos and Taylor Swift playlists, offering a peek at just how well Google can get to know you through your use of its many services and platforms. Pixel Studio is an example of a neat feature I'll probably never use. You can prompt AI to generate whatever you'd like in an image; I swapped the view outside my window to a beach view that certainly doesn't exist. I'm still not sure about the purpose of features like this, but it's at least fun to play with and sure beats the billboard for cremation services that's actually outside my apartment. You'll also find features that have essentially become staples on Android phones, like Gemini Live, which lets you have a back-and-forth conversation with the AI model, and Circle to Search, which can instantly pull up more information about anything on your screen with a couple of taps. I often use Circle to Search to find links to products I see and like on Instagram, for instance. Overall, the Pixel 10's AI features feel mostly practical and useful, and flex the power and convenience of Google's ecosystem.Battery life and storageThe Pixel 10 gets a battery boost to 4,970mAh, up from 4,700mAh on the Pixel 9. It's an impressive capacity for a standard-size phone. (In comparison, the Galaxy S25 has a 4,000-mAh battery.) After a full day of texting, navigating, scrolling through TikTok, calling an Uber, sending emails and snapping pictures, my Pixel 10 dropped from full charge at 10:36 a.m. to 49% exactly 12 hours later.In CNET's 45-minute endurance test, which involves a combination of streaming, scrolling through social media, joining a video call and playing games, the Pixel 10's battery went from full to 96%. In a longer, 3-hour streaming test over Wi-Fi, in which I watched a YouTube video in full-screen mode at full brightness, the Pixel dropped from 100% to 82%.The Pixel 10 supports 30-watt fast charging. In a 30-minute charging test, the phone went from 0% to 54%, and reached a full charge in 85 minutes.The phone also supports Qi2 wireless charging. Magnets embedded in the Pixel make it easier to snap on wireless chargers, stands and other accessories as part of a system Google calls Pixelsnap -- essentially its own take on the iPhone's MagSafe connector. (And yes, MagSafe accessories are compatible with Pixelsnap.)The Pixel 10 comes with 12GB of RAM and either 128GB ($799) or 256GB ($899) of storage.
The Pixel 10 proved to be a trusty device with minimal compromises.  Celso Bulgatti/CNETFinal thoughts: Should you buy the Pixel 10?The Pixel 10 is a baseline phone that borrows from its pricier Pro counterparts by packing an impressive triple camera system, long-lasting battery and plenty of AI capabilities. I'm thrilled the price didn't go up compared to last year's model, but $799 is still a decent chunk of change. Thankfully, the Pixel 10 proves its value from a hardware and software standpoint, notably by baking in AI in a way that feels intuitive rather than overly flashy, even if there are still some hiccups.  Does that mean you should upgrade? If you have a Pixel 8 or 9, you're probably fine holding onto your device for a few more years. But if you have an older phone, the AI integrations and upgrades across the camera, battery and processor may make the switch worthwhile. The Pixel 10 Pro and 10 Pro XL are appealing options for photography enthusiasts and anyone looking for a slightly higher-end device. But for anyone wanting to save several hundred dollars, the Pixel 10 makes for a convincing choice with many of the same features and minimal compromises. Pixel 10 vs. Pixel 9 vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 vs. Pixel 10 Pro vs. Pixel 10 Pro XL
Google Pixel 10Google Pixel 9Samsung Galaxy S25Google Pixel 10 ProGoogle Pixel 10 Pro XLDisplay size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,424x1,080 pixels; 60 to 120 Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,424x1,080 pixels; 60-120 Hz variable refresh rate6.2-inch AMOLED; 2,340x1,080 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.3-inch LTPO OLED; 2,856x1,280 pixels; 1 to 120Hz variable refresh rate6.8-inch LTPO OLED; 2,992x1,344 pixels; 1 to 120Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 422 ppi422 ppi416 ppi495 ppi486 ppiDimensions (inches) 6 x 2.8 x 0.3 in6 x 2.8 x 0.3 in5.78 x 2.78 x 0.28 in.6 x 2.8 x 0.3 in6.4 x 3 x 0.3 inDimensions (millimeters) 152.8 x 72 x 8.5 mm152.8 x 72 x 8.5 mm146.9 x 70.5 x 7.2 mm152.8 x 72 x 8.5 mm162.8 x 76.6 x 8.5 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 204 g (7.2 oz)198g (7 oz)162g (5.71 oz.)207 g (7.3 oz)232 g (8.2 oz)Mobile software Android 16Android 14Android 15Android 16Android 16Camera 48-megapixel (wide), 13-megapixel (ultrawide), 10.8-megapixel (5x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide)50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto)Front-facing camera 10.5-megapixel10.5-megapixel12-megapixel 42-megapixel42-megapixelVideo capture 4K4K8K8K8KProcessor Google Tensor G5Google Tensor G4Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyGoogle Tensor G5Google Tensor G5RAM + storage 12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB16GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB16GB RAM + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneBattery 4,970 mAh4,700 mAh4,000 mAh4,870 mAh5,200 mAhFingerprint sensor Under displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displayConnector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Gorilla Glass 2 Victus cover glass; 3,000 nits peak brightness; Satellite SOS; Dual-eSIM; Wi-Fi 6E; NFC; Bluetooth 6; 30W fast charging (wall charger not included); Qi2 15W wireless charging; support for PixelSnap magnetic accessories; Google VPN; Super Res Zoom up to 20x; Camera Coach; Add Me; Macro mode; Face Unblur; Auto Best Take; IP68 rating for dust and water resistance; 7 years of OS, security, and Pixel Drop updates; Corning Gorilla Glass Victus 2 polished back with satin finish aluminum frameSatellite SOS; 7 years of OS, security and Pixel feature drops; Gorilla Glass Victus 2 cover glass; IP68 dust and water resistance; 2,700-nit peak brightness; 27W fast charging (charger not included); 15W wireless charging with Google Pixel Stand (second gen); 12W wireless Qi-charging; Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 7; NFC; Bluetooth 5.3; dual-SIM (eSIM + nano SIM); Add Me; Best Take; Magic Eraser; Magic Editor2,600-nit peak brightness; 7 years of OS and security updates; 5G (mmWave); IP68 water and dust resistance; wireless PowerShare to charge other devices; 25W wired charging (charger not included); Galaxy AI; Wi-Fi 7Gorilla Glass 2 Victus cover glass; 3,300 nits peak brightness; Satellite SOS; Dual-eSIM; Wi-Fi 7; NFC; Bluetooth 6; 30W fast charging (wall charger not included); Qi2 15W wireless charging; support for PixelSnap magnetic accessories; Google VPN; Pro Res zoom up to 100x; Camera Coach; Add Me; Macro mode; Face Unblur; Auto Best Take; High-Res Portrait mode; IP68 rating for dust and water resistance; 7 years of OS, security, and Pixel Drop updates; Corning Gorilla GlassVictus 2 silky matte back with polished finish aluminum frame; ultrawideband chipGorilla Glass 2 Victus cover glass; 3,300 nits peak brightness; Satellite SOS; Dual-eSIM; Wi-Fi 7; NFC; Bluetooth 6; 45W fast charging (wall charger not included); Qi2.2 25W wireless charging; support for PixelSnap magnetic accessories; Google VPN; Pro Res zoom up to 100x; Camera Coach; Add Me; Macro mode; Face Unblur; Auto Best Take; High-Res Portrait mode; IP68 rating for dust and water resistance; 7 years of OS, security, and Pixel Drop updates; Corning Gorilla GlassVictus 2 silky matte back with polished finish aluminum frame; ultrawideband chipUS price starts at $799 (128GB)$799 (128GB)$800 (128GB)$999 (128GB)$1,199 (256GB)UK price starts at TBDConverts to £640 (128GB)£799 (128GB)TBDTBDAustralia price starts at TBDConverts to AU$1,210 (128GB)AU$1,399 (256GB)TBDTBD
How we test phonesEvery phone CNET's reviews team tests is used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions, from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode, and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily, as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
ABRAR AL-HEETI
Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.