ABC Pulls Jimmy Kimmel Off the Air 'Indefinitely'
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
ABC suspends Jimmy Kimmel's show 'indefinitely' over his Charlie Kirk comments after FCC chair's threats
By
Katherine Li
,
Kelsey Vlamis
, and
Lucia Moses
Jimmy Kimmel's show was suspended.
Araya Doheny/WireImage
2025-09-18T00:36:18Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
ABC has pulled Jimmy Kimmel's show indefinitely after comments on Charlie Kirk's death.
Kimmel's comments about Kirk drew backlash, including condemnation from FCC chair Brendan Carr.
An ABC spokesperson confirmed to Business Insider that the show would be pre-empted "indefinitely."
ABC said it pulled Jimmy Kimmel off the air "indefinitely" over his comments about Charlie Kirk's killing, in a move that raised questions about how far is too far for a comedian in 2025.
The suspension is the latest example of a company taking action against an employee following comments that were critical of the circumstances around the conservative activist's killing. Hours earlier, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission had slammed Kimmel's remarks and threatened ABC.On Monday's show, Kimmel made pointed remarks about President Donald Trump and Kirk's killing.
"We had some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them," Kimmel said.According to charging documents cited by CNN, the alleged killer's mother said he "had started to lean more to the left — becoming more pro-gay and trans-rights oriented."Kimmel also mocked Trump's response to a reporter's question about how he was holding up after Kirk's death. During Trump's answer, the president quickly pivoted to talking about the construction of the White House's new ballroom.
"This is not how an adult grieves the murder of somebody he called a friend," Kimmel said on his Monday show. "This is how a four-year-old mourns a goldfish."Kimmel hosts "Jimmy Kimmel Live!," which premiered in 2003. Until this suspension, he was the longest-serving late-night host currently on the air. He's hosted the Primetime Emmy and Academy Awards multiple times.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Disney-owned ABC's decision came after pressure from both the FCC and a prominent company that owns ABC affiliate stations, Nexstar. Affiliate stations carry ABC programming under contract but aren't owned by the network itself.
FCC chair Brendan Carr publicly condemned Kimmel's comments, calling them "the sickest conduct possible." In an interview with YouTuber Benny Johnson, Carr also warned that broadcast licenses could come under review, and that broadcasters are required to operate "in the public interest."Nexstar subsequently issued a statement saying it would pull Kimmel from the ABC stations it owned, citing his Kirk comments."I want to thank Nexstar for doing the right thing," Carr said in a statement to Business Insider after the news that ABC had pulled the show. "Local broadcasters have an obligation to serve the public interest. While this may be an unprecedented decision, it is important for broadcasters to push back on Disney programming that they determine falls short of community values. I hope that other broadcasters follow Nexstar's lead."
Some context: Nexstar is seeking FCC approval for its $6.2 billion mega deal to acquire TEGNA. The deal would include 13 ABC stations and make Nexstar by far the country's biggest local TV station owner. The FCC would have to raise the 39% ownership cap to let the deal advance.Sinclair, another major company that owns ABC affiliate stations, said it would not lift the suspension of Kimmel's show on its networks "until formal discussions are held with ABC regarding the network's commitment to professionalism and accountability." It also called on Kimmel to issue a direct apology to the Kirk family, and make a "meaningful personal donation to the Kirk Family and Turning Point USA."The pressure campaign that preceded Kimmel's suspension highlights the government's considerable power to regulate broadcast networks like ABC, as opposed to cable TV and streaming platforms.
Trump cheered the news of the suspension on Truth Social:"Great News for America: The ratings challenged Jimmy Kimmel Show is CANCELLED. Congratulations to ABC for finally having the courage to do what had to be done. Kimmel has ZERO talent, and worse ratings than even Colbert, if that's possible. That leaves Jimmy and Seth, two total losers, on Fake News NBC. Their ratings are also horrible. Do it NBC!!! President DJT."The suspension is the latest twist in the culture wars following Kirk's death. Voices on the right have decried certain reactions to Kirk's killing as heartless and horrifying, and others have said such contentions themselves are a form of speech suppression. Meanwhile, defenders of such comments say people on the right who once criticized cancel culture are practicing it.Some in Hollywood spoke out in support of Kimmel on social media.
The Writers Guild of America West and East said it stood with Kimmel and his writers and against those who oppose free speech. "Shame on those in government who forget this founding truth. As for our employers, our words have made you rich. Silencing us impoverishes the whole world.""This isn't right," Ben Stiller wrote."This is the actual cancel culture everyone claims to hate so much," Alex Edelman of "The Paper" wrote.
Several Democratic lawmakers did the same."Everybody across the political spectrum should be speaking out to stop what's happening to Jimmy Kimmel," Senator Chuck Schumer wrote. Senators Ed Markey and Adam Schiff similarly supported the comedian and expressed outrage at the suspension.Kimmel's suspension comes a few months after the controversy around the cancellation of Stephen Colbert's late-night show in July. At the time, CBS executives said the move was "purely a financial decision against a challenging backdrop in late night." Some lawmakers raised concerns that the cancellation could have had a political motivation, noting Colbert had just called out CBS's parent, Paramount, for settling Trump's lawsuit over "60 Minutes" for $16 million. Paramount won the FCC's approval to merge with Skydance later that month.
Recommended video
ABC
Disney
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account