Starbucks to Close Some North American Stores, Lay Off 900 Employees
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Retail
Starbucks to close some North American stores, lay off 900 non-retail employees
By
Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert
Starbucks headquarters in Seattle.
REUTERS/David Ryder
2025-09-25T11:35:22Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Starbucks on Thursday announced it would close some of its company-operated stores in North America.
The closures will represent about 1% of those stores.
The company also announced it would lay off 900 non-retail employees.
Starbucks on Thursday announced it would close many of its North American stores in addition to sweeping layoffs.
The closures will target locations where Starbucks has found it is "unable to create the physical environment our customers and partners expect" or where it doesn't "see a path to financial performance," according to a statement published by the company.The company said it was only closing company-operated stores, of which it had 11,453 as of June 29, 2025. While the exact number of stores to be closed remains unclear, the closures will represent about 1% of those stores.
Starbucks ended its 2024 fiscal year with 18,424 open stores in North America, including 7,281 licensed storefronts, which aren't affected by the announcement. It will end fiscal year 2025 — which ends on September 29 — with 18,300 open stores across the continent, per the company's announcement.Starbucks staff in affected stores will be notified of the changes this week, with efforts made to transfer employees in closing stores to open locations nearby, the company said. Where transfers cannot be made, employees will be eligible for severance packages, the company added.In a statement provided to Business Insider, a spokesperson for Starbucks Workers United, which represents 12,000 baristas across 45 states and Washington, DC, said the union would bargain with the company to ensure those affected are assigned to new stores in accordance with their preferences.
"Fixing what's broken at Starbucks isn't possible without centering the people who engage with the company's customers day in and day out," the statement said.According to an SEC filing released Thursday, the restructuring, which was approved by the Starbucks board of directors on Tuesday, will cost the company around $1 billion.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The filing shows that roughly $150 million in expenses will be related to employee separation benefits, a further $400 million related to the disposal of store assets from closed locations, and about $450 million in costs related to early lease terminations at affected stores.
The company said that, beginning in fiscal year 2026, it will continue to grow the number of coffeehouses it operates and refurbish more than 1,000 existing locations as it continues to invest in the business.In addition to the store closures, the company announced that about 900 non-retail employees will be laid off on Friday. It also announced it would offer severance packages in addition to benefits extensions to affected employees."I believe these steps are necessary to build a better, stronger, and more resilient Starbucks that deepens its impact on the world and creates more opportunities for our partners, suppliers, and the communities we serve," CEO Brian Niccol said in a statement about the changes.
Thursday's announcement is the second round of layoffs for Starbucks employees this year. Business Insider previously reported the company laid off 1,100 corporate staffers in February.Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert at ktl@businessinsider.com or Signal at byktl.50. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Starbucks
Layoffs
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account