UI/IX Design Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
UI/IX Design
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
10 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article A Radio Button Shopping Cart Trick
animation forms UI/IX Design
A Radio Button Shopping Cart Trick
Here's an approach for animating products added to a shopping cart that handles an infinite number of items using a variation of the ol' Checkbox Hack.
Preethi
on
Aug 27, 2025
Direct link to the article Getting Creative With Images in Long-Form Content
images UI/IX Design
Getting Creative With Images in Long-Form Content
Images in long-form content can (and often should) do more than illustrate. They help set the pace, influence how readers feel, and add character that words alone can’t always convey.
Andy Clarke
on
Aug 25, 2025
Direct link to the article Thinking Deeply About Theming and Color Naming
color UI/IX Design
Thinking Deeply About Theming and Color Naming
Today, I want to discuss a couple of patterns for naming color palettes that the community is using, and how I propose we can improve, so we achieve both flexibility and beauty.
Zell Liew
on
Aug 4, 2025
Direct link to the article Getting Clarity on Apple’s Liquid Glass
apple design systems Graphic Design UI/IX Design
Getting Clarity on Apple’s Liquid Glass
Gathered notes on Liquid Glass, Apple’s new design language that was introduced at WWDC 2025. These links are a choice selection of posts and resources that I've found helpful for understanding the context of Liquid Glass, as well as techniques for recreating it in code.
Geoff Graham
on
Jul 17, 2025
Direct link to the article Next Level CSS Styling for Cursors
inspiration UI/IX Design
Next Level CSS Styling for Cursors
Custom cursors with CSS are great, but we can take things to the next level with JavaScript. Using JavaScript, we can transition between cursor states, place dynamic text within the cursor, apply complex animations, and apply filters.
Declan Chidlow
on
Apr 14, 2025
Direct link to the article Smashing Meets Product Design
interview UI/IX Design
Smashing Meets Product Design
I had the pleasure of hosting a recent Smashing Magazine workshop on product design, subbing for Vitaly Friedman who usually runs these things.
What? A front-ender interviewing really smart people about their processes for user research, documenting requirements, and …
Geoff Graham
on
Dec 10, 2024
Direct link to the article Come to the light-dark() Side
dark mode functions UI/IX Design
Come to the light-dark() Side
Dark mode interfaces have matured a lot in the past few years. We all know the "traditional" approach using media queries but in this article, Sara Joy demonstrates modern CSS features that make respecting user color scheme preferences pretty darn easy.
Sara Joy
on
Oct 29, 2024
Direct link to the article Close, Exit, Cancel: How to End User Interactions Well
copywriting UI/IX Design
Close, Exit, Cancel: How to End User Interactions Well
What’s in a word? Actions. In the realm of user interfaces, a word is construed as the telltale of a control’s action. Sometimes it points us in the correct direction, and sometimes it leads us astray. We talk a lot …
Preethi
on
Oct 16, 2024
Direct link to the article The Proliferation and Problem of the ✨ Sparkles ✨ Icon
icons UI/IX Design
The Proliferation and Problem of the ✨ Sparkles ✨ Icon
Kate Kaplan hits on something over at Nielsen Norman Group’s blog that’s been bugging me:
The challenge with this icon is sparkle ambiguity: Participants in our recent research study generally agreed that it represented something a little special…
Geoff Graham
on
Oct 3, 2024
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top