Introducing Collectives™: Communities within Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Looking for help?
Communities for your favorite technologies
Collectives™ helps you find trusted answers faster, connect with subject matter experts from the community, and share knowledge around the technologies you use most.
Join a collective
Areas of practice, technology, and provider organizations already on Collectives:
CI/CD
21k members
Join
A collective where developers focused on continuous integration, delivery, and deployment can find, share, and learn about simultaneous development.
AWS
36k members
Join
A collective for developers who utilize Amazon Web Services' infrastructure and platform capabilities. The AWS Collective is organized and managed by the Stack Overflow community as a resource for developers.
Mobile Development
25k members
Join
A collective for developers who want to share their knowledge and learn more about mobile development practices and platforms
PHP
16k members
Join
A collective where developers working with PHP can learn and connect about the open source scripting language.
NLP
11k members
Join
A collective focused on NLP (natural language processing), the transformation or extraction of useful information from natural language data.
Google Cloud
65k members
Join
A collective for developers who utilize Google Cloud’s infrastructure and platform capabilities. This collective is organized and managed by the Stack Overflow community.
View all 8 Collectives
Collectives works for you
Make your job easier with Collectives on Stack Overflow.
Trust the source
·
See the full picture
·
More than Q&A
·
Get recognized
Find trusted answers, fast
Stop testing multiple solutions to your questions.
Find the
answers recommended or provided by subject matter experts from the community or who build and support a company's technology.
0 Votes
4 Answers
How to flatten frequencies in Audio Bubble?
Answer
Answer recommended by Audio Bubble
View full answer
Sam Wright
Recognized by Audio Bubble
Find information about technologies that interest you in one place
There’s no need to review multiple tag pages.
The Collectives page provides a centralized view of questions and answers and content using tags associated with an area of technical practice or an organization’s technology.
Pinned articles
Welcome to Audio Bubble
Questions
Are there webhook integrations with Audio Bubble?
Answer
About collective
Recognized Members
Top Tags
Engage with new content formats
Because some topics require more than Q&A.
Find in-depth knowledge on a topic or product with technical how-to guides and knowledge Articles, and get timely, relevant updates with Bulletins.
Knowledge article
Introduction to Audio Bubble Graph API
How-to-guide
How to suggest a good article
More from Audio Bubble Collective
Are there webhook integrations with Audio Bubble?
How to flatten frequencies in Audio Bubble?
How do I get oAuth2 to work with Audio Bubble 3.0 SDK?
Earn recognition
Consider yourself an expert on Google Cloud? Think you know the most about Go Language?
Earn a Recognized Member designation from the Admins of a Collective and/or your favorite technology companies. See your answers recommended and check where you rank on the Collectives leaderboard.
Sam Wright
This user is first on the weekly Audio Bubble collective leaderboard
Recognized by Audio Bubble
Collective members
Search
Dan Smith
Penina Austin
Janelle Hunter
Answer
Answer recommended by Audio Bubble
Here’s what people are saying about Collectives on Stack Overflow
I think both businesses and developers will benefit from Collectives because they make it easier to connect and keep in touch. Developers have been coming together and helping each other on the Stack Overflow platform for a long time. With Collectives, companies can now also become part of this active community.
Martin Spickermann
Senior Software Developer at Shopify
I’m most excited about the Recognized Member feature. Beyond reputation, I think the Recognized Member badge can more accurately reflect a user’s expertise in a domain. Endorsement by a Recognized Member can also help to increase the visibility of new, better, but not highly voted answers to old questions, encouraging developers to take a closer look before just adopting the highest voted answer.
Benjamin W.
Stack Overflow user
You have questions. We have answers.
Explore content from the Help Center.
What is Collectives™ on Stack Overflow?
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow are dedicated spaces where developers can find content that’s organized around an area of technical practice or a technology provider's product suite. Read more on the Help Center
What is a recommended answer?
A recommended answer helps users quickly and easily identify the best solution to a question. Answers are recommended by subject matter experts who have been designated as Recognized Members of a collective. Learn more about recommended answers
What are the different types of users in a Collective?
Within Collectives, there are 4 Collective-specific user types: Member, Recognized Member, Admin, Employee. More about the user types
How do you determine which tags are included in a Collective?
Collective tags are based on technologies that are part of certain areas of practice or a technology provider’s product suite. Read more about tags
How do I join a Collective?
Anybody with a Stack Overflow account can join a collective! Visit a collective’s page (by clicking on the collectives badge on a question page) and press the “Join collective” button. The collective will now show up in the left sidebar. Join a collective
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943