postdoctoral researcher job with Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab | 12845096
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
postdoctoral researcher
Employer
Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab
Location
Piscataway, New Jersey
Salary
Salary is from $63,000 and commensurate with experience.
Closing date
21 Nov 2025
Website
https://sites.rutgers.edu/shumyatsky-lab/
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Life Science
Job Type
Postdoctoral
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Postdoctoral Position: Molecular Mechanisms and Neural Circuits of Fear Memory, Maternal and Social Behavior
Rutgers University, New Jersey, USA, laboratory of Dr. Gleb Shumyatsky.
A key question in research on memory and behavior is how the brain responds to environmental stimuli, and a major challenge here is the heterogeneity of cell-signaling pathways, brain cells and neural networks. We study activity-dependent molecular processes in the amygdala-, hippocampus- and prefrontal cortex-associated networks at the level of neural circuits and single cells using mouse genetics. Our focus is on fear memory, anxiety, social and maternal behavior as well as autism- and depressive-like behaviors in a mouse.
Our recent work has identified dynamic changes in microtubules during memory encoding (Uchida et al., Nature Communications 2014; Martel et al., Journal of Neuroscience 2016). We also described epigenetic modifications and new gene targets of CREB-dependent transcription following learning (Uchida et al., Cell Reports 2017). More recently, we have found a molecular pathway regulating dopamine function during stress-enhanced fear extinction (Morishita et al, Molecular Psychiatry 2024).
The successful candidate will have a recent PhD in molecular biology or neuroscience and a track record of first-class science demonstrated by first-author peer-reviewed scientific articles. Expected experience is in molecular biology (strong background in cloning, mutagenesis, immunoprecipitation, RNAseq and mouse genetics), neural circuits and mouse behavior. Salary is from $63,000 and commensurate with experience.
Please send your CV, a brief statement of research interests and three references to gleb@hginj.rutgers.edu
Rutgers is located in central New Jersey, one hour away from New York City and Philadelphia, and enjoys a diverse international academic and cultural community.
Applications will be immediately reviewed until the position is filled.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for postdoctoral researcher
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow – Epithelial Biology and Immunology
New York City, New York
Post-doctoral fellow recruitment to Weill Cornell Medicine, New York City: Immunology
New York City, New York (US)
Postdoctoral Research Scientist
New York City, New York (US)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software