Best Solar Batteries of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Energy & Utilities Solar
Best Solar Batteries of 2025
A good solar battery doesn’t just save energy — it saves the day when the lights go out. Check out CNET’s favorite picks for reliable backup power.
Bluetti EP900 Best overall
Explore with Bluetti
Tesla Powerwall 3 Best well-rounded battery
Explore with Tesla
Enphase IQ Battery 5P Best lower capacity battery
Explore with Enphase
Generac PWRcell Best modular battery
Explore with Generac
SolarEdge Home Battery Best warranty
Explore with SolarEdge
SOLAR DEALS OF THE WEEK
Jackery Explorer 300 293Wh Portable Power Station With Solar Panel:  $299 (save $499)
Renogy 200W 24V N-Type Solar Panel:  $170 (save $200)
Zoupw 100W 20V Portable Foldable Solar Panel:  $108 (save $140) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Solar Batteries of 2025
What is the best solar battery overall?
Best solar batteries of 2025
How do solar batteries work?
Pros and cons of solar batteries
How to choose the best solar battery for your home
How much does a solar battery cost?
Other batteries we reviewed
Home batteries can help you through a blackout
How we evaluated the best solar batteries
Solar battery FAQs
What is the best solar battery overall?With longer days and Earth Day around the corner, spring is a great time to rethink how your home uses energy. If your solar panels are soaking up more sunlight than you can use, it might be time to pair them with a battery that stores that extra power. After reviewing dozens of solar batteries, CNET has named the Bluetti EP900 Home Battery Backup as the best pick for 2025, bumping the Tesla Powerwall from the top spot. It impressed us with strong performance, a solid warranty, a modular design and clear pricing. But keep in mind, this ranking is based on backup power use. The EP900 could be a great fit for your home but it really depends on your specific energy needs.Storing your own clean energy can help you avoid peak electricity rates, lower your reliance on the grid and stay powered during blackouts. While utilities may credit you for excess energy through net metering, a battery gives you more control over when and how you use that power.
Can solar panels save you money?
Interested in understanding the impact solar can have on your home? Enter some basic information below, and we’ll instantly provide a free estimate of your energy savings.
According to a recent report, most people are interested in home batteries to save money -- not just for backup. With prices coming down, that’s becoming easier. In 2024, the US added 30 gigawatts of utility-scale solar and that number is expected to grow in 2025 along with record battery storage capacity. CNET’s team spent hours combing through spec sheets and talking to experts to find the best batteries for backup use. Because this is a major purchase, take your time and explore all your options -- even the ones that didn’t make our list.Best solar batteries of 2025
7.5
SCORE
How we score solar panels, products, and services.
Hands-on testing of solar equipment and companies is difficult. We examine technical specifications, talk with companies and consider customer reviews to find the best product available.
Read our methodology page
Bluetti EP900 Best overall
The EP900 Home Battery's powerful and modular design gives it a boost over the competition. The system offers three capacity options and an impressive 9 kW of output at any size. The price is available on Bluetti's website, so there's no guessing involved. But it's not the most efficient.
Performance 6 / 10 Warranty 8 / 10 Capacity & Modularity 9 / 10
Explore with Bluetti
Pros and Cons
Pros High power outputGood warrantyModular designPrice transparency
Cons Lower round-trip efficiencyLower depth of discharge
Product details
The EP900 system is an inverter stacked on top of Bluetti's B500 battery units. Capacity depends on how many B500 units you install -- about 9 kWh with two units, up to 39.6kWh if you install an additional system. The EP900's power output shines -- 9kW at any capacity size, or 18 kW with two systems. It's backed by a 10-year warranty with an 80% end-of-warranty capacity guarantee. We found this battery to be slightly cheaper than similar options, and pricing information is clearly displayed on Bluetti's website. It has lower depth of discharge (90%) and round-trip efficiency ratings (85%) than peers.
Show more details
7.4
SCORE
How we score solar panels, products, and services.
Hands-on testing of solar equipment and companies is difficult. We examine technical specifications, talk with companies and consider customer reviews to find the best product available.
Read our methodology page
Tesla Powerwall 3 Best well-rounded battery
Read full review
The Tesla Powerwall 3 is a big improvement from the Powerwall 2. The Powerwall 3 keeps the same 13.5 kWh capacity and warranty as Powerwall 2, but nearly doubles its power output (11.5 kW). The Powerwall still falls short in modularity, price transparency and customer support. It's only available in one size.
Performance 8 / 10 Warranty 10 / 10 Capacity & Modularity 6 / 10
Explore with Tesla
Pros and Cons
Pros Unlimited cycle warrantyWell-rounded performance and efficiency
Cons Limited modularityCustomer support options
Product details
One Powerwall holds 13.5kWh, which is great to get you started. But if you need more capacity, you'll have to buy another Powerwall. Tesla says the Powerall's 3 warranty is the same as the Powerwall 2. If that's the case, the Powerwall 3 should have an unlimited cycle warranty. The power output of the Powerwall 3 is a significant improvement from previous models, with a continuous power output of 11.5 kW. Its round-trip efficiency is 89%, which is pretty standard. Tesla's customer support options and customer service reputation leave more to be desired.
Show more details
7.3
SCORE
How we score solar panels, products, and services.
Hands-on testing of solar equipment and companies is difficult. We examine technical specifications, talk with companies and consider customer reviews to find the best product available.
Read our methodology page
Enphase IQ Battery 5P Best lower capacity battery
Read full review
The IQ Battery 5P is a big step up from Enphase's previous models. It's a small 5 kWh battery that packs a lot of power. Enphase also offers some of the most robust customer support options that we've seen. But the battery falls a bit short in price transparency and modularity.
Performance 7.5 / 10 Warranty 7 / 10 Capacity & Modularity 6.5 / 10
Explore with Enphase
Pros and Cons
Pros High power outputPlenty of options for customer supportSolid performance specsLower price
Cons Lacks a modular designNot price transparent
Product details
The Enphase IQ Battery 5P is a 5 kWh battery that offers a lot of power. Its peak power is 7.68 kW and you'll get 3.84 kW of continuous power per battery. The IQ Battery 5P has solid round-trip efficiency (90%) and depth of discharge (98%) ratings. Enphase also offers a plethora of customer support options, including live chat and 24/7 availability.
The battery comes with a 15-year warranty. The battery itself isn't a modular design either. This means you'll have to buy separate batteries in multiples of 5 kWhs to get the capacity you want.
Show more details
7.2
SCORE
How we score solar panels, products, and services.
Hands-on testing of solar equipment and companies is difficult. We examine technical specifications, talk with companies and consider customer reviews to find the best product available.
Read our methodology page
Generac PWRcell Best modular battery
Read full review
If it's modularity you're after, the Generac Pwrcell is a worthy choice. The Pwrcell has a battery cabinet that contains small battery modules. The system's round-trip efficiency is high as well. Generac also offers plenty of options for customer support. But the Pwrcell's depth of discharge, warranty and price transparency could be better.
Performance 6 / 10 Warranty 5 / 10 Capacity & Modularity 9.5 / 10
Explore with Generac
Pros and Cons
Pros Modular designGood performance and efficiencyPlenty of customer support options
Cons Low depth of dischargeLack of price transparency
Product details
The Pwrcell battery is sold as a cabinet containing individual battery modules that can incrementally increase your battery capacity. One battery cabinet holds between 9 and 18kWh. Capacity is expandable in increments of 3kWh, making upgrades easy. You can install up to two cabinets for a total of 36kWh.
The Pwrcell offers high round-trip efficiency (96.5%) but falls short on depth of discharge (84%). Generac also offers plenty of options to reach out for customer support, including 24 hour availability. The Pwrcell's warranty is a bit lackluster, but not horrible. There's no price listed publicly either, so you'll have to rely on estimates from installers.
Show more details
7.1
SCORE
How we score solar panels, products, and services.
Hands-on testing of solar equipment and companies is difficult. We examine technical specifications, talk with companies and consider customer reviews to find the best product available.
Read our methodology page
SolarEdge Home Battery Best warranty
Read full review
The SolarEdge Home Battery is very well-rounded in its performance. But where it stands out is its unlimited cycle warranty and high round-trip efficiency. It falls a bit behind in modularity, price transparency and customer support options.
Performance 7.5 / 10 Warranty 10 / 10 Capacity & Modularity 4 / 10
Explore with SolarEdge
Pros and Cons
Pros Excellent warrantyHigh round-trip efficiencyWell-rounded performance
Cons Lacking customer support optionsNot price transparentLacking modularity
Product details
The SolarEdge Home Battery has 9.7 kWh of usable capacity and is a very well-rounded battery overall. What puts it above other batteries is its unlimited cycle warranty and high round-trip efficiency (94.5%). It also has a 100% depth of discharge. The power output of the SolarEdge Home Battery is standard, which is fine. It has a peak output of 7.5 kW and a continuous output of 5 kW.
The battery isn't modular, so if you need a capacity upgrade, you'll have to buy another 9.7 kWh battery. We also didn't see many options for customer support or information about price.
Show more details
How do solar batteries work?A solar battery's main function is to store excess electricity generated by your solar panels. If you have a solar battery installed, extra electricity from your solar panels goes into storage so you can use that energy later. This stored energy can be used to power your home during periods of inefficient electricity generation, like at night or during cloudy weather. Batteries also provide other benefits that you don't even need solar panels for. You can store energy in your battery to use during power outages, or use it to help offset expensive electricity rates.Pros and cons of solar batteriesJust like solar panels, solar batteries come with their own set of pros and cons. A solar battery can help you lower your electricity costs, provide protection against power outages and lessen your reliance on the power grid. They're also very expensive, sometimes costing as much as solar panels themselves. Depending on your solar system size and what areas of your home you're looking to back up, you might need more than one battery.Pros:Backup power during outagesOffset high electricity costsLess reliant on the power gridEasier monitoring of your energy consumption Cons:Very expensiveYou might need to buy multiple batteriesHow to choose the best solar battery for your homeYour budget is likely the biggest factor at play when choosing a battery but there's much more to look for in a battery beyond its price tag. You'll want a battery that can match your household's energy use and has enough output to support the electrical loads in your home that you want to back up during an outage. Keep in mind what exactly you plan to use your battery for. Some batteries are better for backup purposes and others are better for electricity offset and virtual power plant participation. You should consider modular batteries. These battery designs make it easier to upgrade your energy storage capacity later and they tend to be easier to install. They also allow you to better monitor the health of individual battery modules, making it easier to replace a smaller component rather than the whole battery. Because solar batteries are expensive, you should also compare battery warranties. A lithium-ion-based solar battery's lifespan is typically anywhere from 10 to 15 years. Most manufacturers offer a 10-year warranty with their batteries but there are some outliers. Choosing a battery isn't easy and it's not a decision that should be made on impulse. Take your time evaluating all your options. Local installers are going to be your best source of information on what kind of battery is best for your household's energy needs and goals. They'll also be able to provide you with quotes on how much things are going to cost.The difference between AC and DC couplingWhen your installer goes to wire everything, your battery will be either AC-coupled or DC-coupled. The big difference between the two is the path the electricity travels between your solar panels, battery and home, as well as the number of times that electricity is converted. DC means direct current, in which electricity flows only one way. AC is an alternating current, in which the current is capable of changing direction. The important thing to note is that your solar panels generate DC electricity, but your house (and the power grid) runs on AC electricity. Then there's your battery, which can only store DC electricity. This is where a key piece of equipment known as an inverter comes into play. The inverter acts as a sort of translator between your solar equipment and your house, converting the DC electricity from your panels and battery into AC electricity that your home can use.In an AC-coupled system, electricity from your battery will need to be converted three times before it reaches your home. Your solar panels generate DC electricity and then are sent to your main solar inverter where the DC electricity is converted into AC electricity. From there, this AC electricity can either go straight to power your home or be sent to the battery for storage. If it goes to the battery, that AC electricity will need to be converted back to DC first. This is where a separate inverter for the battery becomes necessary. The AC electricity is converted to DC via the battery inverter and is then stored in the battery. When you're ready to pull energy from the battery to send to your home, it goes through the battery inverter once last time (from DC to AC). Needless to say, this is a pretty inefficient process.
An AC-coupled system. Zooey Liao/CNETIn a DC-coupled system, things are much simpler. There's less equipment involved and you'll only need to convert electricity once. The DC electricity generated from your solar panels will either go into the battery with no conversion necessary or it goes to the main solar inverter to be converted to AC electricity. Once that conversion happens, the AC electricity is sent to power your home.
A DC-coupled system. Zooey Liao/CNETTime-of-use offsetSolar batteries aren't just good for providing backup power. A battery can help you save money on your electricity bill, especially if your utility charges time-of-use rates. The best part is you don't even need solar panels for this to work. Some utilities charge more money for electricity use during hours of the day when the demand for electricity is high, like mornings and evenings. Rates during these specific hours can sometimes be double the normal electricity rate or higher. A battery can help you avoid these high time-of-use rates by using the stored energy from your battery to power your home during these peak hours. Your solar panels can help recharge the battery. During hours of normal electricity rates, you can charge your battery using power from the grid as well.Energy storage capacityA battery's capacity is the amount of energy it can store expressed as a unit of power over time, referred to as kilowatt-hours. The larger the kWh capacity, the more energy your battery can store. Aside from price, a battery's energy storage capacity should be one of your biggest considerations when battery shopping. Your battery should be sized based on your household's energy use and which appliances or areas in your home you want to keep powered during an outage. Depending on your backup power goals, you might need multiple batteries to achieve what you're looking for. The more energy you use, the larger your battery capacity will need to be. Batteries with more storage capacity tend to be more expensive, and powering everything in your home during an outage is a bit unrealistic. Because of this, we recommend choosing a few essentials to send backup power to. Things like your fridge, router, TV, microwave and lights are good choices to keep you comfortable and ensure that the battery won't run out of juice within the first hour or two. Just pick a few rooms to keep powered instead of the entire house.  Your installer should be able to size an appropriate battery system for your home based on your energy needs. Make sure that you're both on the same page about the expectations of the battery and exactly what's going to have power during an emergency. You don't want any surprises.Modularity Many batteries on today's market feature a modular design. Modular batteries are essentially a few small battery modules connected together inside one or several enclosures. So instead of one giant 15 kWh battery that weighs 300 pounds, you might have three small 5 kWh battery modules that sit on top of each other in a sort of "battery cabinet" or enclosure. This type of battery design often benefits you and the installer. Modular batteries offer you a bit more control over your battery's capacity, allowing you to more easily find a size that's "just right" for your energy needs. The biggest benefit is the ability to upgrade your energy storage capacity without having to buy another giant battery, as long as there's room inside the battery enclosure. If you're at maximum capacity, you'll have to buy another battery enclosure. Modular batteries also tend to be easier for installers. The battery modules tend to weigh less than 60 pounds, making them much easier and safer to carry. Some batteries might only require one or two installers. This could save you some money on labor costs. In some batteries, each battery module is monitored separately so if something goes wrong and you need maintenance, your installer can identify exactly which module is failing more quickly. If a module needs to be replaced, it's usually as simple as pulling the dead module out and then sliding a new one in. You won't need to go through the hassle of replacing the entire battery.Round-trip efficiency A battery's round-trip efficiency is exactly what it sounds like; how efficient the battery is at storing energy. Round-trip efficiency is the percentage of energy sent to the battery that actually makes it into storage without getting lost, typically to heat. The higher a battery's round-trip efficiency, the less energy you're losing. If your battery's round-trip efficiency is 80%, this means 20% of the electricity sent to the battery is lost on its way to storage. You'll notice most solar batteries have a round-trip efficiency of about 90%.Depth of dischargeDepth of discharge is the amount of energy you can use (discharge) from the battery relative to its maximum capacity. This number represents the amount of energy (in percentage form) you can safely use from your battery without damaging the battery, according to the manufacturer. Most manufacturers will disclose this figure but some don't. The closer the battery gets to 100%, the better. If the depth of discharge is not disclosed, you can get an idea of what it might be on your own as long as you know the battery's maximum and usable capacities. Most will have a specified maximum (overall) capacity and a usable capacity.Maximum capacity: The total amount of energy the battery allows you to store.Usable capacity: The amount of energy in the battery that you can use. These capacity numbers can be used to calculate the depth of discharge by dividing the usable capacity by the maximum capacity and then multiplying the answer by 100. For example, if a battery has a maximum capacity of 10kWh and a usable capacity of 9kWh, then its depth of discharge is 90%.Even if you can drain your battery to zero, it's not recommended. This can shorten its lifespan and make it harder for your battery to hold a charge over time. You'll get more cycle life out of your battery by using as little energy from your battery as you can at a time. Some manufacturers have a little energy storage capacity set aside in the battery to be used to revive it if the battery runs out of charge.Power outputAll batteries will have peak and continuous power output ratings, measured in kilowatts. Some manufacturers only disclose the continuous rating. These ratings essentially tell you how much power the battery can handle in certain situations. Peak power represents how much power the battery can put out all at once without risking damage. A battery can only "peak" for so long; this surge of power usually lasts for less than a minute. This is similar to when your air conditioner or fridge kicks on. Continuous power is the amount of power the battery can support at any given moment. If you live in a large home or have a lot of large power-hungry appliances that you plan on backing up, you're going to want higher power output ratings. Larger appliances like your HVAC, refrigerator, pool pump and EV charger are going to require more power to run. The battery in an EV is typically several times larger than the average home battery you use to power your house, so it'll likely eat up your stored energy a lot faster. A reputable installer will be able to provide recommendations for your home based on your energy use and power needs.
Your home battery's power output determines the number of loads you'll be able to back up. Petmal/Getty ImagesWarrantySolar batteries are an expensive investment so you should expect a good warranty. Most battery warranties will cover up to a certain number of years, cycles or throughput and offer an end-of-warranty capacity guarantee. Years: You can expect most battery warranty periods to last at least 10 years. We've seen plenty of manufacturers offering 12-year warranties as well. Anything above 12 years is pretty uncommon but some batteries on the market offer 15-year warranties. Just keep in mind that once your battery hits a certain cycle count or delivers a certain amount of energy during its lifetime, your warranty will expire, regardless of how many years you have left.Cycles: Any time you drain your battery, it needs to recharge. This process is called a cycle. Like most batteries, your battery will slowly lose its ability to hold a full charge over time. Many manufacturers will typically cover a certain number of cycles in the warranty agreement. The average warranty usually guarantees somewhere between 4,000 and 8,000 cycles. There are outliers on the market that will cover 10,000 cycles or more. Some batteries, like the Tesla Powerwall and the SolarEdge Home Battery, offer unlimited cycle warranties.  Throughput: Some battery warranties include a throughput clause. The battery's throughput is the total amount of energy (typically measured in megawatt-hours) that the battery is expected to deliver during its entire lifetime. This means your warranty is valid until your battery hits its throughput. In most cases, if you manage to hit your throughput before your warranty period ends, your warranty will expire. End-of-warranty capacity: Your battery's usable capacity will decrease over time. A battery's end-of-warranty capacity is the manufacturer's guarantee that your battery will be able to store up to a certain percentage of energy by the time your warranty is up. Most manufacturers will guarantee that your battery will still be able to hold at least 70% of its original capacity by the time your warranty ends. This means if you buy a battery with a usable capacity of 15kWh, your battery should be able to store at least 9kWh of energy before your warranty expires.How much does a solar battery cost?A solar battery could run your solar estimate up quite a bit. In some cases, the battery will cost almost as much as your solar panels. Solar batteries can cost anywhere from $12,000 to $22,000, according to the US Department of Energy. You can usually find smaller batteries (8kWh or less) for less than $10,000 before installation. The larger your home, the more money you'll spend on solar. As a general rule of thumb, you can usually expect to pay between $1,000 and $2,000 per kWh of energy storage. Solar battery installation fees are typically about $3,000 or more.Because most battery manufacturers don't ship these products directly to you, they tend to be very nontransparent about price. To a degree, this is understandable. The manufacturer doesn't know your energy consumption or needs and they can't predict how much money every installer is going to charge for installation and labor. Some manufacturers, like Bluetti and EcoFlow, will ship their batteries directly to you. When it's shipped to you, you'll get to see exactly how much the product costs. It's up to you to find an installer or hire an electrician to get everything connected to your home. Recently, SolarEdge has made moves to shift manufacturing of the Solar Edge Home Battery to the US. It currently manufactures optimizers and inverters in the US in an Austin, Texas, facility and has opened a second facility in Seminole, Florida. Manufacturers should know at least the minimum amount that their battery sells for, regardless of upcharges from third parties. Some manufacturers will display a "starting at" price or some form of ballpark estimate on their website, but this is very uncommon. This lack of straightforward pricing information can make shopping around for batteries frustrating and tedious. Want something smaller than a whole-home solar system? See our picks for the best portable solar panels and solar generators.
Solar batteries are a costly investment. Petmal/Getty ImagesOther batteries we reviewedFranklin Home Power: The Franklin Home Power battery is a solid option, receiving an average score in nearly every category. The standouts for this battery are its 12-year warranty and the fact that you can install up to 15 batteries on one system for a total energy storage capacity of 204 kWh. It's a good battery if you're looking for a well-rounded battery for adding large capacity expansions. Franklin Home Power is also more expensive than similar batteries on the market. Panasonic Evervolt Home Battery: The Panasonic Evervolt Home Battery didn't make our top five but it's still a great option for those wanting a modular battery without sacrificing power. It's available in 9, 13.5 and 18kWh capacity sizes, and is expandable in 4.5kWh increments. The Evervolt Home Battery comes with a strong 12-year warranty and a solid continuous power output (7.6kW). In our scoring, the battery falls slightly short in its AC round-trip efficiency and depth of discharge.Emporia PowerStation: Emporia's PowerStation isn't a bad option if you're looking for a modular battery. We found other modular options on the market to be a bit better. The PowerStation is available in 9, 13.5 and 18 kWh capacity sizes and you can install up to four units for a total capacity of 72 kWh. Its best features are its 12-year warranty and 7.6 kW of continuous power. We also found Emporia to be one of the most price-transparent manufacturers. You'll be able to get a quick quote online without giving away any personal information. There are cheaper options on the market and some of the PowerStation's performance specifications fall behind the competition.SunPower SunVault: The SunPower SunVault is a solid battery, with a great warranty. It's also backed by a solar company with a proven track record and the most efficient solar panels on the market. If you're already considering SunPower as your solar installer, the SunVault is a good choice for a battery. The biggest standouts with the SunVault are its large capacity options and unlimited cycle warranty. The SunVault is sold as either a single unit (13 or 19.5kWh) or a double unit (26 or 39kWh). It falls short in efficiency, power and modularity. We also found fewer options for customer support in comparison to other battery manufacturers.Savant Power Storage 20: If you're looking for a battery to integrate with your ever-expanding smart home ecosystem, the Savant Power Storage 20 is likely one of your best options. It's designed as an intelligent smart energy system to give you more control over your home's energy use on the circuit level, as well as provide backup power during an outage. Based on the categories we use to score batteries, it didn't make the cut. The Power Storage 20 has a very impressive 12.5 kW continuous power output and its efficiency and warranty aren't too shabby either. It falls short in the depth of discharge, modularity and customer support options. It's also one of the more expensive batteries on the market.Sonnen Ecolinx: The Sonnen Ecolinx is a solid option if you want to participate in a virtual power plant. Most of Sonnen's batteries are designed with VPP functionality in mind first and backup power second. The Ecolinx has an excellent 15-year warranty, covering 15,000 cycles. It also features a modular design. You can install between 12 kWh to 20 kWh, expandable in increments of 2 kWh. In comparison to other batteries, the Ecolinx has poor efficiency (81.6%) and is very expensive. We also didn't see many options for customer support on Sonnen's website.  LG ESS Home 8: LG has the benefit of being a household name and you might already have other LG appliances in your home. The Home 8 isn't necessarily a bad battery choice but it trails the competition in just about every category we score for. We did find its warranty and price to be a bit competitive. LGES 10H & 16H Prime: Both the 10H and 16H Prime batteries are pretty barebones in terms of cool features but if you're after a fairly standard battery with a standard warranty, then one of these might be for you. These batteries are a bit older so the performance specs and overall design are starting to show their age a bit. They also tend to be a bit cheaper than other options. The LGES 10H and 16H Prime aren't modular batteries and you can only install up to one other unit, making capacity upgrades more difficult. Customer support options are lacking as well.Sonnen Core Plus: The SonnenCore Plus falls a bit short in just about every category except for its warranty and depth of discharge. The warranty is good for 10 years or 10,000 cycles, which is pretty substantial in comparison to other battery warranties, particularly the cycle life. Like most Sonnen batteries, the Core Plus falls short in efficiency, power and customer support options.  Sonnen Evo: Sonnen's Evo battery model shares the same pros and cons as the Core Plus. The Evo's warranty is also 10 years or 10,000 cycles and has a 100% depth of discharge. It falls short in just about every other category, particularly efficiency, power, modularity and options for customer support on Sonnen's website.  Tigo EI Battery: The Tigo EI Battery landed an average score in most categories and has very few standouts. We found its price and efficiency to be better than other batteries. It trails the competition a bit in every other category.  Enphase IQ Battery 3/3T & 10/10T: Both of these batteries scored on the lower end in almost every category. The biggest highlight for the IQ Battery 3/3T and 10/10T is their price, which usually tends to be cheaper than other batteries on this list. Enphase also has a plethora of options for customer support, including live chat and 24-hour availability. Most manufacturers only have a support email and phone number.Home batteries can help you through a blackoutWhether you have solar panels, you might want to consider getting a home battery if you're worried about power outages. Batteries can run your home for hours or even days when the power goes out and if you live in an area where that happens frequently, it might be a good investment. We looked at data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration to put together a map of how many power outages per year, on average, the average utility customer in each state had from 2018-2022 (using all reporting methods). We also put together a map showing the average total duration of outages per year, in hours. Generally, states along the coast and those in the Southeast had the most and longest outages.A home battery is one way to provide backup power but it isn't the only thing. You can use a portable power station for a smaller, more limited backup solution. A fuel-powered generator is also a possibility.How we evaluated the best solar batteriesFirst and foremost, it's important to point out that not every solar battery is right for every home. Solar is a very site-specific and personalized decision process so it's a little tricky to pinpoint exactly which solar battery is the "best" battery for your home's energy needs without doing an on-site consultation. It should also be said that we didn't have any form of hands-on testing with any of the batteries we scored. This list also assumes you're purchasing a battery for the main purpose of using it for energy backup. If you mainly plan to use your battery for energy offset or virtual power plant purposes, there are likely better options than what we have featured on this list. We strongly encourage you to do your own independent research, as well as speak with installers in your area. An installer will be able to get a better understanding of your home's energy use and what sort of system you might need. We used a few ways to evaluate and compare these batteries to find the stand-outs. Here's how we developed our list of top solar batteries.First, we determined which categories would be used to evaluate each battery's performance, capacity and value. We also weighted each category. The weight of each category reflects the importance we felt was relevant to the average consumer. Modularity: 20%Warranty: 20%Round-trip efficiency: 15%Power output: 15%Depth of discharge: 10%Price: 5%Price transparency: 5% Customer support options: 10%We looked at more than 15 of the most widely available batteries on the market and collected the data for each category to compare the numbers. Each category (for every battery) was given a tier-style rating (from 1 to 5) to evaluate which aspects of each battery were above average (among our list), just average or below average. Solar battery FAQs
Do solar batteries qualify for the federal tax credit?
The federal solar tax credit covers 30% of the total cost of your solar system in tax credits. Solar batteries qualify for the federal solar tax credit as long as your battery can hold at least 3kWh of energy and is installed in 2024 or later.
Show more
How long do solar batteries last?
A solar battery's lifespan is typically between 10 and 15 years. Factors affecting the lifespan of your battery include weather conditions (if outdoors), type of battery, depth of discharge (the less energy you use at one time, the better), installation and usage.
Show more
How many solar batteries do I need to go off-grid?
Because solar is so site-dependent, there is no definitive answer for the number of batteries it takes to go off-grid. It's going to be different for everybody. Most homeowners are going to need multiple batteries to go completely off-grid. Your home's energy usage and the size of your solar system are two of the biggest factors determining how many batteries you'll need to go off-grid.
Show more
Will a solar battery power my house during an outage?
Yes. Protection from power outages is one of the main reasons why homeowners choose to have a home battery installed. If you have solar panels, installing a solar battery will allow you to store excess electricity generated by your solar panels. This stored electricity can be used at any time, even during a grid outage.
Show more
Which type of battery is best for a residential solar panel system?
Lithium-ion batteries are the most popular type of solar battery for residential solar applications. These batteries are durable and require little to no maintenance. They also come with a higher energy density and depth of discharge.
Show more
Sarah Drolet
Read more from Sarah
Sarah Drolet was a writer, reporter and strategic thinker for CNET's home energy and utilities coverage. She specialized in residential solar power, solar storage solutions and whole-home backup technology.
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Other Energy Saving Guides
Other Types of Energy
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Portable Power Stations
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced
Home Generator Buying Guide
Heat Pump vs. Furnace
Anker Portable Power Station
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced vs. Nest Thermostat
Nest Learning Thermostat vs. Nest Thermostat
Storage Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart
Living Off the Grid Series
Moving Off- Grid: My Ultimate Pandemic Project Is About More Than Utility Bills
How Living With Solar Panels Demystified Electricity for Me
For Life Off the Grid, Batteries Mean Independence
The Biggest Pros and Cons of Living Off-Grid Arent What I Expected
The Hidden (and Not So Hidden) Expenses of Living Off Grid
My Off-Grid Project: The Secrets I Learned to Save on Solar
Article updated on February 24, 2025 at 8:25 AM PST
Our Experts
Written by
Sarah Drolet
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Sarah Drolet Former Writer Sarah Drolet was a writer, reporter and strategic thinker for CNET's home energy and utilities coverage. She specialized in residential solar power, solar storage solutions and whole-home backup technology. Expertise Energy, home battery backup, solar batteries, energy storage, solar inverters, solar shingles, solar power, state solar policy, renewable energy, climate issues, home electrification, smart home energy tech, deregulated energy.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
174175176177178179180+ Experts Interviewed 030405060708091011121314+ Companies Reviewed 108109110111112113+ Products Reviewed
How we test
We thoroughly evaluate each company and product we review and ensure our stories meet our high editorial standards.
Instantly estimate your solar cost and savings. Pick a provider later.
Get online estimate
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.