Logitech's next gaming mouse will have haptic-based clicks, adjustable actuation, and rapid trigger — new G Pro X2 Superstrike will land at $180 | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Gaming Monitors
Alienware AW2725D 27-inch QD-OLED QHD 280 Hz gaming monitor review: Rich color, high performance and excellent value.
Gaming Headsets
Best Gaming Headsets 2025
Gaming Mice
Best Gaming Mouse 2025
Gaming Mice
Best Mouse Pads 2025: Effortless Glide, Pretty Lights
Keyboards
Best Wireless Keyboards 2025
Gaming Headsets
Best Wireless Gaming Headsets 2025: Bluetooth, Budget, and More
Logitech Promo Codes
Wearable Tech
Wearable finger mouse designed to deliver precision with no flat surface required
Mice
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
Controllers and Gamepads
Modular Victrix Pro BFG Reloaded controller delivers flexibility to fussy PC and console gamers
Mechanical Keyboards
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Gaming Mice
Yes, you do need a mouse with 19 buttons — here's why
3D Printing
Maker 3D prints left-handed Logitech MX Master 3S — fixes awkward button layout made for righties
Gaming Monitors
MSI and Gigabyte debut new 500 Hz QD-OLED gaming monitors
Peripherals
This $37 tactile dial for PCs supercharges your scrolling
Peripherals
Mice
Gaming Mice
Logitech's next gaming mouse will have haptic-based clicks, adjustable actuation, and rapid trigger — new G Pro X2 Superstrike will land at $180
News
By
Sarah Jacobsson Purewal
published
18 September 2025
Analog mouse clicks with an "innovative click haptics system."
Comments (2)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Logitech)
Logitech's latest addition to its ultra-light wireless gaming mouse lineup has something no other mouse has: an "innovative blend of inductive analog sensing and real-time click haptics." What this means is that Logitech's new G Pro X2 Superstrike mouse will feature an analog system that allows you to adjust the point at which your mouse switches actuate and still get the real-time feedback of a physical "click," thanks to haptics. Logitech's new mouse will feature its new "Superstrike" technology, which involves a "bespoke Haptic Inductive Trigger System (HITS)" that "combines adjustable actuation point and rapid trigger capabilities with an innovative haptics system." While we've seen analog switches and adjustable actuation a lot in the best gaming keyboards, this is the first time we'll see it in a gaming mouse. This is because gamers want their mice to click exactly when the button actuates, and you can't have this without something like HITS, which changes the "click" to match the new actuation point. According to Logitech, the mouse will feature 10 selectable actuation steps and five rapid trigger reset levels over 0.6mm of click travel, which seems like a fairly detailed amount of fine-tuning. But the brand does point out that the mouse is designed for professional athletes, so this makes sense. Haptic Inductive Trigger System aside, the Pro X2 Superstrike will feature Logitech's latest Hero 2 optical sensor, which has a maximum resolution of 44,000 DPI and a maximum speed of 888 IPS and can handle up to 88 G's of acceleration. (This is the same sensor found in Logitech's G Pro X Superlight 2 Dex.) It will also feature up to an 8,000 Hz polling rate and offer up to 90 hours of battery life, albeit not at the same time. Specs-wise, the mouse will weigh 65g (2.29oz) and measure 4.92 x 2.5 x 1.57 inches (125 x 63.5 x 40mm), which makes it identical to the Logitech G Pro X Superlight 2 in size and shape and about 5g heavier in weight. Logitech says the Pro X2 Superstrike will hit shelves in Q1 of 2026 for $179.99, so we'll probably see it showcased at CES 2026.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
You may like
Best Gaming Mouse 2025
Wearable finger mouse designed to deliver precision with no flat surface required
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
See more Gaming Mice News
See all comments (2)
Sarah Jacobsson PurewalSocial Links NavigationSenior Editor, PeripheralsSarah Jacobsson Purewal is a senior editor at Tom's Hardware covering peripherals, software, and custom builds. You can find more of her work in PCWorld, Macworld, TechHive, CNET, Gizmodo, Tom's Guide, PC Gamer, Men's Health, Men's Fitness, SHAPE, Cosmopolitan, and just about everywhere else.
Read more
Best Gaming Mouse 2025
Wearable finger mouse designed to deliver precision with no flat surface required
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
Modular Victrix Pro BFG Reloaded controller delivers flexibility to fussy PC and console gamers
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Yes, you do need a mouse with 19 buttons — here's why
Latest in Gaming Mice
Yes, you do need a mouse with 19 buttons — here's why
Logitech G Pro X Superlight 2 gaming mouse gets $56 discount ahead of Memorial Day sale
Corsair Scimitar Elite SE Wireless Review: A not-so-virtual virtual Stream Deck?
Orbitalworks Pathfinder Review: Make your own mouse
Hit this gorgeous 34-inch Philips Evnia QD OLED widescreen gaming monitor deal and improve your gaming visuals
Serious about your shooters? Pick up this 8K-polling ultra-lightweight Glorious Gaming Series 2 Pro wireless mouse for just $38
Latest in News
xAI's new gas turbine facility gets halfway to Elon Musk's 1-gigawatt 'AI factory' goal
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
Microsoft announces 'world's most powerful' AI data center
Silverstone's retro PC FLP02 case launches for $220
Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions from next year
Pixie Dust wireless exploit lingers 11 years after initial disclosure
2 Comments
Comment from the forums
Dementoss
Admin said:professional athletesCalling computer gamers, athletes, is as laughable as calling pro darts players, sportsmen...
Reply
Tonet666
Dementoss said:Calling computer gamers, athletes, is as laughable as calling pro darts players, sportsmen...:tearsofjoy::tearsofjoy::tearsofjoy:
Reply
View All 2 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.