Best Earplugs for Sleeping You Can Buy in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Sleep Tech
Best Earplugs for Sleeping You Can Buy in 2025
Getting a good night's sleep is vital, but doing it in a noisy environment can be a nightmare. These earplugs can help.
Lindsay Boyers CNET Contributor Lindsay Boyers is a certified nutritionist and published book author who writes articles and product reviews for CNET's health and wellness section. Her work also appears on mindbodygreen, Healthline, Verywell Health and The Spruce. When she's not actively searching for the best products at the best prices, she's most likely creating new recipes, reading in her hammock or trying to force her cats to love her.
See full bio
Prakhar Khanna Update Writer / CNET Prakhar Khanna is an Updates Writer at CNET with bylines in ZDNET, Forbes, and other major outlets. He was part of the judges' jury for the CES 2025 Innovation Awards. Find him across social media @ParkyPrakhar.
Contact: parkydoesstuff(at)gmail(dot)com Expertise Mobile, Audio, Travel tech
See full bio
Jessica Rendall Former Wellness Reporter Jessica was a writer on the Wellness team, with a focus on health technology, eye care, nutrition and finding new approaches to chronic health problems. Expertise Public health, new wellness technology and health hacks that don't cost money Credentials Added coconut oil to cheap coffee before keto made it cool.
See full bio
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor Nasha is a Managing Editor for CNET, overseeing our sleep and wellness verticals. She is a nutrition, mental health, fitness and sleep science enthusiast. Her passion for mindful and holistic practices transcends her personal life and profoundly influences her editorial approach, as she weaves evidence-based insights with practical advice to inspire readers to lead healthier, more balanced lives. Throughout her career, she's covered various topics including financial services, technology, travel and wellness. Expertise Sleep | Mental health | Personal Care | Fitness | Nutrition | Medical | Wellness | Vitamins and Supplements | Vision Health | Longevity Credentials Sleep Science Coach Certification from The Spencer Institute.
See full bio
Lindsay Boyers
Prakhar Khanna
Jessica Rendall
,
Nasha Addarich Martínez
July 24, 2025
9:25 a.m. PT 8 min read
Mack's Pillow Soft Silicone Putty Earplugs Best budget earplugs for side sleepers and snoring
$9 at Amazon
Eargasm Squishies Best earplugs for side sleepers
$17 at Amazon
Mack's Slim Fit Foam Earplugs Best disposable earplugs for small ears
$15 at Amazon
Vibes Hi-Fidelity Earplugs Best sleep earplugs for travel
$35 at Amazon
Loop Dream Earplugs Best adjustable earplugs for sleeping
$50 at Loop
Happy Ears Earplugs Sustainable earplugs with comfortable fit
$37 at Happy Ears
Show more (1 item)
Table of Contents
Best Earplugs for Sleeping You Can Buy in 2025
What are the best earplugs overall?
Best earplugs for sleeping
Best budget earplugs for side sleepers and snoring
Best earplugs for side sleepers
Best disposable earplugs for small ears
Best sleep earplugs for travel
Best adjustable earplugs for sleeping
Sustainable earplugs with comfortable fit
How we chose the best earplugs for sleeping
Factors to consider when choosing earplugs for sleep
Other products for drowning out sound
Waking refreshed and ready to take on the day means getting a good night's sleep first, and that can be surprisingly difficult. Whether your partner has a tendency to snore, you're in need of a new mattress or just want to block out the howl of jet engines as you head on a summer vacation, one possible solution is a good pair of earplugs. Some people resort to wearing a pair of wireless earbuds, but that's suboptimal for all kinds of reasons. After all, quality sleep is essential for your health and well-being, including mood and energy levels. So why not use something built specifically for the job at hand? Earplugs are a simple, affordable way to block out noise at night and sleep peacefully.Choosing the best pair of earplugs isn’t just about blocking sound. Comfort, fit and irritation-free wear are just as important. After putting a variety of options to the test, we’ve rounded up the top earplugs for different needs, whether you’re battling snoring, sleeping on your side, traveling frequently or just want something simple to toss after use.What are the best earplugs overall?The best earplugs for you will depend on exactly what you want out of an earplug. If you have small ears and want something disposable, try Mack's Slim Fit Foam Earplugs. For adjustable earplugs, we recommend Loop Dream Earplugs. Eargasm Squishies are also great for those who sleep on their side.Best earplugs for sleeping
Mack's
Mack's Pillow Soft Silicone Putty Earplugs
Best budget earplugs for side sleepers and snoring
$9 at Amazon
$9 at Walmart
Like
Affordable
Effectively seals the ear
Don't like
Earplugs cover the ear canal instead of fitting inside; failing to use them as directed could lodge them in your ear canal
If you're strictly a side sleeper, Mack's Pillow Soft Silicone Putty Earplugs are the best sleep earplugs for the money. They're made of soft, fully moldable silicone that conforms to your ear opening and forms an airtight seal that blocks out noise.Aside from the fact that they could be shaped for a perfect fit, these earplugs were soft and comfortable. They stayed completely flat on my ear opening so they didn't hurt to wear. They also stayed in all night; a feat that many standard earplugs haven't been able to accomplish. Most important, these moldable earplugs did an excellent job at blocking snoring and any other ambient noise (like three large cats play-fighting in the middle of the night).The six pairs also come neatly packaged in a plastic carrying case, which keeps the silicone clean and free from debris between uses; a small but appreciated touch.Additional details: Price: Less than $5Reusable: Up to five uses/nights or until earplugs are no longer sticky Noise reduction rating: 22 decibels NRRComfortable for side sleeping: Yes  Ease of use: Don't fit like "regular" earplugs so may take some getting used to
$9 at Amazon
$9 at Walmart
Eargasm
Eargasm Squishies
Best earplugs for side sleepers
$17 at Amazon
Like
Comfortable for side sleeping
You can cut each earplug/seal for a better fit
Don't like
More expensive than Mack's product but a similar product
The Eargasm Squishies are another moldable silicone option similar to Mack's Pillow Soft Silicone Putty Earplugs. The biggest difference, besides the color, is in the directions. Mack's silicone earplugs must be used whole; you can't break them or cut them apart. Eargasm says if the earplugs are too big, you can break off a piece to get that perfect fit. This is helpful if you have small ears and find that using the entire silicone earplug feels too intrusive.The comfort level was also similar, although the Eargasm Squishies had a slight advantage because I could break off a piece and make it a little smaller. The Eargasm Squishies also comes in a convenient carrying case with eight reusable pairs.Additional details: Price: Less than $20 Reusable: Yes but it's unclear how many uses you'll get per pair Noise reduction rating: 22 decibels NRRComfortable for side sleeping: Yes Ease of use: Easy to use
$17 at Amazon
Mack's
Mack's Slim Fit Foam Earplugs
Best disposable earplugs for small ears
$15 at Amazon
$15 at Walmart
Like
Great for small ear canals
Effectively reduce sound
Don't like
May not work for larger ear canals
Not designed for multiple use
The Mack's Slim Fit Foam Earplugs look like any regular old foam earplugs but if you have small ears, you may feel the difference in quality immediately. They quickly formed an airtight seal and muffled sound instantly. Loud snoring went from a roaring thunderstorm to a minor distraction that was easy to tune out. These particular earplugs have a noise reduction rating of 31 dB. For reference, most earplugs on the market have a rating of 0 to 30 dB, and the higher the number, the more effective they are. Mack's Slim Fit Foam Earplugs are specifically made for small ear canals. Finding the right earplug size makes a huge difference in effectiveness, so keep that in mind. If you don't have small ears, you can still take advantage of Mack's advanced snore-blocking technology with its Snore Blockers or Original Soft Foam Earplugs. If you go with any of these options from our best sleep earplugs list, make sure you thoroughly read the directions before putting them in your ears. One of the most common reasons these types of earplugs get a bad review is because they're not inserted properly.Additional details: Price: Less than $20 Reusable: No Noise reduction rating: 31 decibels NRRComfort: Great for small ear canalsEase of use: Easy to use
$15 at Amazon
$15 at Walmart
Vibes
Vibes Hi-Fidelity Earplugs
Best sleep earplugs for travel
$35 at Amazon
$30 at Walmart
Like
Great for reducing noise when you want to keep the quality of the sound
Reusable
Don't like
Not that comfortable for sleeping unless you're a back sleeper
The Vibes Hi-Fidelity Earplugs are different from the others on this list. They're actually designed for live music festivals so rather than blocking out noise, the intent is to lower the decibels of the sound around you to make the noise more manageable. This makes them the ideal choice for traveling when the noise can get overwhelming but you don't want to be completely checked out from the world as you take a quick snooze. When tested at a store and coffee shop, they did an excellent job blocking out voices, reducing pitches and dulling loud music.You can also use them for sleeping at home but only if you're strictly a back sleeper. The earplugs have a stem that sticks out straight from your ear canal so not only are they uncomfortable when you're sleeping on your side but they could also get pushed too far into your ear and cause problems. The earplugs come with three ear tip sizes so you can find the ideal fit for your ear canal and a small carrying case that makes them easier for travel. Additional details: Price: Less than $30 Reusable: Yes Sound reduction: Up to 22 decibels (NRR is 15 decibels)Comfortable for sleeping: No Ease of use: Easy to use
$35 at Amazon
$30 at Walmart
Loop
Loop Dream Earplugs
Best adjustable earplugs for sleeping
$50 at Loop
Like
Comes with four sizes of adjustable tips
Has a loop you can grab and easily adjust in your ear
Don't like
Not very easy to switch tip sizes
These reusable silicone earplugs come fixed with a "loop" for making easy adjustments once they're in your ear. Loop Dream Earplugs come with four sizes of tips you can choose from to fit your ear canal, which is more selection than a lot of brands. Fixing a new tip size back onto the earplug isn't the easiest process and requires some focus and finesse. Hopefully, you'd only have to switch tips once or twice to find your size, then only when you clean them.  Based on reviews, these Loop earplugs seem to work well for some side sleepers. From our testing with side sleeping, they would require some getting used to for longer or everyday use. Because of their easy movement and sleek look, these earplugs would come in handy when you want to turn down the volume and focus. They're available in lilac, black and peach.
Additional details: Price: $50Reusable: Yes Sound reduction: Up to 27 decibels (14 decibel NRR) Comfortable for side sleeping: YesEase of use: Easy to adjust once in your ear
$50 at Loop
Happy Ears
Happy Ears Earplugs
Sustainable earplugs with comfortable fit
$37 at Happy Ears
Like
Fit well and barely noticeable
Thecompany sells eco-friendly earplugs
Don't like
Not the cheapest on the list
Happy Ears is a Swedish company known for its sustainable packaging and recycled material for its earplugs. Happy Ears makes earplugs from ocean plastics and recycled plastics. There is also an "original" earplug that isn't made from recycled plastics. Even if you don't buy recycled earplugs, the Happy Ears packaging is recyclable, biodegradable and compostable. We tested the Original Discovery Pack, which means a package of earplugs comes in small, medium and large sizes for you to choose from. The earplugs are small and straightforward and fit inside the ear canal well. The recycled material earplugs come in black. The earplugs made from ocean plastics are green and reduce two additional decibels of sound.Additional details: Price: Less than $40 Reusable: Yes Sound reduction: Up to 25 decibels (original earplug)Ease of use: Very easy Comfortable for side sleeping: Mostly
$37 at Happy Ears
How we chose the best earplugs for sleepingWhen selecting the best earplugs for sleeping, we tested them the only way you can: by wearing them to bed. While testing, we noted each selection's fit, comfort and quality for the best earplugs for sleeping. We also considered how many decibels the earplugs could reduce, or noise reduction ratings when they were available. Official noise reduction ratings are usually slightly different (and lower) than the average decibel or sound reduction listed because they take into account other factors, Vibes says on its website. Factors to consider when choosing earplugs for sleep There's a lot of variety in earplugs. What works for someone else might not be the best choice for you because of size, shape and material. Here are a few things to look out for. Safety: It's important to know whether you're a good candidate for sleeping in earplugs. People who have an ear infection, a build-up of earwax or other concerns about their ears should check with a doctor before wearing earplugs to sleep. To avoid an infection from wearing your earplugs, you should dispose of disposable earplugs as directed and follow the instructions for your reusable plugs on how to clean them.Material: This will determine the quality and comfort of the earplugs. Typical materials used are Silicone, wax, foam and cotton. Foam is typically the most common earplug material because it's the cheapest. On the other hand, Silicone is what you'll find most reusable options made out of. Wax earplugs give you the benefit of molding them to the shape of your ear. Noise or sound reduction This is an important one. The noise reduction rating tells you how many decibels the earplugs block. The rating ranges from 0 to 33 dB. So, earplugs with a higher NRR score block out the noise the best. Whether they're reusable: Earplugs are available in either single-use or reusable options. There are benefits and drawbacks to each. Single-use earplugs are typically cheaper and suitable for occasional use. If you're looking to use them regularly, it's best to invest in reusable options; they're better for the environment and way more durable. Price: We all know price is one of the most important parts of shopping for the best earplugs for sleep. A pack of disposable earplugs can seem like the obvious choice based on price, as most packs average around $10. Reusable earplugs may be better suited if you're looking for a long-term option. They cost a bit more, but you only need to buy them once.
Best earplugs for sleeping FAQ
What kind of earplugs are best for sleeping?
The best kind of earplug for sleeping will depend on preference, although the good options will fit snugly in your ear canal without causing discomfort. During our testing, we found the best earplugs for sleeping to be: Mack’s Pillow Sock Silicone Putty EarplugsEargasm SquishiesMack’s Slim Fit Foam EarplugsVibes Hi-Fidelity EarplugsLoops Dream Earplugs Happy Ears Earplugs
What earplugs block the most sound?
No earplugs completely block out sound. When testing, we found that Mack’s Pillow Soft Silicone Putty Earplugs did a great job blocking snoring and other ambient noise. Earplugs that you can cut or mold to your ear canal will have an edge on those that can’t when blocking sound.
Is it comfortable to sleep with earplugs?
Your sleeping position may be a determining factor in how long it takes you to get used to sleeping in earplugs or whether you love them. Back sleepers typically experience the least amount of problems. Stomach and side sleepers may find that certain earplugs may backfire and make noise as they come in contact with the pillow. Selecting earplugs that don't stick out of your ears will help side sleepers avoid this.
Is it safe to wear earplugs every night?
Usually, yes, as long as you use them as directed. There are side effects you should be aware of. Earplugs may cause earwax buildup and cause ear canal damage if used incorrectly. You also shouldn't use them if you have signs of an ear infection, like drainage or pain. If you have reusable earplugs, make sure to follow the directions and regularly clean them. Always throw away the disposable earplugs. Using earplugs that have bacteria on them can lead to an infection.
Why does sleeping with my earplugs hurt my ears?
If you're finding that you wake up with ear pain, you could be experiencing problems with earwax and infections. To prevent this you'll want to make sure to properly clean the earplugs and make sure to safely clean your ears regularly.
Can earplugs completely block out snoring?
No earplugs can eliminate sounds completely and that includes snoring. However, some options will perform better than others for this specific purpose. During our testing, Mack's Pillow Soft Silicone Putty Earplugs proved particularly effective at blocking snoring sounds. For the most effective results, ensure your earplugs fit properly -- an airtight seal will mean maximum noise reduction. If snoring remains an issue despite using one of these top earplugs, you might want to consider combining them with other solutions like white noise machines.
What are the best alternatives to earplugs?
Earmuffs, noise-cancelling headphones and waxed earplugs are popular alternatives to earplugs. They are a good option if you are sensitive to wearing earplugs or find them uncomfortable to use overnight.
Can earplugs push in earwax?
Yes, earplugs can sometimes push earwax deeper into the ear canal. This happens especially if they are inserted forcefully or used frequently. Over time, it can lead to buildup or even blockages. To avoid it, insert earplugs gently and clean your ears regularly. You can also use earplugs designed to minimize pressure on the ear canal. Other products for drowning out soundLoud or abrupt sounds can be harmful to your sleep quality but not everyone will benefit from earplugs. Besides sleep earplugs, here are other products you can use to help drown out unwanted or disruptive noise and get a good night's sleep. White noise machinesHeadphones for sleepMeditation appsProducts to help stop snoring
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.