automatic screen recognition not working under X11 on Raspberry pi os bookworm - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
automatic screen recognition not working under X11 on Raspberry pi os bookworm [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
2 days ago
Modified
2 days ago
Viewed
31 times
-3
Closed. This question is not about programming or software development. It is not currently accepting answers.
This question does not appear to be about a specific programming problem, a software algorithm, or software tools primarily used by programmers. If you believe the question would be on-topic on another Stack Exchange site, you can leave a comment to explain where the question may be able to be answered.
Closed 2 days ago.
Improve this question
When I change the display server from wayland to x11 on my Raspberry Pi 5 via raspi-config, it stops automatically adjusting to changes to the connected screens.
e.g. if i unplug the cable from one screen and plug it into another screen (with a different resolution), the screen remains black.
xrandr shows the screen as connected, but X11 is not using it, until i explicitly tell it to via xrandr (via ssh)
even a reboot does not work, X11 will simply ignore the screen until i "force" it to use it.
Any idea why that is the case and how i can make X11 automatically use whatever screen/resolution is connected?
Or can you give me hints how i can find out more about where this problem actually comes from?
A little bit of background:
I am setting up a Raspberry Pi 5 as "Thin client" to RDP onto a windows 11 Workstation via freerdp2.
I need freeerdp to be able to forward the "Windows"/"Meta"-Key to the remote host.
This does not work while the pi is running wayland.
According to my research, on the wayland-version shipped with raspi-os-bookworm there is no way for freerdp2 to catch the meta-key and forward it to the remote host.
I'm not sure if this is already fixed in freerdp3 but since that is not available for bookworm, it doesn't really matter.
That means i must switch back to X11 (where the forwarding of the meta-key works fine), but then the screen doesn't work reliably...
raspberry-pi-os
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 2 days ago
SorontikSorontik
6311 silver badge77 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
How to compile Qt 6.9 under Raspberry Pi?
0
flutter does not install on my raspberry pi
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
raspberry-pi-os
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
How to draw the following graph in latex?
What license to use when extending a pre-existing library?
3 variables cyclic rearrangement inequality.
On the Subject of Switches
How can an alien symbiote coexist with the immune system long-term?
Does pseudo-vitae revenants produce replenish vitae in Kindred?
Are there injections that combine 80 different vaccines?
What's the cents value of these SMuFL accidentals?
Short story about a metal-eating alien
Traveling by car on train in Germany
What happens to academic grants if you leave for industry?
Convex sets, tangent cones and convergence
Lock icon to convey disabled but has a clickable feature?
What is the song that plays in "Highlander," season 6, episode 13?
Time traveler named Tom/John forgets device, Penelope Weschler, machine harvests Earth's spin
how would you formalise in first order logic the sentence "I am a liar"?
How does a telepathic bond work if the bondee lacks language?
What is this glass device I found next to drinking glasses in the south of France
In the U.S., what protections are in place to help (under)graduate students whose entire department is removed?
How Create a math symbol
Changing size of math environments
Verify a Chinese ID Number
Can Monks use their Dex modifier to determine jump distance?
If 3-D is too easy, go 4-D
more hot questions
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480