I Wore Meta's New Ray-Ban Display Glasses and Neural Band. I Feel Augmented - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
ai atlas
Tech Computing
I Wore Meta's New Ray-Ban Display Glasses and Neural Band. I Feel Augmented
Meta's AR glasses, available Sept. 30 for $799, have a neural wristband and a wide range of AI and app functions. They dream big, but their future is unclear.
Scott Stein Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future. Expertise VR and AR | Gaming | Metaverse technologies | Wearable tech | Tablets Credentials Nearly 20 years writing about tech, and over a decade reviewing wearable tech, VR, and AR products and apps
See full bio
Scott Stein
Sept. 17, 2025
5:21 p.m. PT 10 min read
Here I am wearing test-drove Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses and the neural band. That's a lot of tech on my face and wrist. Scott Stein/CNET
As soon as I saw Alex Himel, Meta's head of wearables, wearing a thick pair of glasses next to me as he entered the room, I knew they had to be Meta's next pair of rumored display glasses. Thicker than regular Meta Ray-Bans, they reminded me of something filmmaker Martin Scorsese would wear. They were stylish, with a sort of translucent-ish brown frame. I also noticed their sidekick, the ribbed fabric wristband, but only because I was looking for it. What wowed me right away, though, was they didn't look that strange at all. And I couldn't see any sign of the display they contained inside.The new Meta's Ray-Ban Display glasses are very real. They go on sale Sept. 30 for $799. See at MetaAnd they're wild to use. When wearing a pair myself, I saw a display projected on the lens of my right eye. I navigated apps with little flicks and pinches of my right hand sporting the neural band, which is part of the set.
Watch this: Meta Ray-Bans Get Built-In Displays and a Neural Wristband
05:53
The current Meta Ray-Bans are different: They don't have a display or a wristband, and they cost a lot less. They're also the best smart glasses right now. I'm not sure how many people will find Meta's new Display glasses essential or affordable. Also, they won't work with all prescriptions.For example, I have a -8.00 refraction, and Meta's newest glasses won't work for me. They're only designed to fit a +4.00 to -4.00 prescription range for now (though Meta provided some chunky lens inserts so I could actually see the demo). That missing piece says a lot about where Meta is with designing smart eyewear for everyone. The Display Glasses are the most expensive and ambitious device announced at Meta Connect 2025, but they're not alone. The company also debuted standard Meta Ray-Bans Gen 2, available now, with better cameras and battery life, as well as the fitness-focused curved Oakley Vanguard glasses, coming Oct. 21.
Meta's new glasses are a package with the neural band: They're a set. MetaA step toward future AR glassesWhile Meta's Ray-Bans have become a success as wearable smart tech, the next steps on the road to augmented reality glasses are more challenging. A year ago, I tried Meta's moonshot prototype for AR glasses, Project Orion, which had large 3D displays, eye tracking and worked with a neural wristband. The promise was to make glasses almost an augmented extension of the body, a way to bring AI to your wrist and eyes.As I expected, that neural wristband is back and finally debuting with these new Ray-Ban Display glasses. It's part of the $799 package and easily the most interesting element. But while these new glasses miraculously exist as an actual product just a year after Orion, they lack a lot of Orion's futuristic extras. There's no eye tracking, 3D or spatial awareness, and there's only a small color display in one eye.Still, my roughly 40-minute demo with Ray-Ban Display glasses at Meta's campus showed me that the future of glasses is coming, alongside wearable wrist interfaces. The future of AI on glasses is also evolving, and it's fascinating. During my demo, I felt myself becoming augmented, sometimes in odd ways. So I do have major questions about how it'll work in the real world and not feel distracting or distancing.
Meta's head of wearables, Alex Himmel, is wearing the sand-colored Meta Ray Ban Display glasses. You can't even see the display in his glasses, but he can. Scott Stein/CNETYou can hardly see what I'm doingOne of the most amazing things about Meta's Ray-Ban Display glasses is that you can't see a display projected in the right lens. Like, at all. My colleagues and I looked at the glasses worn by Meta's Alex Himel as he talked to me. The lenses appeared totally clear, with no rainbow-smudge-type patch usually seen on AR glasses. (That smudgy look is normally due to waveguides, which refract light from side-projected display engines.) The Ray-Ban Displays use LCOS, or liquid crystal on silicon, projection tech -- and the waveguides are remarkably invisible.This makes the idea of wearing these glasses in the real world intriguing. Maybe I could privately see things displayed and not weird anyone out. But what would people think when I suddenly start swiping my fingers in odd ways while staring off in the distance?
Meta's illustration of the display in the Ray-Ban Display glasses is a pretty good representation of what I saw. The display is only visible in one eye. MetaThe single 600x600-pixel color display on Ray-Ban Displays isn't very large. The field of view is only about 20 degrees, a fraction of what's normally on any pair of AR glasses. But Meta says it has a 42 pixel-per-degree density, which looks crisp enough. I was able to make out really small text on Spotify album cover art, for example.It's odd to have a display in just one eye, though. The sort of "half-there" experience makes the display feel a little hard to focus on at times. It looks projected a couple of feet in front of me.To make the display visible outdoors, Meta Ray-Ban Displays come with transition lenses by default. I stepped outside and saw my lenses dim, and I stared at the sun and could still make out the pop-up display in front of me.Meta promises a surprising six hours of mixed-use battery life for these Ray-Bans, which is more than I expected. However, take that with a grain of salt. I would assume that heavy use, especially with the display on, eats into that time.
The Meta Neural Band next to the glasses I wore (with their chunkier lens inserts put in just for me to see in this demo). Scott Stein/CNETNeural wristband feels like the start of a new paradigmI've been using hand gestures on my devices for a while, whether it's hand tracking on Meta Quest or Apple Vision Pro, or the growing number of gestures that Apple Watches support. Meta's snug little neural band, however, seems capable of doing a lot more. It's tech I've seen Meta evolving over the years. Mark Zuckerberg demoed it to me back in 2022. The snug fabric band fit me the same as when I tried it last year. It's meant to sit a bit past your wristbone, riding a little higher up than most watches. Inside, electrodes rest at various spots around your wrist. They measure electrical signals given off by motor neurons, even when making very subtle hand movements. Meta has trained the band's algorithms to detect forefinger and middle finger pinches, wrist turns and thumb swipes, while a closed fist "scrolls" back and forth or up and down.The pinches, taps and swipes really do work, even when my hand is resting out of sight. But the particular language of taps and swipes was sometimes confusing to remember. Unlike Meta's Orion glasses, these Ray-Bans have no eye tracking onboard. As a result, swiping to various app icons or parts of the display sometimes takes more effort than simply glancing and tapping, like on Orion or Apple Vision Pro.What I can also feel, very subtly, are vibrating haptics. Not much, but just enough to indicate that I've clicked on something. It's like a ghost of a feeling.
Meta's neural band has electrodes on the inside and fits snugly on my wrist. MetaI played music via Spotify, and then held my fingers together and turned them like a dial to increase and decrease volume. I digitally zoomed in using the display to take photos using the same twist-pinch gesture. I tapped to answer an incoming call from a Meta employee down the hall, which came in as a video chat. I could share my POV camera view at the same time. These Display Ray-Bans still have a touchpad on the side of the glasses and capture buttons, and they can work with voice commands just like other smart glasses. The neural band, however, is a necessary navigating tool for going through the menus in the display and finding apps in the OS. I practiced invoking the display to turn on with middle-finger pinches.The idea of suddenly having a way to do spontaneous gestures on the fly feels like a magic trick. If this band can work with more devices, it could feel like a universal interface. That's a big if, though. Meta's main hardware products are VR headsets and glasses, and it's hard to imagine how something like this could ever interface with a phone OS or a computer without a major tech platform partnership. Right now, that isn't on the table.But Meta promises the neural wristband could evolve into more uses. In a surprising demo, another team member wearing the band was handwriting messages with her finger on her pants leg. That's a feature expected to come in the future. I remember Meta's Reality Labs Research Chief Scientist Michael Abrash discussing the possibilities of this tech with me years ago. In the realm of accessibility, it's possible that neural input tech could even assist people with little to no motor function or loss of limbs. But right now, this neural band is designed to fit on a wrist. At Meta's campus, I spoke with athlete Jon White, a Paralympic trainee and triple amputee military vet who's been testing Orion and Meta's new glasses and neural band. He shared thoughts about how useful the glasses have been while kayaking, and also wondered about how this tech could extend further.I'm curious, though, if I'd even remember to wear the neural band. One more device to put on with smart glasses feels like a hassle. Meta doesn't have its own smartwatch, but a band like this would make sense as part of a watch. The screenless neural band fits comfortably enough, almost like a Whoop band. Meta says the band's battery lasts 18 hours on a charge. It is also IPX7 water resistant, so it could withstand a splash or brief submersion. Still, I imagine myself wearing a watch on one wrist and this neural band on the other, and that feels like a lot.
Live captions on the Ray-Ban Display glasses can isolate voices in a crowd. MetaApps: An unknown assortment, largely Meta-focusedThe big pitch for the Ray-Ban Display Glasses is doing a whole lot more in-glasses, possibly while not even looking at your phone. For the most part, the apps I saw demos of are based on Meta's platform. Communicating comes from WhatsApp and Messenger. Meanwhile, Meta AI provides AI assistance for live captioning or heads-up display-enabled informational search. In another demo, I was sent an Instagram video link about my beloved New York Jets. I watched a clip from a Jets-Pats playoff game circa 2011, something I remember also doing in Meta Orion glasses.Smart glasses are only as good as the services they can smartly work with. I already find Meta Ray-Bans surprisingly good, but also quite limited. They can't see my emails, or my notes, or lots of things I do on my phone. They run their own AI that isn't the same as other AI tools or platforms I might be using from Google or Apple.
Meta's images of things I demoed in-display aren't exactly the same thing: They only appear in one eye, which sometimes feels a bit weird. MetaWill Meta gather enough app developers to make these Ray Ban Display Glasses feel rich enough to truly make me open my phone less? I don't know. Some ideas wowed me. Video chats in-glasses can share my POV, opening up some interesting ideas for telepresence or assistance. Also, an impressive live captioning mode showed me conversational captions from people in the room in real time while also focusing on the conversation I was looking at and filtering out the others.Meta has maps on these glasses, too, with real-time navigation that can show me directions. I saw maps on Google's prototype display glasses last year, so this idea isn't new, though Meta's glasses are the first to arrive. But, again, I use Google Maps as a search engine. Will Meta's maps feel as connected to my search interests, or will it even know where my home or friends' homes are?Some AI functions are also just weird. I was invited to have Meta AI generate a new version of a photo of Alex Himmel on the fly, in a pop art style. Inexplicably, Meta AI then suggested I add a "sugar vortex," and then pastries, a giant mushroom and a frog waiter. I kept adding stuff. I made a bizarre photo, but why?Meta AI can do some helpful contextual things, though, which can sometimes save time. I asked about Justin Fields' stats for the Jets, and the little button suggestions below brought up career stats, and stats as a Bears quarterback, just in case I wanted to feel a little sadder about my fan tendencies.
MetaIs the augmented-body future already here?You can probably tell I have a lot of questions about these glasses. That's because the further Meta pushes into utility and true wearable computing, the more it faces an uphill challenge integrating its glasses' vision into the phones we're already carrying in our pockets. Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses connect to phones using Bluetooth 5.3 and Wi-Fi 6, but likely in a similar way that existing Ray-Bans do: with a limited range of direct hook-ins to the phone apps we use regularly.These glasses look and feel a lot more impressive than I was expecting, but they're also a functional step down from the Orion dream of last year, a vision that Meta says it's still working on. In the meantime, what will wearing these glasses mean for everyday life? Will I swipe, tap and glance as I walk into a supermarket or drop my kid off at school? Will I find all these things I can do or invoke feel like possibilities or distractions? It seems like the start of body augmentation with tech in a whole new and expansive way. Meta won't be the only one to do this. The conversations laid out back in the Google Glass days are starting again, now. And neural tech, still in its infancy, is going to grow. After the wrist, what else will be possible? Will Mark Zuckerberg's plans for making these glasses cognitive extensions really ever work? And even if they do, how will that impact all of us?
MetaPersonally, I'm also a bit sad that I can't wear them as everyday glasses yet. The lack of a deeper range of prescription support means I may have to wear contacts to test these Ray-Bans in a few weeks. For my demo, Meta provided prescription inserts that added to the lens's thickness, and generally worked fine, but inserts aren't available for anyone to order. It's just another sign that the Ray-Ban Displays, currently a US-only product until early 2026, are also very much a work in progress.For most people, the more affordable everyday Ray-Ban and Oakley smart glasses, which have been upgraded to have better eight-hour battery life and better cameras, are the way to go. But at $799, these are a surprisingly affordable way to put your foot in the door of a future that feels full of uncertainty and possibility. I just have so many questions about that future, despite my many times seeing pieces of it arrive.
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.