FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityFBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 19, 2025
12:43 PM
0
The FBI warned today that cybercriminals are impersonating its Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) website in what the law enforcement agency described as "possible malicious activity."
Although it didn't share any examples and didn't point to specific attacks, the FBI said that such spoofed websites could be used by attackers in financial scams or to steal the visitors' personal information.
"Threat actors create spoofed websites often by slightly altering characteristics of legitimate website domains, with the purpose of gathering personally identifiable information entered by a user into the site, including name, home address, phone number, email address, and banking information," the FBI said.
"For example, spoofed website domains may feature alternate spellings of words or use an alternative top-level domain to impersonate a legitimate website."
While the FBI didn't link to any domains spoofing the Crime Complaint Center website, BleepingComputer has found several examples hosted at icc3[.]live, practicinglawyer[.]net, and ic3a[.]com.
Ironically, the first also shows a warning notice that's currently displayed on the legitimate IC3 site, warning of scammers impersonating FBI IC3 employees to 'help' recover lost funds.
IC3 website spoofed by scammers (BleepingComputer)
This alert was part of a public service announcement issued by the FBI in April, which was prompted by over 100 reports received between December 2023 and February 2025 of fraudsters using this tactic.
To defend yourself from similar scam attempts, the FBI recommends always entering www.ic3.gov in your web browser's address bar instead of using a search engine and avoiding clicking on sponsored search results, as they're often paid by scammers trying to redirect traffic to their own phishing pages from legitimate sites.
Additionally, never share your personal information with individuals met online or over the phone, and never send them money, cryptocurrency, gift cards, or other financial assets.
The FBI added that IC3 or FBI employees will never contact victims directly via phone, email, social media, mobile apps, or public forums, and will never ask for payment to recover stolen funds or refer victims to companies that require payment for fund recovery.
In April, the Spanish National Police arrested six suspects who contacted the victims of their cryptocurrency investment scam, posing as Europol agents or U.K. lawyers and asking them to pay local tax costs to recover their lost funds.
Two years ago, the FBI also warned that scammers impersonating government or law enforcement officials were using fake credentials and spoofing authentic phone numbers to extort money from potential victims or steal personally identifiable information.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
FBI warns of scammers posing as crypto exchange employeesPolice seizes $439 million stolen by cybercrime rings worldwideCISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploitAmerican Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted mediaGoogle confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Cybercrime
FBI
Financial Theft
IC3
Identity Theft
Impersonation
Spoofing
Warning
Website
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT