Sass Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
Sass
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
48 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article Compiling Multiple CSS Files into One
css preprocessors node postcss Sass
Compiling Multiple CSS Files into One
Stu Robson outlines two ways to compile multiple CSS files when you aren't relying on Sass for it.
Geoff Graham
on
Sep 11, 2025
Direct link to the article Breaking Boundaries: Building a Tangram Puzzle With (S)CSS
CSS games Sass
Breaking Boundaries: Building a Tangram Puzzle With (S)CSS
We put it to the test and it turns out Sass can replace JavaScript, at least when it comes to low-level logic and puzzle behavior. With nothing but maps, mixins, functions, and a whole lot of math, we managed to bring our Tangram puzzle to life, no JavaScript required.
Sladjana Stojanovic
on
Jun 12, 2025
Direct link to the article Compiling CSS With Vite and Lightning CSS
deployment DevTools Sass
Compiling CSS With Vite and Lightning CSS
Are partials the only thing keeping you writing CSS in Sass? With a little configuration, it's possible to compile partial CSS files without a Sass dependency. Ryan Trimble has the details.
Ryan Trimble
on
Feb 3, 2025
Direct link to the article How I Made an Icon System Out of CSS Custom Properties
custom properties Sass SVG svg icons
How I Made an Icon System Out of CSS Custom Properties
SVG is the best format for icons on a website, there is no doubt about that. It allows you to have sharp icons no matter the screen pixel density, you can change the styles of the SVG on hover …
Louis Hoebregts
on
Sep 28, 2022
Direct link to the article A Practical Tip For Using Sass Default Parameters
mixins Sass
A Practical Tip For Using Sass Default Parameters
Sass offers functions and mixins that accept parameters. You can use Sass default parameters, that is, parameters that have a value even if you don’t provide them when the function or mixin is called.
Let’s focus on mixins here. …
Chris Coyier
on
Jan 13, 2022
Direct link to the article How I Made a Generator for SVG Loaders With Sass and SMIL Options
generator loader Sass SMIL SVG
How I Made a Generator for SVG Loaders With Sass and SMIL Options
While learning Vue.js, I started building free web tools that involved the exploration of SVG, with the goal of learning something about both! Let’s take a look at one of those tools: a generator that makes SVG loaders and …
Mariana Beldi
on
Aug 26, 2021
Direct link to the article Efficient Infinite Utility Helpers Using Inline CSS Custom Properties and calc()
custom properties mixins Sass sass maps
Efficient Infinite Utility Helpers Using Inline CSS Custom Properties and calc()
I recently wrote a very basic Sass loop that outputs several padding and margin utility classes. Nothing fancy, really, just a Sass map with 11 spacing values, looped over to create classes for both padding and margin on each side. …
Andy Ford
on
Aug 9, 2021
Direct link to the article Creating Stylesheet Feature Flags With Sass !default
Sass
Creating Stylesheet Feature Flags With Sass !default
!default is a Sass flag that indicates conditional assignment to a variable — it assigns a value only if the variable was previously undefined or null. Consider this code snippet:
$variable: 'test' !default;
To the Sass compiler, this line …
Nathan Babcock
on
May 14, 2021
Direct link to the article Comparing Styling Methods in 2020
css modules css-in-js less postcss Sass stylus
Comparing Styling Methods in 2020
Over on Smashing, Adebiyi Adedotun Lukman covers all these styling methods. It’s in the context of Next.js, which is somewhat important as Next.js has some specific ways you work with these tools, is React and, thus, is a components-based …
Chris Coyier
on
Oct 20, 2020
1
2
3
...
6
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top