CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders | Nature
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
My Account
Login
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
articles
article
CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders
Download PDF
Article
Published: 17 September 2025
CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders
Serena Tamura1,2 na1, Andrew D. Nelson3,4 na1, Perry W. E. Spratt3,4 na1, Elizabeth C. Hamada
ORCID: orcid.org/0009-0008-0614-81413,4, Xujia Zhou1,2, Henry Kyoung3,4, Zizheng Li1,2, Coline Arnould1,2, Vladyslav Barskyi1,2, Beniamin Krupkin
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-7457-73421,2, Kiana Young1,2, Jingjing Zhao1,2, Stephanie S. Holden4,5, Atehsa Sahagun
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-7521-32793,4, Caroline M. Keeshen3,4, Congyi Lu6, Roy Ben-Shalom3,4, Sunrae E. Taloma
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-7210-86143,4, Selin Schamiloglu3,4, Ying C. Li
ORCID: orcid.org/0009-0009-4792-83363,4, Lia Min
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-3977-16847, Paul M. Jenkins
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-4207-58237,8, Jen Q. Pan6, Jeanne T. Paz
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-6339-81304,5, Stephan J. Sanders
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-9112-51483,9,10, Navneet Matharu1,2, Nadav Ahituv
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-7434-81441,2 & …Kevin J. Bender
ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0001-7084-15323,4 Show authors
Nature
(2025)Cite this article
5239 Accesses
165 Altmetric
Metrics details
Subjects
Autism spectrum disordersChannelopathiesDevelopmental disordersGene regulation
AbstractMost neurodevelopmental disorders with single gene diagnoses act via haploinsufficiency, in which only one of the two gene copies is functional1. SCN2A haploinsufficiency is one of the most frequent causes of neurodevelopmental disorder, often presenting with autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disability and, in a subset of children, refractory epilepsy2. Here, using SCN2A haploinsufficiency as a proof-of-concept, we show that upregulation of the existing functional gene copy through CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) can rescue neurological-associated phenotypes in Scn2a haploinsufficient mice. We first show that restoring Scn2a expression in adolescent heterozygous Scn2a conditional knock-in mice rescues electrophysiological deficits associated with Scn2a haploinsufficiency (Scn2a+/−). Next, using an adeno-associated virus CRISPRa-based treatment in adolescent mice, we show that we can correct intrinsic and synaptic deficits in neocortical pyramidal cells, a major cell type that contributes to neurodevelopmental disorders and seizure aetiology in SCN2A haploinsufficiency. Furthermore, we find that systemic delivery of CRISPRa protects Scn2a+/− mice against chemoconvulsant-induced seizures. Finally, we also show that adeno-associated virus CRISPRa treatment rescues excitability in SCN2A haploinsufficient human stem-cell-derived neurons. Our results showcase the potential of this therapeutic approach to rescue SCN2A haploinsufficiency and demonstrates that rescue even at adolescent stages can ameliorate neurodevelopmental phenotypes.
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
Similar content being viewed by others
Scn1a gene reactivation after symptom onset rescues pathological phenotypes in a mouse model of Dravet syndrome
Article
Open access
10 January 2022
CRISPRi-based screen of autism spectrum disorder risk genes in microglia uncovers roles of ADNP in microglia endocytosis and synaptic pruning
Article
Open access
06 April 2025
Highly efficient neuronal gene knockout in vivo by CRISPR-Cas9 via neonatal intracerebroventricular injection of AAV in mice
Article
Open access
08 February 2021
MainNeurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), including intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and early-onset epilepsy, affect over 3% of the general population in the USA3. Recent advances in gene discovery have facilitated the identification of 387 high-confidence genes associated with NDDs from autosomal germline de novo variants4,5,6. Altogether, 227 of these NDD genes are either known or predicted to cause ASD due to haploinsufficiency, in which the messenger RNA/protein levels from the residual gene copy are insufficient to enable the typical function of the gene1. Gene replacement therapy could potentially restore transcriptional balance and rectify deficits in haploinsufficient diseases by delivering functional gene copies. However, in most NDD-related genes, traditional gene therapy vectors cannot be used. Gene therapy relies primarily on using recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) for transgene delivery owing to the limited pathogenicity and long-term transgene expression of the virus7. However, rAAV has a limited packaging capacity (4,700-base pair (bp) optimal packaging capacity minus about 1,700 bp needed for transgene expression)8. Examination of the coding sequence length of the 227 haploinsufficient NDD-associated genes shows that 117 exceed rAAV vector capacity (Supplementary Table 1), excluding them from traditional gene replacement therapy approaches9.Here we tested whether cis-regulation therapy (CRT) could be a viable approach for treating NDD-associated haploinsufficiency. CRT uses a nuclease-deficient gene-editing system, such as a ‘dead’ Cas9 (dCas9), fused to a transcriptional modulator to target gene regulatory elements (such as promoters or enhancers) and alter gene expression10. For this study, we used dCas9 fused to a transcriptional activator, termed CRISPR activation (CRISPRa), to upregulate gene expression and correct haploinsufficiency by targeting a gene promoter. For our proof-of-concept, we used NDD-associated haploinsufficiency of the sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 2 (SCN2A), a gene with a 6-kilobase (kb)-long coding sequence9. Variants in this gene can enhance channel function, resulting in neonatal-onset seizure phenotypes, or inhibit channel function, resulting in SCN2A-related NDDs2. Loss-of-function (LoF) variants in SCN2A are one of the most prevalent genetically defined subsets of NDD, with an estimated incidence of around 300 births per year in the USA (about 1 in 12,000 births)5. SCN2A-related NDDs are characterized by severe intellectual disability, global developmental delay, ASD and seizures that can be refractory to traditional treatment methods2.SCN2A encodes the neuronal voltage-gated sodium channel, NaV1.2, which is broadly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), including in neocortical excitatory pyramidal cells whose dysfunction is implicated in NDD aetiology11. In the first year of life in humans and before postnatal day (P) 7 in mice, NaV1.2 has an essential role as the primary NaV responsible for action potential (AP) initiation in pyramidal cell axons12. After this period, NaV1.2 is enriched throughout the somatic and dendritic domains in addition to the most proximal region of the axon initial segment (AIS)13. Scn2a haploinsufficiency in mice—either from birth (constitutive) or conditionally induced after P7—results in impairments in dendritic intrinsic excitability and excitatory synapse function13,14 (Fig. 1a). This suggests that NaV1.2 actively helps to maintain dendritic function throughout life and raises the possibility that rescue from Scn2a haploinsufficiency can be therapeutic, even if such a rescue is administered later in life.Fig. 1: Genetic rescue of Scn2a haploinsufficiency in adolescent mice rescues electrophysiological deficits.a, Summary of Scn2a haploinsufficiency effects on mouse mPFC layer 5b pyramidal neurons (L5PNs). b, Strategy for genetic restoration of Scn2a in Scn2a+/KI conditional knock-in model. c, 2PLSM z-stack of layer 5 mPFC in acute slice from Scn2a+/KI mouse without Cre injection. Arrows highlight GFP-negative, presumptive interneurons. d, Schematic of rAAV-EF1α-Cre-mCherry injection into the mPFC of P30 Scn2a+/KI mice. Electrophysiological and imaging experiments in Scn2a+/KI and control mice were performed between P60 and P70. e, APs per 300-ms stimulation epoch across a range of current amplitudes in Scn2a+/KI Cre-negative (green) and Scn2a+/KI Cre-positive (red) L5PNs. f, Left, representative phase-plane plots (dV/dt versus voltage) of somatic APs across conditions. Right, peak dV/dt of the first AP evoked by a near-rheobase current. n = 44 Scn2a+/+, 37 Scn2a+/−, 30 Scn2a+/KI Cre−, 21 Scn2a+/KI Cre+ cells. ****P < 0.0001, *P = 0.02, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. g, Left, 2PLSM imaging of bAP-evoked Ca transients (doublet bursts) in L5PN apical dendrites (more than 400 µm from soma) across conditions. Right, Ca transient amplitude of the first of five bursts (top) and area under the curve (AUC) (bottom). n = 49 Scn2a+/+, 23 Scn2a+/−, 29 Scn2a+/KI Cre−, 26 Scn2a+/KI Cre+ imaging sites across ≥7 L5PNs per condition from ≥2 animals. ****P < 0.0001, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. h, Left, AMPA and mixed AMPA/NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs at −80 and +30 mV, respectively. NMDA receptor-mediated component measured 50 ms after stimulation (dotted line). Right, quantification of AMPA:NMDA ratio. n = 8 Scn2a+/+, 9 Scn2a+/−, 8 Scn2a+/KI Cre−, 9 Scn2a+/KI Cre+ cells. *P = 0.02, **P = 0.004, ***P = 0.009, ****P = 0.002, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are single cells (f,h) or single imaging sites (g); box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. Scale bars, 50 μm (a), 5 μm (a, inset), 20 μm (c). bAP, backpropagating action potential; %ΔG/Gsat, per cent change in green fluorescence, calibrated to maximal change; KI, knockin; KO, knockout; 2P, 2-photon.Source DataFull size imageAs the intrinsic and synaptic deficits of SCN2A haploinsufficiency can be readily measured by means of electrophysiology, we hypothesized that SCN2A could provide an efficient and quantifiable model for CRT-based interventions. We administered rAAV-based CRISPRa targeting the Scn2a promoter to Scn2a heterozygous null mice and neurons differentiated from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs)15 and demonstrate that this approach can rescue excitability deficits in both models. In mice, we also observed that CRISPRa can rescue these deficits at adolescent stages and protect Scn2a heterozygous mice against chemoconvulsant-induced seizures. Combined, our work showcases a potential therapeutic approach that could be applied to many genes that, when haploinsufficient, are associated with NDDs and suggests that rescue later in life could ameliorate electrophysiological phenotypes associated with Scn2a haploinsufficiency.Adolescent Scn2a rescue is therapeuticTo test the feasibility of increasing functional gene copy number to rescue the electrophysiological deficits associated with Scn2a haploinsufficiency, we first developed a conditional knock-in mouse line. In this mouse, termed Scn2a+/KI, exons 3–5 of one Scn2a allele were flipped and flanked by LoxP sites, with an eGFP sequence in frame to visualize cells that express Scn2a (Fig. 1b). Acute slices were made from these animals, and neurons were visualized with two-photon laser scanning microscopy (2PLSM) of GFP fluorescence against a background image of neuropil imaged with 2PSLM scanning differential interference contrast (DIC) imaging (Fig. 1c). GFP-positive neurons targeted for whole-cell recordings had electrophysiological features indicative of Scn2a+/− pyramidal cells, including a decrease in the peak change in voltage during AP depolarization (peak dV/dt) relative to Scn2a+/+ controls (Fig. 1c–f). Moreover, parvalbumin-positive interneurons were GFP-negative, consistent with known NaV1.2 functional expression patterns13,16 (Extended Data Fig. 1).Previously, we showed that inducing Scn2a haploinsufficiency during adolescence impairs intrinsic and synaptic function14. To test whether these deficits can be rescued by gene reinstatement during adolescence, we injected rAAV-EF1α-Cre-mCherry into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of these Scn2a+/KI mice around P30 (Fig. 1d). After at least 4 weeks, to allow for transgene expression, mCherry-positive neurons were targeted for whole-cell recordings in acute slices. In the presence of Cre, several measures of neuronal and synaptic function were comparable to those found in wild-type (WT) mice, including peak AP dV/dt, AP-burst-evoked calcium influx in the apical dendritic tuft and AMPA:NMDA ratio, which is a common proxy for synapse strength and is abnormally low in Scn2a+/− cells13 (Fig. 1f–h). Together, these data show that features of intrinsic and synaptic function that depend directly and indirectly on proper NaV1.2 function can be restored to WT levels upon reactivation of the second allele in adolescent stages. They also suggest that the development of a CRT approach to increase the expression of the functional SCN2A allele could rescue deficits caused by haploinsufficiency.
Scn2a-CRISPRa optimization in vitroTo optimize an rAAV-based CRISPRa approach to rescue Scn2a haploinsufficiency, nine different single-guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting the Scn2a promoter were screened for their ability to upregulate Scn2a in mouse neuroblastoma cells (Neuro-2a). Guides were co-transfected with a Staphylococcus aureus (sa) dCas9 fused to the transcriptional activator VP64 (Supplementary Table 2). sadCas9-VP64 is compact in size (3.3 kb), allowing it to fit into an rAAV vector, and has been shown to promote upregulation to therapeutic levels in other forms of haploinsufficiency17. Three sgRNAs increased Scn2a mRNA levels and were packaged into an rAAV-DJ serotype vector, which provides high expression levels in many cell types and tissues, including neurons18. rAAV-sgRNA viruses were then co-transduced with the rAAV-sadCas9-VP64 activator, both using the adeno-associated virus (AAV)-DJ serotype, into Neuro-2a cells for 5 days. One of the three rAAV-sgRNAs was found to increase Scn2a mRNA expression by twofold and was selected for subsequent mouse studies (Extended Data Fig. 2a,b).To test for off-target effects, we carried out RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) using two biological replicates and three technical replicates for each condition (six samples per condition) and analysed the mRNA expression of all genes in the same topologically associated domain (TAD) and all Scn sodium channel genes following plasmid CRISPRa transfection into Neuro-2a cells. We observed that Scn2a was the only upregulated gene in its TAD and also the only upregulated Scn sodium channel compared with negative control using RNA-seq (Extended Data Fig. 3a–c). We observed more genes to be upregulated compared with the negative control, with gene ontology (GO) analysis showing an enrichment for viral response (Extended Data Fig. 3d,e), probably from our AAV infection. In addition, we analysed differentially expressed genes that are close to (10 kb) sgRNA sequence off-targets using Cas-OFFinder19 with sequences up to three mismatches and two bulges. With these criteria, we found six differentially expressed genes from our RNA-seq (Extended Data Fig. 3f). These include Ptpn14 and one transcript with unknown function (ENSMUSG00000125254) which have a sequence hit with three mismatches and one bulge near the gene. We also found three genes (Zfp697, Ifi44l and Csmd1) and one transcript (Gm17131) with unknown function that have three mismatches and two bulges. Thus, the odds of the Scn2a-targeted sgRNA binding are low. Furthermore, Ptpn14 regulates cell proliferation and is not known to have a major functional role in the brain20. The three other genes are related to viral response: Zfp697 is involved in the mediation of interferon-γ response in muscle cells21, Ifi44l is interferon-induced and involved in anti-viral response22 and Csmd1 is a complement inhibitor23 that was downregulated. In summary, our results show that Scn2a is significantly upregulated with minimal off-target effects using our CRISPRa approach.Cell-autonomous CRT in Scn2a
+/− miceTo test whether Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa (rAAV-sadCas9-VP64 + rAAV-Scn2a-sgRNA) could be used as a therapeutic intervention for Scn2a haploinsufficiency in adolescent mice, we stereotaxically injected Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa into the mPFC of constitutive Scn2a+/− mice at about P30 (Supplementary Table 3). Mice were injected unilaterally in one hemisphere and the opposite hemisphere was used as a biologically matched uninjected control (Fig. 2a,b). As a negative (no sgRNA) control, Scn2a+/− mice were co-injected with rAAV-sadCas9-VP64 along with an rAAV-mCherry (termed empty vector). At least 4 weeks after injection, the mPFCs of the injected and uninjected hemispheres were dissected and extracted for quantitative PCR (qPCR) analysis and electrophysiological recordings. Scn2a+/− mice injected with Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa showed an upregulation of Scn2a mRNA of around 1.5-fold by means of reverse transcription quantitative PCR(RT–qPCR) compared with the uninjected hemisphere, whereas rAAV-empty-mCherry-injected mice showed no upregulation of Scn2a mRNA expression (Fig. 2c).Fig. 2: Intracranial Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa in mPFC rescues excitability deficits in Scn2a+/− neurons.a, CRT design to rescue Scn2a haploinsufficiency. b, Local injection of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa (viruses injected in brackets) and coronal section detailing injection site, stained for mCherry and DAPI. c, RT–qPCR of Scn2a mRNA across conditions. n = 9 Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa, 6 Scn2a+/+ + empty, 10 Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa, 5 Scn2a+/− + empty: 1.0 ± 0.06, n = 5 mice. **P = 0.0016, ***P = 0.0007, Mann–Whitney test. d, AP phase-plane plots of CRT-treated and empty-treated Scn2a+/+ and Scn2a+/− mice. Populations also compared with interleaved, uninjected controls. n = 16 Scn2a+/+, 12 Scn2a+/−, 24 Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa, 19 Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa, 17 Scn2a+/+ + empty and 27 Scn2a+/− + empty cells. ****P < 0.0001, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. e, AMPA:NMDA ratio, as in Fig. 1h, for Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa (mCherry+, purple, n = 7) and Scn2a+/− (mCherry−, cyan, n = 4) internal controls. Grey bar: 95% confidence interval of Scn2a+/+ control data from ref. 13. **P = 0.006, Mann–Whitney Wilcoxon test. f, bAP-evoked Ca imaging, as in Fig. 1g, in L5PNs from P55 to P84 Scn2a+/+ (black, n = 38 sites, 11 cells, 5 mice), Scn2a+/− (cyan, n = 40 sites, 11 cells, 5 mice), Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa (purple, n = 18 sites, 5 cells, 5 mice) and Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa (grey, n = 29 sites, 8 cells, 8 mice). **P = 0.0002, ***P = 0.0004, ****P < 0.0001, mixed-effect model, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are animals (c), single cells (d,e) or imaging sites (f); box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. Scale bars, 1 mm (b), 100 μm (f). NS, not significant.Source DataFull size imageTo assess the phenotypic effects of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa on neuronal excitability, acute slices from the mPFC were dissected 4 weeks after injection and electrophysiological recordings were carried out from neurons in these slices. AP waveforms, measured with somatic current-clamp recordings, are sensitive to Scn2a expression levels in single cells, with peak dV/dt being directly proportional to NaV1.2 density at the somatic membrane13,24. We found that peak dV/dt was restored to WT levels in mCherry-positive neurons in CRISPRa-treated Scn2a+/− mice (Fig. 2d). mCherry-negative neurons, recorded either from the same slices or in interleaved constitutive controls, showed dV/dt values expected for Scn2a+/+ and Scn2a+/− neurons, respectively. Similarly, no upregulation in dV/dt was noted in mCherry-positive empty vector controls (Fig. 2d). Other aspects of neuronal excitability were stable (Extended Data Fig. 4).Scn2a haploinsufficiency is also known to impair dendritic excitability and excitatory synapse function. We found that P30 Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa administration was able to rescue these impairments. AMPA:NMDA ratio was rescued to WT levels (Fig. 2e). Similarly, AP-evoked calcium transients in distal apical dendrites, which are readily observed in WT but not Scn2a+/− cells, were also restored (Fig. 2f). This suggests that CRT may be effective for Scn2a to help to re-engage such processes in the mPFC.Systemic CRT in Scn2a
+/− miceWe next explored the feasibility of intravenous systemic rAAV-CRISPRa delivery, as it is a more clinically translatable delivery approach. Scn2a+/− mice were injected, either through the tail vein or the retro-orbital sinus, with Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa constructs (sadCas9-VP64 and Scn2a-sgRNA) packaged using the PHP.eB rAAV serotype, which can readily pass through the blood–brain barrier in C57BL/6 mice and provide robust brain transgene expression. Mice injected at P30 through the tail vein or retro-orbital sinus showed widespread expression throughout the brain when collected more than 4 weeks later (Fig. 3a,b). To test for off-target effects, we carried out RNA-seq on nuclei from cortical neurons sorted from WT, Scn2a+/− and Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa Scn2a+/− PHP.eB rAAV serotype-injected mice using three mice per condition (Methods). We then analysed the mRNA expression of all genes in the same TAD and all Scn sodium channel genes. We observed that Scn2a showed an upregulated trend that was not significant after correcting for multiple testing in the Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa Scn2a+/−-injected mice compared with Scn2a+/− -uninjected mice and no other gene in its TAD or Scn sodium channel gene showed significant differential expression compared with the WT and Scn2a+/− mice (Extended Data Fig. 5a). In contrast to our in vitro RNA-seq, we did not observe any viral response-associated differentially expressed genes (Extended Data Fig. 5b–e). Differentially expressed genes between Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa Scn2a+/−-injected and Scn2a+/−-uninjected mice included dCas9 and mCherry along with a handful of transcripts that represent genes of unknown function. In addition, we analysed sgRNA sequence off-targets with sequences up to three mismatches and two bulges. With these criteria, we found only one putative off-target with three mismatches and two bulges, nearby to a downregulated gene, Ptchd4, a negative regulator of the hedgehog pathway25 (Extended Data Fig. 5f). This gene did not have a significant expression difference when comparing Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa Scn2a+/−-injected mice with the WT. Our inability to observe significant upregulation for Scn2a in the RNA-seq data from Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa could be because of its low expression levels and manifestation in specific neuronal cell types26 as well as the last Scn2a exon having high similarity to Scn1a, Scn3a and Scn9a (ranging from 92% to 96% identity). Both attributes probably ‘dilute’ its expression levels in RNA-seq despite sorting neurons from the cortex. However, we should note that we observed significant upregulation by means of RT–qPCR for Scn2a for numerous mice injected with Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa, through either local or systemic injection (Fig. 2c and Extended Data Fig. 2d), and Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa dual vector components were detected in the RNA-seq and until 460 days (16 months) by means of RT–qPCR, demonstrating the long-term, persistent AAV transgene expression (Extended Data Fig. 6).Fig. 3: Systemic CRT rescues electrophysiological deficits and is protective against chemoconvulsant-induced seizure.a, Schematic of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-PHP.eB intravenous tail vein delivery. Viruses injected described in brackets. b, Sagittal brain section from P80 Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa mouse following tail vein injection of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-PHP.eB at P30, stained for mCherry and DAPI. c, Peak AP dV/dt from P82 to P241 Scn2a+/+ (black, n = 44), Scn2a+/− (cyan, n = 37) and tail vein Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-PHP.eB-injected Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa (grey, n = 23) and Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa (purple, n = 20) L5PNs. ****P < 0.0001, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. d, AMPA:NMDA ratio from P79 to P85 Scn2a+/+ and Scn2a+/− uninjected controls (left) and P82 to P241 Scn2a-CRISPRa-PHP.eB-treated Scn2a+/+ and Scn2a+/− mice (right). n = 7, 14, 11, 13 cells, respectively. *P < 0.05, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test versus Scn2a+/−. e, Left, modelled distribution of NaV1.2 and NaV1.6 across AIS, soma and proximal apical dendrite. Middle, AP phase-plane plots with varying NaV1.2 plasma membrane densities. Right, predicted peak AP dV/dt as a function of NaV1.2 expression levels. f, Empirical measurements of peak AP dV/dt in Scn2a+/+, Scn2a+/− and Scn2a−/− L5PNs compared with Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa. Scn2a+/+, Scn2a+/− and Scn2a−/− values are from ref. 24. Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa are merged local and tail vein peak dV/dt values. Data placed at 175% of WT based on PCR upregulation (Fig. 2c). Scn2a+/+ versus Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa; P = 0.5, Mann–Whitney test. g, EEG from screws placed above PFC in naive or CRISRPa-treated WT and Scn2a+/− mice receiving 8 mg kg−1 4-AP at onset of recording. h, Expansion of grey bar area in g. Red marks denote automated identification of ictal-like activity. i, Ictal spikes, binned per 5 min, across groups. Bars and shading are mean ± s.e.m. j, Events per animal at the peak of ictal event period. *P < 0.03, **P < 0.004, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are single cells (c,d,f) or animals (k); box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. Scale bar, 1 mm.Source DataFull size imageElectrophysiological analysis of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-PHP.eB-injected Scn2a+/− mice showed a rescue of AP peak dV/dt and AMPA:NMDA ratio, comparable to that of local stereotactic Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa treatment directly into the mPFC (Fig. 3c,d). Together, these data demonstrate the feasibility of systemic administration of rAAV-CRISPRa to rescue Scn2a haploinsufficiency-associated electrophysiological defects.
Scn2a upregulation is well toleratedGain-of-function missense variants in SCN2A are associated with several forms of epilepsy2. Thus, a major concern with a CRISPRa approach to rescue SCN2A haploinsufficiency is overexpression beyond normal physiological amounts, as this may result in hyperexcitability, similar to that observed with gain-of-function missense variants. To assess this, we administered CRISPRa intracranially to WT mice and assessed their cellular excitability. Intracranial Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa injection into mPFC upregulated Scn2a mRNA approximately 1.75-fold in WT mice (Fig. 2c). Compartmental models of pyramidal cells predicted that such increases in mRNA, if translated into NaV1.2 channels that incorporate into neuronal membranes, should increase peak dV/dt of APs (Fig. 3e). Indeed, AP velocity in such models was proportional to NaV1.2 membrane density from 0% to 200% of normal levels. In empirical studies, we observed a similar linear relationship between AP peak dV/dt and Scn2a copy number between 0% and 100% of normal levels; however, Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-treated Scn2a+/+ cells had peak dV/dt values that were no different than untreated controls (Fig. 3f). This suggests that maximal NaV1.2 function is regulated, perhaps by auxiliary subunits, scaffolding partners and post-translational modifications, and cannot exceed WT levels12, mirroring similar observations made with other approaches that increase expression of SCN1A27.CRT suppresses induced seizuresChildren with SCN2A haploinsufficiency can experience seizures after the first few months of life that are often refractory to treatment2. As such, there is a clear unmet need for treatment options that can reduce seizure burden in SCN2A haploinsufficiency. At the cellular level, these seizures may be due to loss of NaV1.2 expression in neocortical pyramidal cell dendrites, as marked reductions in Scn2a expression can increase intrinsic excitability in these cells through the loss of NaV1.2-supported activation of dendritic potassium channels that contribute to membrane repolarization during APs24,28. Furthermore, complete loss of NaV1.2 in layer 5 pyramidal cells is sufficient to generate seizure-like electroencephalography (EEG) activity in mice29, possibly through their interactions with potassium channels. Given these observations, we tested whether Scn2a haploinsufficient mice had increased sensitivity to the chemoconvulsant 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a non-selective blocker of delayed rectifier potassium channels that drive AP repolarization. Scn2a+/− mice exhibited a bias towards seizure-related behavioural activity at earlier times and at lower doses of 4-AP compared with WT (Extended Data Fig. 7). Simultaneous EEG in these mice showed that 4-AP administration, at an intermediate dose (8 mg kg−1), evoked ictal spikes in the frontal cortex that were associated with myoclonic jerking behaviour (Fig. 3g–j and Extended Data Fig. 7). These events peaked in frequency 30–40 min after 4-AP administration, but then subsided within an hour of dosing. At higher doses (15 mg kg−1), ictal spikes often preceded tonic–clonic seizures. To determine whether these seizures could be prevented with our CRT approach, we injected PHP.eB-based Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa systemically through the retro-orbital sinus at P30 and challenged mice with 8 mg kg−1 4-AP 42–65 days later. Remarkably, ictal spike frequency was reduced to levels observed in naive WT animals in CRT-treated Scn2a+/− mice (Fig. 3g–j).Using whole-cell electrophysiology, we found that CRISPRa-based Scn2a mRNA overexpression in WT neurons does not lead to increased NaV1.2 expression in membranes beyond normal WT levels (Fig. 3). Thus, mice should tolerate systemic Scn2a overexpression without increased seizure burden. To test this, we injected PHP.eB-based Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa into WT mice and assessed animal response to 4-AP as in Scn2a+/− mice. Ictal spike rates in these mice were comparable to those in untreated WT mice, suggesting that the ceiling placed on NaV1.2 density observed at the cellular level can help to ensure that CRT-based treatments do not inadvertently increase seizure burden.CRT in human SCN2A
+/− excitatory neuronsTo further investigate the translational potential of this approach, we tested the ability of SCN2A-rAAV-CRISPRa to rescue the electrophysiological phenotypes of SCN2A+/− neurons differentiated from hESCs. sgRNA constructs that target the human SCN2A promoter were designed in a similar strategy to those for mouse and screened for upregulation of SCN2A in a human neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y). One sgRNA out of the ten tested increased SCN2A mRNA by 1.5-fold or 1.3-fold following transient co-transfection with dCas9-VP64 or transduction by means of an rAAV-DJ serotype, respectively (Extended Data Fig. 8a,b). SCN2A+/+ and SCN2A+/− hESCs15 were differentiated into excitatory neurons using the SMADi STEMDiff forebrain differentiation and maturation protocol (Fig. 4a and Methods). Immunostaining of cells at day in vitro (DIV) 65 with MAP2 and GFAP suggested efficient neuronal differentiation alongside supporting glial cells (Fig. 4b).Fig. 4: SCN2A-rAAV-CRISPRa rescues spiking properties of SCN2A+/− hESC-derived neurons.a, Schematic of electrophysiological recording of CRISPRa-treated differentiated hESC-derived neurons. Cells were transduced at DIV 30, and experiments were performed at DIV 65–66. b, Differentiated SCN2A+/− hESC-derived neurons at DIV 65, immunostained with antibodies against the neuronal marker MAP2, the glial marker GFAP and DAPI. c, APs generated from a range of current amplitudes (0–340 pA, 10-pA intervals, 300 ms) in DIV 65–66 SCN2A+/+ (black), SCN2A+/− (cyan) and SCN2A-rAAV-CRISPRa-treated SCN2A+/− (purple) hESC-derived neurons. Arrows highlight spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials that occurred within the recording epoch. d, Left, DIC image of SCN2A+/− hESC-derived neuron and recording electrode. Right, AP (spikes) per 300-ms stimulation epoch versus current injection amplitude. SCN2A+/+ versus SCN2A+/−: ****P < 0.0001; SCN2A+/− versus SCN2A+/− + CRISPRa: ****P < 0.0001, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. e, Representative phase-plane plots and quantification of peak dV/dt in SCN2A+/+, SCN2A+/− and SCN2A-rAAV-CRISPRa-treated SCN2A+/− hESC-derived neurons. n = 18 SCN2A+/+, 18 SCN2A+/−, 13 SCN2A+/− + CRISPRa neurons. **P = 0.0014, ***P = 0.0004, ****P < 0.0001, Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are single cells; box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. Scale bar, 50 μm.Source DataFull size imageEarly in life, both human and rodent excitatory pyramidal cells rely on NaV1.2 expression in the AIS to support AP electrogenesis12. During this period, which persists over the first year in of life in humans, Scn2a haploinsufficiency suppresses AP output13. As such, CRT can be evaluated in hESCs by examining both AP waveform and AP output. At DIV 65–66, SCN2A+/+ neurons were mature enough to support repetitive AP activity (Fig. 4c). By contrast, AP electrogenesis was markedly blunted in SCN2A+/− neurons, with few evoked APs that had very low peak dV/dt values compared with interleaved controls (Fig. 4d,e). Furthermore, the AISs of these SCN2A+/− neurons were approximately 19% longer than those from SCN2A+/+ counterparts (Extended Data Fig. 9a,b), suggesting that these neurons are responding to reduced excitability by expanding this region associated with AP initiation12. SCN2A+/− neurons treated with SCN2A-rAAV-DJ-CRISPRa at DIV 30 had mRNA levels that were comparable to WT amounts (Extended Data Fig. 8c) and at DIV 65–66 exhibited a full recovery in AP output with a concomitant increase in peak dV/dt (Fig. 4c–e). Moreover, CRISPRa-infected SCN2A+/− initial segments were 19% shorter than those of uninfected SCN2A+/− neurons visualized in the same preparation, suggesting that AIS structural plasticity was reversed by CRISPRa treatment (Extended Data Fig. 9c,d). In conclusion, these data demonstrate that CRISPRa can provide a potential therapeutic benefit for SCN2A haploinsufficiency in human neuronal cell types, rescuing both electrical and structural aspects of neuronal excitability.DiscussionIt is thought that 227 high-confidence NDD-associated genes cause NDDs due to haploinsufficiency, with SCN2A haploinsufficiency being one of the most prevalent4. Here, we showed how a CRISPRa-based CRT approach could be used to rescue the electrophysiological deficits associated with SCN2A haploinsufficiency. First, using a Cre-induced rescue of Scn2a haploinsufficiency in adolescent mice, we showed the feasibility of this approach to provide a potential therapeutic during adolescence. Next, by direct stereotaxic mPFC and intravenous tail vein injections of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa, we upregulated Scn2a in adolescent Scn2a+/− mice and demonstrated rescue of several features of intrinsic excitability, including AP electrogenesis and associated activation of dendritic calcium channels, as well as synaptic efficacy, as measured by AMPA:NMDA ratio. Of note, these synaptic features were rescued with CRISPRa administration in early adolescence, suggesting both that Scn2a haploinsufficiency interrupts normal circuit refinement and that these processes can be reinitiated if normal levels of NaV1.2 are restored. Furthermore, we found that Scn2a+/− mice are susceptible to seizure induced by a potassium channel antagonist, and that such seizures can be prevented by CRISPRa treatment. Together, these results indicate that CRT is a viable therapeutic approach for SCN2A haploinsufficiency and could be a viable approach to mitigate treatment-refractory seizures observed in this patient population30.CRT has been successful in treating rodent models of both CNS and non-CNS haploinsufficiency-related disorders17,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38. In the case of sodium channel haploinsufficiency, CRT also overcomes two of the main limitations of traditional gene replacement therapy, rAAV packaging capacity and ectopic expression. Sodium channels are long genes whose complementary DNA length exceeds the rAAV payload capacity. Classical gene replacement therapy would require splitting the channel into two components using dual AAVs and placing a linker to connect them as was recently used for Scn1a39. CRT overcomes this limitation by packaging CRISPRa components that target the gene’s endogenous regulatory elements to upregulate its expression. In addition, results from a transgenic-based CRISPRa suggest that upregulation occurs only in the tissue/cell type where the targeted regulatory element is active17, providing further specificity to the rAAV serotype or promoter used to drive expression. In particular, this could be extremely beneficial for sodium channels that have similar protein structures yet have distinct functions in skeletal, cardiac, central nervous and peripheral nervous systems, which make it difficult to target specific isoforms pharmacologically without off-target effects40,41. An extra advantage is that CRT uses a nuclease-deficient DNA targeting molecule that does not edit the DNA, and thus off-target effects will not lead to ‘DNA scars’. The use of a CRISPR-based CRT approach could lead to immunogenicity due to the dCas9. However, there are many efforts to engineer Cas proteins with reduced immunogenicity by epitope masking42,43, or by use of alternate Cas proteins, such as those from non-pathogenic bacteria that have not been exposed to humans10. Alternatively, other DNA targeting molecules such as zinc fingers or transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENS), which should be less immunogenic and smaller in size44, could be used instead.A major goal of CRT is to achieve physiological levels of the modulated gene that provide therapeutic benefit. Obtaining levels that are too high could also have deleterious physiological effects, whereas levels too low may not be within the therapeutic window of efficacy. For SCN2A, this is of particular importance as gain-of-function variants are associated with epileptic encephalopathies2. Here, we intentionally used VP64 as the transcriptional activator to avoid excess NaV1.2 production, as it has modest upregulating potential. Furthermore, we assessed whether Scn2a overexpression through CRISPRa above normal physiological conditions affected brain function by upregulating Scn2a mRNA in WT mice. Heightened amounts of Scn2a mRNA did not correspond to elevated intrinsic or network neuronal hyperexcitability. We speculate that this could be because of a potential ceiling on total NaV1.2 membrane density, perhaps imposed by ancillary subunits, scaffolding partners or post-translational modifications12, whose regulation remains unchanged. Furthermore, we observed no electrophysiological effects or gene expression changes that would indicate that CRT altered the expression of other CNS sodium channel genes or genes that are in the Scn2a TAD region (Extended Data Fig. 3a,b).Treatments for NDDs would probably be most beneficial when administered early, ideally before symptom onset. Nevertheless, brain development is a dynamic process that spans several decades of life, and interventions administered even later in life could have some therapeutic benefit45. One example is an antisense oligonucleotide therapy for Angelman syndrome that improved communication and motor skills and reduced epileptiform discharges when administered to 4–17-year-old children46, despite work in rodent models suggesting that therapies should ideally be administered prenatally47,48. Scn2a haploinsufficiency in mice results in life-long, cell-autonomous impairments in neocortical pyramidal cell dendritic excitability and synapse function13. Here, we find that these impairments can be rescued with adolescent reactivation of a LoF allele (Fig. 1) or by CRT-based overexpression through the residual, functional allele (Figs. 2 and 3), suggesting that rescue of normal dendritic excitability can restore many aspects of neuronal function. Future work will help to clarify other Scn2a-dependent processes and the critical therapeutic periods needed to address various treatment outcomes across development.Here, we focused on seizure susceptibility as a primary behavioural outcome measure for CRT. Seizures are a major health concern in the SCN2A community, affecting an estimated 20–30% of children with LoF variants, and, by definition, all gain-of-function cases49. We found that 4-AP application resulted in a robust, sex-independent increase in ictal spiking in prefrontal cortex (PFC) EEG records that allowed for CRT evaluation in Scn2a+/− and safety in WT littermates (Fig. 3g–j). CRT treatment did not lead to any change in seizure burden in 4-AP-treated mice. This is critical, as it suggests that overexpression of Scn2a genes can be regulated, avoiding overexpression of NaV1.2 function at neuronal membranes. This places an intrinsic safety factor for Scn2a CRT implementation.In the future, it will be critical to evaluate CRT approaches further with other behaviours that better reflect NDD aspects of Scn2a haploinsufficiency. Unfortunately, the field has struggled to identify robust phenotypes in Scn2a+/− mice in commonly assessed behaviours13,50,51,52,53,54. Leveraging other model systems will probably be critical for assessing proper therapeutic developmental windows and safety profiles. Furthermore, several aspects of this approach will need to be optimized, including safety assessments of rAAV components, off-target CRISPRa effects, the use of non-human primates to assess efficient delivery, upregulation levels, cytotoxicity, immunogenicity and AAV toxicity and serotypes55,56. For the latter point, the PHP.eB serotype used here is effective only in specific mouse strains57, but recently described serotypes that pass the blood–brain barrier in non-human primates58 or low-intensity focused ultrasound59 to increase infiltration could potentially be used. In addition, it will be vital to confirm that the SCN2A variant to be treated causes a non-functional transcript, as this current approach upregulates both alleles. Last, it is important to note that this therapeutic approach is useful only for variants that lead to a complete LoF allele. Approaches that use allele-specific targeting could potentially be used to overcome this hurdle in cases in which the variant allele does not promote gain-of-function.In summary, this study shows how CRT using CRISPRa can rescue phenotypes in a genetic mouse model of a prevalent cause of NDDs. CRT is a customizable platform technology that can modify gene expression without directly editing the genome and can be tailored to rescue other disorders caused by haploinsufficiency. The application of CRT to treat SCN2A haploinsufficiency leverages a growing understanding of the genetic aetiology of NDDs and demonstrates a potential path forward for treating complex neurodevelopmental conditions through modern genetic medicine approaches.MethodsCRISPRa in vitro optimizationTen sgRNAs targeting the mouse Scn2a or human SCN2A promoters were designed using the Broad Institute’s GPP sgRNA Design Tool (Genetic Perturbation Platform, Broad Institute). These guides were individually cloned into pAAV-U6-sasgRNA-CMV-mCherry-WPREpA (Addgene, 217015) at the BstXI and XhoI restriction enzyme sites using the In-Fusion HD cloning kit (Clontech). rAAV vectors were generated using similar plasmids and cloning methods as described previously1. Mouse sgRNAs were tested in the neuroblastoma cell line Neuro-2a (ATCC CCL-131). Cells were grown in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s medium with 10% FBS and 1% penicillin-streptomycin, and SH-SY5Y cells were grown in Eagle’s minimum essential medium with 10% FBS and 1% penicillin-streptomycin, following ATCC guidelines. Cells were transiently co-transfected with individual sgRNAs cloned into pAAV-U6-sasgRNA-CMV-mCherry-WPREpA along with pCMV-sadCas9-VP64 (Addgene, 115790) for 48 h using Opti-MEM Reduced Serum Medium (Thermo Fisher) and X-tremeGENE HP (Sigma-Aldrich). RNA was isolated using the RNeasy Mini Kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer’s protocol. cDNA was synthesized using SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis System (Invitrogen) and qPCR was conducted using SsoFast EvaGreen Supermix (Bio-Rad) and analysed using the ΔΔCT methods, comparing with a no-sgRNA transfection and normalized to Actb as a housekeeping gene. rAAVs were produced at the Stanford Gene Vector and Viral Core (see Supplementary Table 3 for genomic titre).RNA-seqFor cell culture RNA-seq, we used two biological replicates and three technical replicates for each condition (six samples per condition) from Neuro-2a treated with either rAAV-sadCas9-VP64 (negative control) or rAAV-sadCas9-VP64 + rAAV-Scn2a-sgRNA. For mouse RNA-seq, cortices were dissected from WT and heterozygous mice, with or without rAAV-sadCas9-VP64 + rAAV-Scn2a-sgRNA injection, three mice per condition. For each sample, nuclei were isolated from approximately 200 mg of cortex using the Singulator 100 System (S2 Genomics) with the Single Shot Standard Nuclei Isolation v.2 program. The isolation was performed in 3 ml of lysis buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.4; 10 mM NaCl; 3 mM MgCl2.6H2O; 0.05% IGEPAL CA-630; 0.5 mM DTT; nuclease-free water) and 3 ml of wash buffer (5% BSA, 0.25% glycerol in 1× PBS). To preserve RNA integrity, 50 µl of Protector RNase Inhibitor (Sigma-Aldrich, 3335402001) was added directly to the Singulator cartridge. Following isolation, nuclei were centrifuged, and debris were removed by centrifugation in wash buffer supplemented with 1× Nuclei Debris Removal Stock Reagent (S2 Genomics, 100253628) and 37.5 µl of RNase inhibitor at 600g for 15 min at 4 °C, with deceleration set to 1. Purified nuclei were then washed once in wash buffer and resuspended in 500 µl of wash buffer supplemented with 6.5 µl of Protector RNase Inhibitor, DAPI (Biotium, 40043; 1:1,000) and anti-NeuN-488 antibody (Sigma-Aldrich, MAB377X; 1:500). The suspension was incubated for 1 h at 4 °C in the dark to allow staining. Finally, nuclei were washed once with wash buffer, resuspended in 1 ml of wash buffer supplemented with 12.5 µl of Protector RNase Inhibitor and transferred to a FACS tube. Neuronal nuclei were sorted on the basis of DAPI and NeuN positivity using a BD FACSAriaTM II (BD Biosciences) (Extended Data Fig. 5g–i). Sorted nuclei were then resuspended in 700 µl of QIAzol lysis reagent (Qiagen, 79306), and total RNA was extracted using the miRNeasy kit (Qiagen, 217084) following the manufacturer’s instructions. Extracted RNA was sent to Novogene for mRNA library preparation (polyA enrichment) and sequenced using a NovaSeq 6000, generating 150-bp end reads.RNA-seq reads were trimmed on the 3′ ends of reads for which the quality score was less than 20 using trim galore 0.6.10 through nf-core RNA-seq pipeline v.3.18 (ref. 60). In brief, sequences were mapped to mm39 with STAR 2.7.8a (ref. 61) and counts were computed using featureCounts with gtf provided from Ensembl (Mus_musculus.GRCm39.113). Post alignment, gene annotation was carried out using Ensembl Transcripts release 113. Genes exhibiting a maximum count of one or less were removed. The remaining gene counts were normalized to counts per million. Differential expression was characterized using DESeq2 v.1.44 (2024-05-01)61 and R v.4.4. Genes with an average normalized count of less than one across all samples were considered not significantly different. Gene ontology over-representation analysis using GSEApy v.1.1.3 (ref. 62) was performed on significantly upregulated genes. Upregulated genes were tested for gene ontology term enrichment against a background of genes expressed in the RNA-seq samples using Fisher’s exact test for statistical significance. Benjamini–Hochberg multiple testing correction was performed and gene ontology terms with an adjusted P value less than 0.05 were considered significantly enriched. All RNA-seq data are available on the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus as Bioproject PRJNA1292778.Mouse generation, husbandry and genotypingAll mouse work was approved by the University of California, San Francisco Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. All mice were maintained on a C57BL/6J background on a 12:12 light–dark cycle (light on at 6.00 a.m.) with ad libitum food and water, with daily health monitoring. Genotyping was performed by means of tail clips using the KAPA Mouse Genotyping Kit (Roche, 07961766001). See Supplementary Table 2 for primer sequences. Scn2a+/− were as described in ref. 63; conditional knockout (Scn2a+/fl) were as described in ref. 13. Scn2a+/KI mice were created at Cyagen Biosciences by inverting exons 3–5 of the Scn2a gene and inserting an SA-2A-eGFP-polyA cassette upstream of the inverted exons. The inverted exons and the SA-2A-eGFP-polyA cassette were flanked with loxP and Lox2272 sites to ensure the excision of the SA-2A-eGFP-polyA cassette and the reversion of exons 3–5 to the correct orientation following Cre recombinase-induced recombination. A targeting vector containing the inverted exons, SA-2A-eGFP-polyA cassette, recombination sites, selection markers and homology arms was assembled from mouse genomic fragments amplified from BAC clones RP23-332C13 and RP23-55C23. The targeting vector was linearized by restriction enzyme digestion and transfected into C57BL/6 embryonic stem cells through electroporation, and successfully transfected cells were identified by drug selection, PCR verification and Southern blot confirmation. Confirmed clones were introduced into host embryos and transferred to surrogate mothers. Chimerism in the resulting pups was identified by means of coat colour. F0 male chimeras were bred with C57BL/6J females to generate F1 heterozygous mutants that were identified by PCR.In vivo AAV administrationFor local AAV administration, mice aged P30–P40 were kept under live anaesthetic isoflurane at 0.5–2.0% and mounted onto the stereotaxic machine (Kopf 1900). Then, 500 nl of rAAV at a 1:1 ratio of sgRNA and sadCas9-VP64 or 1 µl of EF1α-Cre-mCerry was injected into the mPFC at stereotaxic coordinates (mm): anterior-posterior, +1.7; mediolateral, −0.35; dorsoventral, −2.6, at a viral infusion rate of 0.1 μl min−1. For systemic AAV administration, mice aged P30–P40 were kept on a 37 °C warm pad and harnessed using a brass mouse restrainer (SAI Infusion Tech). Lateral tail vein injections were carried out with rAAV at a 1:1 ratio of sgRNA and sadCas9-VP64 (1 × 1011 viral genomes per mouse) suspended in 200 µl of saline using a 30 G needle. For either injection, mice were used for subsequent experiments 4 weeks after injection. Tail-vein-injected animals used for EEG recording experiments were subsequently divided across experiments for electrophysiological recordings, RT–qPCR and immunofluorescence.In vivo dissectionsAt 4 weeks after injection, mouse brains were removed and 250-µm-thick coronal slices containing the mPFC were dissected in artificial cerebrospinal solution containing (in mM): 87 NaCl, 25 NaHCO3, 25 glucose, 75 sucrose, 2.5 KCl, 1.25 NaH2PO4, 0.5 CaCl2 and 7 MgCl2; bubbled with 5%CO2/95%O2; 4 °C. Fluorescence mCherry expression in the mPFC of the injected hemisphere was validated using a fluorescence stereomicroscope (Nikon SMZ1500). For mRNA expression analyses, both the injected (mCherry-positive) and uninjected hemispheres (mCherry-negative) were dissected using a sterile Miltex disposable punch biopsy (Medline MIL3332P25) and flash-frozen in RLT lysis buffer (Qiagen). RNA was extracted using the RNAEasy Micro Kit (Qiagen) following the manufacturer’s protocol. cDNA and downstream qPCR were conducted using SuperScript III (Invitrogen) and SsoFast EvaGreen Supermix (Bio-Rad) on a QuantStudio 6 Flex Real Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems). qPCR results comparing the injected and uninjected hemispheres were analysed using the ΔΔCT methods and normalized to Actb, a housekeeping gene.Ex vivo electrophysiology and two-photon imagingAll ex vivo electrophysiology and two-photon imaging were acquired and performed using the same methods as described previously13,24. Mice were anaesthetized using isoflurane and 250-µm coronal slices were prepared. Cutting solution contained (in mM): 87 NaCl, 25 NaHCO3, 25 glucose, 75 sucrose, 2.5 KCl, 1.25 NaH2PO4, 0.5 CaCl2 and 7 MgCl2; bubbled with 5%CO2/95%O2; 4 °C. Following cutting, slices were incubated either in the same solution or in the recording solution for 30 min at 33 °C, then at room temperature until recording. Recording solution contained (in mM): 125 NaCl, 2.5 KCl, 2 CaCl2, 1 MgCl2, 25 NaHCO3, 1.25 NaH2PO4, 25 glucose; bubbled with 5%CO2/95%O2; 32–34 °C, approximately 310 mOsm. Neurons were visualized with DIC optics for conventional visually guided whole-cell recording, or Dodt contrast imaging, or with two-photon-guided imaging of reporter-driven mCherry or GFP fluorescence overlaid on an image of the slice (scanning DIC). Cells of interest were chosen on the basis of fluorescence expression in all experiments in Scn2a+/KI mice and in all experiments using CRISPRa constructs. For current-clamp recordings, patch electrodes (Schott 8250 glass, 3–4-MΩ tip resistance) were filled with a solution containing (in mM): 113 K-gluconate, 9 HEPES, 4.5 MgCl2, 0.1 EGTA, 14 Tris2-phosphocreatine, 4 Na2-ATP, 0.3 Tris-GTP; approximately 290 mOsm, pH 7.2–7.25. For Ca2+ imaging, EGTA was replaced with 250 μM Fluo-5F and 20 μM Alexa 594. For voltage-clamp recordings of synaptic activity, internal solution contained (in mM): 110 CsMeSO3, 40 HEPES, 1 KCl, 4 NaCl, 4 Mg-ATP, 10 Na-phosphocreatine, 0.4 Na2-GTP, 0.1 EGTA; approximately 290 mOsm, pH 7.22. All data were corrected for measured junction potentials of 12 and 11 mV in K- and Cs-based internals, respectively.Electrophysiological data were acquired using Multiclamp 700A or 700B amplifiers (Molecular Devices) by means of custom routines in IgorPro (Wavemetrics). For measurements of AP waveform, data were acquired at 50 kHz and filtered at 20 kHz. For all other measurements, data were acquired at 10–20 kHz and filtered at 3–10 kHz. For current-clamp recordings, pipette capacitance was compensated by 50% of the fast capacitance measured under gigaohm seal conditions in voltage-clamp before establishing a whole-cell configuration, and the bridge was balanced. For voltage-clamp recordings, pipette capacitance was compensated completely, and series resistance was compensated 50%. Series resistance was less than 15 MΩ in all recordings. Experiments were omitted if input resistance changed by more than ±15%.2PLSM was performed as previously described13. A two-photon source (Coherent Ultra II) was tuned to 810 nm for morphology and calcium imaging. Epi- and trans-fluorescence signals were captured either through a ×40, 0.8 numerical aperture (NA) objective for calcium imaging or with a ×60, 1.0 NA objective for spine morphology imaging, paired with a 1.4 NA oil immersion condenser (Olympus). Fluorescence was split into red and green channels using dichroic mirrors and band-pass filters (575 DCXR, ET525/70m-2p, ET620/60m-2p, Chroma). Green fluorescence (Fluo-5F) was captured with 10770–40 photomultiplier tubes selected for high quantum efficiency and low dark counts (Hamamatsu). Red fluorescence (Alexa 594) was captured with R9110 photomultiplier tubes. Data were collected in linescan mode (2–2.4 ms per line, including mirror flyback). For calcium imaging, data were presented as averages of 10–20 events per site and expressed as ∆G/Gsat × 100, where Gsat was the maximal fluorescence in saturating Ca2+ (2 mM). AP backpropagation experiments were performed in 25 μM picrotoxin, 10 μM NBQX and 10 μM R-CPP.EEG implant surgeriesMice were anaesthetized with isoflurane and placed on a stereotaxic apparatus. Screws with wire leads were implanted in 2–3 turns into five burr holes at (stereotaxic coordinates relative to bregma (mm)): PFC: 1.7 anterior-posterior, −0.3 mediolateral; S1: −1.8 anterior-posterior, 2.5 mediolateral; reference and ground: −5 anterior-posterior, 0.9 mediolateral (Pinnacle Technology). A head mount was then attached to the wire leads and secured in adhesive dental cement. Mice were given at least 1 week for post-surgery recovery before EEG recordings.EEG recordings and analysisEEG recordings were performed using the Sirenia Acquisition Software (Pinnacle Technology) at 2-kHz sampling frequency with simultaneous video capture. 4-AP doses at 6 and 8 mg kg−1 were delivered in sessions spaced at least 2 d apart. We administered 15 mg kg−1 at least 1 week thereafter. 4-AP was prepared fresh at the start of every recording day. Recordings were performed between 10.00 a.m. and 6.00 p.m. to control for the circadian light–dark cycle. EEG analyses were performed with custom routines in IgorPro based on deconvolution-based event detection for spontaneous synaptic activity as described previously6. A series of ictal spike events from EEG screws placed above the frontal cortex were averaged to create a 100-ms template event for all subsequent analyses. Ictal spikes were identified as all events with a deconvolved signal 3.5× above background noise.Behavioural seizure scoring was made from simultaneous video and EEG monitoring. Behavioural classification of increasing seizure severity was based on the Racine scale and a previous report of seizures in Scn2a+/− mice29,64. Latency to seizure activity was considered the time from 4-AP administration to the onset of the first seizure. Behavioural arrest was defined as a sudden immobilization of the animal. A myoclonic jerk was defined as a neck or body twitch accompanied by a single sharp spike in the EEG signal. A tonic–clonic seizure was defined as clonic convulsions leading to wild jumping also with high-amplitude spiking in the EEG signal. The animal was considered deceased when the tonic–clonic seizure led to tonic extension of hind limbs followed by loss of body tone and close to flat EEG signal.Computational compartmental modellingA pyramidal cell compartmental model was implemented in the NEURON environment (v.7.7) based on the Blue Brain Project thick-tufted layer 5b pyramidal cell (TTPC1) model used in our previous study24,65,66. The TTPC1 model was adjusted to include an AIS, and the original Na channels in the TTPC1 model were replaced with NaV1.2 and NaV1.6 channels in compartments with densities as described previously24.hESC differentiation, maturation and electrophysiologyWT and SCN2A+/− HUES66 (NIH Registration 0057) hESC cell lines were obtained from the Harvard Stem Cell Institute and plated on Matrigel (Corning)-coated standard tissue culture plates maintained in mTESR (STEMCELL). Neural progenitor cell hESCs were differentiated following the manufacturer’s instructions using the STEMDiff SMADi Embryoid Body Neural Induction protocol (STEMCELL), following a similar strategy to one documented previously67. Neural progenitor cells were further differentiated into neuronal forebrain precursors using the STEMdiff ForeBrain Neuron Differentiation protocol (Document 10000005464, STEMCELL, CanadaSTEMcell Tech), and neuronal precursors were matured into forebrain neurons using the STEMdiff Forebrain Maturation Kit with BrainPhys (STEMCELL). Neuronal precursors were maturated on poly-l-ornithine laminin-coated German glass coverslips (Neuvitro GG-25-1.5-Laminin) for 65 d. Whole-cell current-clamp recordings were done as in mouse acute slices, using identical solutions.Immunofluorescence of fixed cells or tissueFor hESCs, differentiated neurons were fixed at DIV 65 with 4% paraformaldehyde and 4% sucrose and blocked with 10% normal goat serum in PBS in 0.2% Triton-X. All coverslips within a set of experiments, including those used previously that day for electrophysiology, were fixed within 1 h of each other to minimize developmental differences across coverslips. Following fixation, cells were incubated with primary antibodies against MAP2 (Invitrogen, PA1-10005) at 1:5,000 and Ankyrin-G (Neuromab, 75-146) at 1:1,000 overnight at 4 °C. Cells were then incubated with the secondary antibodies Goat anti-Chicken IgY (H+L) Cross-Absorbed Secondary Antibody, Alexa Fluor Plus 647 (Invitrogen, A32933) at 1:500 and Goat anti-Mouse IgG (H+L) Highly Cross Adsorbed Secondary Antibody, Alexa Fluor 488 (Thermo Fisher, A-11029) at 1:500. They were then mounted on coverslips with ProLong Diamond Antifade Mountant with DAPI (Thermo Fisher). Images were captured with a ×40, 1.4 NA objective using an Olympus Fluoview FV3000 confocal microscope. AIS length was measured from maximum intensity projections generated from z-stacks that contained the entire bounds of the neuron based on ankyrin-G and MAP2 immunofluorescence. Only initial segments with clearly detectable start and end points were quantified using the segmented line tool in FIJI (ImageJ). Start and end points were determined with a threshold of 50% peak ankyrin-G fluorescence intensity using plot profiles (pixel intensity/distance) in FIJI.For whole-brain mouse immunohistochemistry, mice were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS and brains were removed and sectioned coronally or sagittally on a vibratome (Leica, VT1000) at 50–75 µm, and then mounted on slides with ProLong Gold Antifade Mountant with DAPI. For imaging of Scn2a+/KI sections, tissue was permeabilized, blocked and immunostained for GFP (anti-GFP AlexaFluor 488, 1:500, ThermoFisher A-21311) and parvalbumin (PV27, 1:500, Swant; AlexaFluor 564 secondary, 1:500, ThermoFisher). Sections were imaged with either an Olympus Fluoview FV3000 (coronal sections) or a Keyence BZ-X widefield microscope (sagittal sections).Quantification and statistical analysisUnless otherwise noted, all data are shown in figures as box plots, with median and quartiles and minimum and maximum tails, with individual data points overlaid, or as mean ± standard error with individual data points overlaid. A Kruskal–Wallis non-parametric test with Holm–Šídák multiple comparisons testing was performed unless otherwise noted. Statistical tests are noted in figure legends. All tests used were two-sided. Results were considered significant at an alpha value of P < 0.05. For multiple comparisons tests used to compare several conditions, no indication of significance in the figure means not significant. Statistical analysis was performed using Prism 9 (GraphPad). For electrophysiology and imaging experiments, acute slices were typically generated blind to genotype and experiments were interleaved between two or three genotypes/injection conditions to control for recording conditions. Group sample sizes were chosen on the basis of standards in the field and previous similar experiments conducted by our group13,24. No statistical methods were used to predetermine sample size. A minimum of two biological replicates were tested in all experiments.Reporting summaryFurther information on research design is available in the Nature Portfolio Reporting Summary linked to this article.
Data availability
All RNA-seq data are available at the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus as Bioproject GSE302897. Requests for materials can be directed to N.A. (CRT-based approaches) or K.J.B. (mouse models). Source data are provided with this paper.
Code availability
No custom code was generated for this work.
ReferencesKarczewski, K. J. et al. The mutational constraint spectrum quantified from variation in 141,456 humans. Nature 581, 434–443 (2020).Article
ADS
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Sanders, S. J. et al. Progress in understanding and treating SCN2A-mediated disorders. Trends Neurosci. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tins.2018.03.011 (2018).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Maenner, M. J. et al. Prevalence of autism spectrum disorder among children aged 8 years – Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network, 11 sites, United States, 2016. MMWR Surveill. Summ. https://doi.org/10.15585/MMWR.SS6904A1 (2020).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Kaplanis, J. et al. Evidence for 28 genetic disorders discovered by combining healthcare and research data. Nature 586, 757–762 (2020).Article
ADS
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Fu, J. M. et al. Rare coding variation provides insight into the genetic architecture and phenotypic context of autism. Nat. Genet. 54, 1320–1331 (2022).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Epi25 Collaborative Exome sequencing of 20,979 individuals with epilepsy reveals shared and distinct ultra-rare genetic risk across disorder subtypes. Nat. Neurosci. 27, 1864–1879 (2024).Article
CAS
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Wang, D., Tai, P. W. L. & Gao, G. Adeno-associated virus vector as a platform for gene therapy delivery. Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 18, 358–378 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Wu, Z., Yang, H. & Colosi, P. Effect of genome size on AAV vector packaging. Mol. Ther. 18, 80–86 (2010).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Howe, K. L. et al. Ensembl 2021. Nucleic Acids Res. 49, D884–D891 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Matharu, N. & Ahituv, N. Modulating gene regulation to treat genetic disorders. Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 19, 757–775 (2020).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Werling, D. M. et al. Whole-genome and RNA sequencing reveal variation and transcriptomic coordination in the developing human prefrontal cortex. Cell Rep. 31, 107489 (2020).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Jenkins, P. M. & Bender, K. J. Axon initial segment structure and function in health and disease. Physiol. Rev. 105, 765–801 (2025).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Spratt, P. W. E. et al. The autism-associated gene Scn2a contributes to dendritic excitability and synaptic function in the prefrontal cortex. Neuron 103, 673–685 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Nelson, A. D. et al. Physical and functional convergence of the autism risk genes Scn2a and Ank2 in neocortical pyramidal cell dendrites. Neuron 112, 1133–1149 (2024).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Lu, C. et al. Overexpression of NEUROG2 and NEUROG1 in human embryonic stem cells produces a network of excitatory and inhibitory neurons. FASEB J. 33, 5287–5299 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Li, T. et al. Action potential initiation in neocortical inhibitory interneurons. PLoS Biol. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.1001944 (2014).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Matharu, N. et al. CRISPR-mediated activation of a promoter or enhancer rescues obesity caused by haploinsufficiency. Science 363, eaau0629 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Grimm, D. et al. In vitro and in vivo gene therapy vector evolution via multispecies interbreeding and retargeting of adeno-associated viruses. J. Virol. 82, 5887–5911 (2008).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Bae, S., Park, J. & Kim, J.-S. Cas-OFFinder: a fast and versatile algorithm that searches for potential off-target sites of Cas9 RNA-guided endonucleases. Bioinformatics 30, 1473–1475 (2014).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Wang, W. et al. PTPN14 is required for the density-dependent control of YAP1. Genes Dev. 26, 1959–1971 (2012).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Correia, J. C. et al. Zfp697 is an RNA-binding protein that regulates skeletal muscle inflammation and remodeling. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 121, e2319724121 (2024).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Busse, D. C. et al. Interferon-induced protein 44 and interferon-induced protein 44-like restrict replication of respiratory syncytial virus. J. Virol. 94, e00297–20 (2020).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Baum, M. L. et al. CSMD1 regulates brain complement activity and circuit development. Brain Behav. Immun. 119, 317–332 (2024).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Spratt, P. W. E. et al. Paradoxical hyperexcitability from NaV1.2 sodium channel loss in neocortical pyramidal cells. Cell Rep. 36, 109483 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Chung, J. H., Larsen, A. R., Chen, E. & Bunz, F. A PTCH1 homolog transcriptionally activated by p53 suppresses hedgehog signaling. J. Biol. Chem. 289, 33020–33031 (2014).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Liang, L. et al. Developmental dynamics of voltage-gated sodium channel isoform expression in the human and mouse brain. Genome Med. 13, 135 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Yuan, Y. et al. Antisense oligonucleotides restore excitability, GABA signalling and sodium current density in a Dravet syndrome model. Brain 147, 1231–1246 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Zhang, J. et al. Severe deficiency of the voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.2 elevates neuronal excitability in adult mice. Cell Rep. 36, 109495 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Miyamoto, H. et al. Impaired cortico-striatal excitatory transmission triggers epilepsy. Nat. Commun. 10, 1917 (2019).Article
ADS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Reynolds, C., King, M. D. & Gorman, K. M. The phenotypic spectrum of SCN2A-related epilepsy. Eur. J. Paediatr. Neurol. 24, 117–122 (2020).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Colasante, G. et al. dCas9-based Scn1a gene activation restores inhibitory interneuron excitability and attenuates seizures in Dravet syndrome mice. Mol. Ther. 28, 235–253 (2020).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Colasante, G. et al. In vivo CRISPRa decreases seizures and rescues cognitive deficits in a rodent model of epilepsy. Brain 143, 891–905 (2020).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Yamagata, T. et al. CRISPR/dCas9-based Scn1a gene activation in inhibitory neurons ameliorates epileptic and behavioral phenotypes of Dravet syndrome model mice. Neurobiol. Dis. 141, 104954 (2020).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Chang, H.-C. et al. rAAV-CRISPRa therapy corrects Rai1 haploinsufficiency and rescues selective disease features in Smith–Magenis syndrome mice. J. Biol. Chem. 299, 102728 (2023).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Wang, G. et al. Multiplexed activation of endogenous genes by CRISPRa elicits potent antitumor immunity. Nat. Immunol. 20, 1494–1505 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Liao, H.-K. et al. In vivo target gene activation via CRISPR/Cas9-mediated trans-epigenetic modulation. Cell 171, 1495–1507 (2017).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Böhm, S. et al. A gene therapy for inherited blindness using dCas9-VPR-mediated transcriptional activation. Sci. Adv. 6, eaba5614 (2020).Article
ADS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Kemaladewi, D. U. et al. A mutation-independent approach for muscular dystrophy via upregulation of a modifier gene. Nature 572, 125–130 (2019).Article
ADS
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Mich, J. K. et al. Interneuron-specific dual-AAV SCN1A gene replacement corrects epileptic phenotypes in mouse models of Dravet syndrome. Sci. Transl. Med. 17, eadn5603 (2025).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Waszkielewicz, A. M. et al. Ion channels as drug targets in central nervous system disorders. Curr. Med. Chem. 20, 1241–1285 (2013).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Johnson, J. P. et al. NBI-921352, a first-in-class, NaV1.6 selective, sodium channel inhibitor that prevents seizures in Scn8a gain-of-function mice, and wild-type mice and rats. eLife 11, e72468 (2022).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Ferdosi, S. R. et al. Multifunctional CRISPR-Cas9 with engineered immunosilenced human T cell epitopes. Nat. Commun. 10, 1842 (2019).Article
ADS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Mehta, A. & Merkel, O. M. Immunogenicity of Cas9 protein. J. Pharm. Sci. 109, 62–67 (2020).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Gaj, T., Sirk, S. J., Shui, S.-L. & Liu, J. Genome-editing technologies: principles and applications. Cold Spring Harb. Perspect. Biol. 8, a023754 (2016).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Levy, G. & Barak, B. Postnatal therapeutic approaches in genetic neurodevelopmental disorders. Neural Regen. Res. 16, 414–422 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Markati, T., Duis, J. & Servais, L. Therapies in preclinical and clinical development for Angelman syndrome. Expert Opin. Investig. Drugs 30, 709–720 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Silva-Santos, S. et al. Ube3a reinstatement identifies distinct developmental windows in a murine Angelman syndrome model. J. Clin. Invest. 125, 2069–2076 (2015).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Wolter, J. M. et al. Cas9 gene therapy for Angelman syndrome traps Ube3a-ATS long non-coding RNA. Nature 587, 281–284 (2020).Article
ADS
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Berg, A. T. et al. Expanded clinical phenotype spectrum correlates with variant function in SCN2A-related disorders. Brain 147, 2761–2774 (2024).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Eaton, M. et al. Generation and basic characterization of a gene-trap knockout mouse model of Scn2a with a substantial reduction of voltage-gated sodium channel Nav 1.2 expression. Genes Brain Behav. 20, e12725 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Tatsukawa, T. et al. Scn2a haploinsufficient mice display a spectrum of phenotypes affecting anxiety, sociability, memory flexibility and ampakine CX516 rescues their hyperactivity. Mol. Autism 10, 15 (2019).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Shin, W. et al. Scn2a haploinsufficiency in mice suppresses hippocampal neuronal excitability, excitatory synaptic drive, and long-term potentiation, and spatial learning and memory. Front. Mol. Neurosci. 12, 145 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Léna, I. & Mantegazza, M. NaV1.2 haploinsufficiency in Scn2a knock-out mice causes an autistic-like phenotype attenuated with age. Sci. Rep. 9, 12886 (2019).Article
ADS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Schamiloglu, S., Wu, H., Zhou, M., Kwan, A. C. & Bender, K. J. Dynamic foraging behavior performance is not affected by Scn2a haploinsufficiency. eNeuro 10, ENEURO.0367-23.2023 (2023).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Goertsen, D. et al. AAV capsid variants with brain-wide transgene expression and decreased liver targeting after intravenous delivery in mouse and marmoset. Nat. Neurosci. 25, 106–115 (2022).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Keiser, M. S. et al. Toxicity after AAV delivery of RNAi expression constructs into nonhuman primate brain. Nat. Med. 27, 1982–1989 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Hordeaux, J. et al. The GPI-linked protein LY6A drives AAV-PHP.B transport across the blood-brain barrier. Mol. Ther. 27, 912–921 (2019).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Yao, Y. et al. Variants of the adeno-associated virus serotype 9 with enhanced penetration of the blood-brain barrier in rodents and primates. Nat. Biomed. Eng. 6, 1257–1271 (2022).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Blesa, J. et al. BBB opening with focused ultrasound in nonhuman primates and Parkinson’s disease patients: targeted AAV vector delivery and PET imaging. Sci. Adv. 9, eadf4888 (2023).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Ewels, P. A. et al. The nf-core framework for community-curated bioinformatics pipelines. Nat. Biotechnol. 38, 276–278 (2020).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Love, M. I., Huber, W. & Anders, S. Moderated estimation of fold change and dispersion for RNA-seq data with DESeq2. Genome Biol. 15, 550 (2014).Article
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Fang, Z., Liu, X. & Peltz, G. GSEApy: a comprehensive package for performing gene set enrichment analysis in Python. Bioinformatics 39, btac757 (2023).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Planells-Cases, R. et al. Neuronal death and perinatal lethality in voltage-gated sodium channel αII-deficient mice. Biophys. J. 78, 2878–2891 (2000).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Van Erum, J., Van Dam, D. & De Deyn, P. P. PTZ-induced seizures in mice require a revised Racine scale. Epilepsy Behav. 95, 51–55 (2019).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Markram, H. et al. Reconstruction and simulation of neocortical microcircuitry. Cell 163, 456–492 (2015).Article
CAS
PubMed
Google Scholar
Ben-Shalom, R. et al. Opposing effects on NaV1.2 function underlie differences between SCN2A variants observed in individuals with autism spectrum disorder or infantile seizures. Biol. Psychiatry 82, 224–232 (2017).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Ruden, J. B., Dixit, M., Zepeda, J. C., Grueter, B. A. & Dugan, L. L. Robust expression of functional NMDA receptors in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neuronal cultures using an accelerated protocol. Front. Mol. Neurosci. 14, 777049 (2021).Article
CAS
PubMed
PubMed Central
Google Scholar
Download referencesAcknowledgementsWe thank the Bender and Ahituv laboratory members for comments and discussions on this manuscript, and members of the FamilieSCN2A Foundation who provided the core motivation and inspiration for this work. We acknowledge the UCSF Parnassus Flow CoLab (RRID:SCR_018206) supported in part by NIH grant no. P30 DK063720 and by the NIH S10 Instrumentation Grant no. S10 1S10OD021822-01. This work was supported by grants from SFARI (grant no. 629287: K.J.B., N.A.; grant no. 513133: K.J.B.), the Broad Institute Target Practice Initiative (K.J.B.), the Autism Science Foundation (S.T.), the Weill Neurohub Investigator Program (K.J.B., N.A.), an NSERC Predoctoral Fellowship (P.W.E.S.), the Ford Foundation Dissertation Fellowship (S.S.H.), the Weill Foundation Graduate Student Fellowship (S.S.H.), an NSF Graduate Fellowship (S.T.) and the NIH (grant no. R01 MH125978: K.J.B.; grant no. R01 MH136475: K.J.B., N.A.; grant nos. F32 MH125536 and K99 MH135209: A.D.N.; grant nos. R01 NS078118 and R01 NS121287: J.T.P.; grant no. R01 MH115045, R01 NS108874 and R01 MH118298: J.Q.P.; grant no. T32 GM007449: S.S.H.; grant no. MH126960: P.M.J.; grant no. R01 MH129751: S.J.S.), EMBO (ALTF 585-2021: C.A.), the Medical Research Council Centre of Research Excellence in Therapeutic Genomics (MR/Z504725/1: S.J.S., N.A.), the UCSF Bakar Aging Research Institute postdoctoral fellowship (C.A.) and the Bettencourt Schueller foundation (C.A.).Author informationAuthor notesThese authors contributed equally: Serena Tamura, Andrew D. Nelson, Perry W. E. SprattAuthors and AffiliationsDepartment of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USASerena Tamura, Xujia Zhou, Zizheng Li, Coline Arnould, Vladyslav Barskyi, Beniamin Krupkin, Kiana Young, Jingjing Zhao, Navneet Matharu & Nadav AhituvInstitute for Human Genetics, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USASerena Tamura, Xujia Zhou, Zizheng Li, Coline Arnould, Vladyslav Barskyi, Beniamin Krupkin, Kiana Young, Jingjing Zhao, Navneet Matharu & Nadav AhituvWeill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USAAndrew D. Nelson, Perry W. E. Spratt, Elizabeth C. Hamada, Henry Kyoung, Atehsa Sahagun, Caroline M. Keeshen, Roy Ben-Shalom, Sunrae E. Taloma, Selin Schamiloglu, Ying C. Li, Stephan J. Sanders & Kevin J. BenderDepartment of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USAAndrew D. Nelson, Perry W. E. Spratt, Elizabeth C. Hamada, Henry Kyoung, Stephanie S. Holden, Atehsa Sahagun, Caroline M. Keeshen, Roy Ben-Shalom, Sunrae E. Taloma, Selin Schamiloglu, Ying C. Li, Jeanne T. Paz & Kevin J. BenderGladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USAStephanie S. Holden & Jeanne T. PazStanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA, USACongyi Lu & Jen Q. PanDepartment of Pharmacology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USALia Min & Paul M. JenkinsDepartment of Psychiatry, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USAPaul M. JenkinsDepartment of Psychiatry, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USAStephan J. SandersInstitute of Developmental and Regenerative Medicine, Department of Paediatrics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UKStephan J. SandersAuthorsSerena TamuraView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarAndrew D. NelsonView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarPerry W. E. SprattView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarElizabeth C. HamadaView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarXujia ZhouView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarHenry KyoungView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarZizheng LiView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarColine ArnouldView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarVladyslav BarskyiView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarBeniamin KrupkinView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarKiana YoungView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarJingjing ZhaoView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarStephanie S. HoldenView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarAtehsa SahagunView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarCaroline M. KeeshenView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarCongyi LuView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarRoy Ben-ShalomView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarSunrae E. TalomaView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarSelin SchamilogluView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarYing C. LiView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarLia MinView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarPaul M. JenkinsView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarJen Q. PanView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarJeanne T. PazView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarStephan J. SandersView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarNavneet MatharuView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarNadav AhituvView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarKevin J. BenderView author publicationsSearch author on:PubMed Google ScholarContributionsConceptualization: K.J.B., S.J.S., N.A. Methodology: S.T., A.D.N., P.W.E.S., H.K., J.Z., N.M., J.Q.P., J.T.P., P.M.J., R.B.-S., N.A., K.J.B. Software: H.K., J.Z., R.B.-S. Formal analysis: S.T., A.D.N., P.W.E.S., V.B., B.K., L.M., P.M.J., H.K., J.Z., K.J.B. Investigation: S.T., A.D.N., P.W.E.S., E.C.H., X.Z., H.K., Z.L., C.A., V.B., K.Y., J.Z., S.S.H., A.S., C.M.K., C.L., S.E.T., S.S., Y.C.L., K.J.B. Writing—original draft: S.T., A.D.N., N.A., K.J.B. Writing—review and editing: all authors. Visualization: S.T., A.D.N., P.W.E.S., H.K., J.Z., K.J.B. Supervision: N.A., K.J.B. Funding acquisition: S.T., A.D.N., P.W.E.S., S.S.H., J.Q.P., J.T.P., S.J.S., N.A., K.J.B.Corresponding authorsCorrespondence to
Nadav Ahituv or Kevin J. Bender.Ethics declarations
Competing interests
N.M. is the cofounder and former board member and CSO of Regel Therapeutics, N.A. is the cofounder of Regel Therapeutics and both N.A. and K.J.B. are on the scientific advisory board of Regel Therapeutics. P.W.E.S. is a Program Director at Regel Therapeutics. N.M. and N.A. are the inventors on patent ‘Gene therapy for haploinsufficiency’ WO2018148256A9. N.A., K.J.B. and S.J.S. receive funding from BioMarin Pharmaceutical Incorporated. The other authors declare no competing interests.
Peer review
Peer review information
Nature thanks Elvir Becirovic, James Trimmer and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Peer reviewer reports are available.
Additional informationPublisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.Extended data figures and tablesExtended Data Fig. 1 Excitatory pyramidal neurons in the mPFC are GFP+ in Cre-negative Scn2a+/KI animals.a. Coronal brain sections from P60 Scn2a+/KI mouse (Cre-) immunostained with anti-GFP and anti-parvalbumin (PV). b. Zoom of area highlighted by dashed box in panel a, with GFP and Parvalbumin channels separated then merged at bottom. Parv+ somata are circled in the GFP panel. c. Further zoom of region in layer 5b in panel b. Parv+ somata are circled as in panel c. d. Quantification of mean fluorescence intensify of GFP in PV-negative cells, PV-positive cells, and neuropil (area without somata as a measure of background fluorescence). Data are from 2 mice. Circles are mean GFP intensity values in ROIs of Parv- somata, Parv+ somata, or neighboring neuropil in single optical sections. Box plots are medians, quartiles, and 100% tails. n = 67 Parv- and 37 Parv+ cells analyzed; Parv- vs. Parv + : ****p < 0.0001. Parv- vs. neuropil: ****p < 0.0001. Holm-Šídák multiple comparisons test.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 2 In vitro optimization of CRISPRa constructs in mouse Neuroblastoma-2A cells.a. Fold change of Scn2a expression in Neuro-2a cells transfected with plasmids containing sgRNAs targeting the promoter of mouse Scn2a compared to a no-sgRNA VP64 control. Blue bars represent plasmids with largest increase in Scn2a expression. Circles are replicates, overlaid on mean ± SD. b. Fold change of Scn2a transduced with rAAV-DJ virus in Neuro-2a cells. Circles are replicates, overlaid on mean ± SD. c. Total animal weight at time of 8 mg/kg 4-AP administration (animals aged 69–119 days). Circles are animals. Box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. d. RT-qPCR analysis of dCas9 and mCherry mRNA within the mPFC of tail vein injected Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa (light gray) and Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa (purple) versus uninjected controls Scn2a+/+ (dark gray) or Scn2a+/− (cyan). Injected animals with at least a 10-fold increase in expression levels of both dCas9 and mCherry to the average Scn2a+/+ uninjected controls were included in EEG datasets in Fig. 3.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 3 Scn2a-CRISPRa off-target analysis in cell lines.a. RNA-seq expression levels of Scn2a TAD-domain genes from Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa treated Neuro-2a cells compared to VP64-only. Circles are individual replicates, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. p-values noted above data. Wald test. b. RNA-seq expression levels of sodium channels from Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa treated Neuro-2a cells compared to VP64-only. Circles are individual replicates, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. p-values noted above data. Wald test. c. Volcano plot representing Log2 fold-change in expression levels for each gene. Wald test. P-values noted above each comparison. Grey dots represent no significant DEGs for CRISPRa, purple dots signify Scn2a and nearby genes, and orange dots denote upregulated genes. d. Gene ontology (GO) analysis showing enrichment of molecular functions. e. Gene ontology (GO) analysis showing enrichment of biological processes. f. Analysis of sgRNA sequence off-targeting using Cas-OFFinder.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 4 Intrinsic electrophysiology of Scn2a+/KI and CRISPRa treated neurons.a. AP threshold from P57-85 Scn2a-rAAV-empty vector Scn2a+/+ (light gray) and Scn2a+/− (magenta) neurons, Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa treated Scn2a+/+ (dark gray) and Scn2a+/− (purple) neurons, and Scn2a+/KI Cre- (green) and Scn2a+/KI Cre+ (gray) neurons. Threshold of the first AP evoked by a near-rheobase current. Scn2a+/+ + empty: n = 17 cells; Scn2a+/− + empty: n = 27 cells; Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa: n = 24 cells; Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa: n = 19 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre-: n = 29 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre + : n = 21 cells. No significant differences. Holm-Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are individual cells, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. b. Input resistance (MΩ). Scn2a+/+ + empty: n = 17 cells; Scn2a+/− + empty: n = 27 cells; Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa: n = 17 cells; Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa: n = 11 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre-: n = 26 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre + : n = 19 cells. No significant differences. Holm-Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are individual cells, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. c. Rheobase current (pA) to generate first spike. Scn2a+/+ + empty: n = 16 cells; Scn2a+/− + empty: n = 27 cells; Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa: n = 17 cells; Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa: n = 12 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre-: n = 25 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre + : n = 19 cells. No significant differences. Holm-Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are individual cells, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. d. APs per 300 ms stimulation epoch for each current amplitude. Left: Quantification of firing rate slope of data on Right. Scn2a+/+ + empty: n = 16 cells; Scn2a+/− + empty: n = 27 cells; Scn2a+/+ + CRISPRa: n = 17 cells; Scn2a+/− + CRISPRa: n = 12 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre-: n = 25 cells; Scn2a+/KI Cre + : n = 19 cells. No significant differences. Holm-Šídák multiple comparisons test. Circles are individual cells, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails.Right: Number of APs versus current amplitude injected. Circles and bars are mean ± SEM at each stimulus intensity.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 5 Scn2a-CRISPRa off-target analysis in the mouse neocortex.a. RNA-seq expression levels of Scn2a TAD-domain genes from Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa treated Neuro-2a cells compared to VP64-only. Circles are individual mice, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. b. RNA-seq expression levels of sodium channels from Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa treated Neuro-2a cells compared to VP64-only. Circles are individual mice, box plots are medians, quartiles and 100% tails. c. Volcano plot representing Log2 fold-change in expression levels for each gene for WT vs Scn2a+/− “Het”. Wald test. P-values noted above each comparison. Grey dots represent no significant DEGs for CRISPRa, purple dots signify Scn2a and nearby genes, and orange dots denote upregulated genes. d. Same as c, but for CRISPRa-treated Scn2a+/− “CRISPRa” vs WT. e. Same as c, but for CRISPRa-treated Scn2a+/− “CRISPRa” vs Scn2a+/− “Het”. f. Analysis of sgRNA sequence off-targeting using Cas-OFFinder. g. Data representation of NeuN-positive neuronal nuclei isolated from cortical tissue for FACS sorting. Representative FACS plots visualized with FlowJo V10 with percentage of parent gates for each population. Singlets were selected based on FSC-H versus FSC-A. h. From singlets, DAPI-positive events were gated to identify nuclei. i. NeuN-positive neuronal nuclei were selected using an anti-NeuN antibody conjugated to Alexa Fluor 488.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 6 CRISPRa expression persists through 16 months post-systemic injection.Peak AP dV/dt (top) at 30-, 56-, 107-, and 210-days following tail-vein injection of Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-PHP.eB in Scn2a+/−mice (purple). Circles represent individual neurons. Lines are linear regression. qPCR of mCherry (middle) or dCas9 (bottom) mRNA from neocortical samples collected from tail-vein or retro-orbital Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-PHP.eB injected Scn2a+/+ (gray) or Scn2a+/− mice (purple) across time. Circles represent single mice. Lines are linear regression.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 7 Behavioral and EEG response to increasing doses of 4-AP in Scn2a+/− mice.a. Example PFC EEGs from animals receiving 8 and 15 mg/kg 4-AP. 4-AP administered at onset of all recordings. Dashed box denotes a tonic clonic seizure and subsequent mortality occurring with 15 mg/kg dosing in Scn2a+/− animal. EEG data within boxed area is shown at higher resolution on right. b. Survival curves for all WT and Scn2a+/− animals for 6, 8 and 15 mg/kg 4-AP. WT: black, Scn2a+/−: cyan.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 8 In vitro optimization of CRISPRa constructs in human SH-SY5Ycells.a. Fold change of SCN2A expression in SH-SY5Y cells transfected with plasmids containing sgRNAs targeting the promoter of human SCN2A compared to a no sgRNA VP64 control. b. Fold change of SCN2A transduced with rAAV-DJ virus in human SH-SY5Y cells. c. SCN2A mRNA expression from SCN2A+/+ (black), SCN2A+/− (cyan), and SCN2A-rAAV-CRISPRa treated SCN2A+/− (purple) hESC-derived neurons normalized to wild type average. SCN2A+/+ vs. SCN2A+/−: *p = 0.03. Holm-Šídák multiple comparisons test. n = 3 replicates for all conditions. circles are individual replicates. Bars are mean ± SD.Source DataExtended Data Fig. 9 Axon initial segment structural plasticity occurs in SCN2A+/− neurons and is rescued by CRISPRa.a. Representative images of SCN2A+/+ (black) and SCN2A+/− (cyan) human stem-cell-derived neurons immunostained with antibodies against ankyrin-G (green) and MAP2 (magenta). Arrowheads denote start and end points used to quantify AIS length. b. Quantification of AIS length. SCN2A+/+: n = 56 cells, 3 dishes. SCN2A+/−: n = 56 cells, 3 dishes. ****p < 0.0001. Mann-Whitney test. c. Representative images of SCN2A+/− neurons expressing Scn2a-rAAV-CRISPRa-mCherry (purple) and mCherry-negative internal SCN2A+/− controls (cyan). Immunostaining against ankyrin-G and MAP2. d. Quantification of AIS length. SCN2A+/−: n = 122 cells, 3 dishes. SCN2A+/− + CRISPRa: n = 23 cells, 3 dishes. ****p < 0.0001. Mann-Whitney test. Circles are individual AIS calculations. Box plots are medians, quartiles, and 100% tails.Source DataSupplementary informationSupplementary InformationFull descriptions for Supplementary Tables 1–3.Reporting SummaryPeer Review FileSupplementary Table 1Supplementary Table 2Supplementary Table 3Source dataSource Data Figs. 1–4 and Extended Data Figs. 1–9.Rights and permissionsSpringer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.Reprints and permissionsAbout this articleCite this articleTamura, S., Nelson, A.D., Spratt, P.W.E. et al. CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders.
Nature
(2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09522-wDownload citationReceived: 23 January 2024Accepted: 13 August 2025Published: 17 September 2025DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09522-wShare this articleAnyone you share the following link with will be able to read this content:Get shareable linkSorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.Copy shareable link to clipboard
Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
Advertisement
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
This journal
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing