Crispy Rice Salad Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Chicken & Artichoke Rice Salad
Crispy Rice
Crisp Waldorf Salad
Crispy Shrimp Caesar Salad
Spinach Rice Salad
Rice Salad
Crispy Chicken Caesar Salad
Fruit and Rice Salad
Crunchy Vegetable Salad
Crispy Crouton Salad
Crunchy Lettuce Salad
Rice Vegetable Salad
Peachy Rice Salad
Nutty Wild Rice Salad
Crispy Hot Chicken Salad
Chicken and Rice Salad
Chicken Rice Salad
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Home Dishes & BeveragesSaladsAsian Salads
Crispy Rice Salad
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Bake: 30 min. + cooling
By
Suzanne Podhaizer
Recipe by Suzanne Podhaizer, St. Johnsbury, Vermont
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 04, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Baking leftover rice on a sheet pan gives it a crispy texture and golden color. Then, topping it with a tahini-soy dressing and plenty of veggies makes this crispy rice salad a dinner-in-a-bowl that is exciting, full of texture and endlessly customizable.
If you’ve ever wanted a great way to use up leftover rice, crispy rice salad is the answer you’ve been looking for! Of all the new dishes I’ve tried this year, this was the one that made me the happiest. I started with the Asian-inspired version written here. Since then, I’ve made numerous variations riffing on flavor combinations from all around the globe.
This is a great dish to make when you have day-old rice in the fridge. But you can also make fresh rice and let it cool and then proceed with the recipe. Serve this with tons of fresh or lightly cooked vegetables and any dressing that you enjoy.
Ingredients for Crispy Rice Salad
Leftover rice: I’m a sucker for sticky sushi rice and love the way that it makes crispy rice clump as it bakes, so that’s what I used. However, you can use any type of rice that you happen to have.
Canola oil: You’ll be using toasted sesame oil to flavor this dish. But that oil has a lower smoke point than the oven temperature at which you’ll be cooking the rice, so it’s a no-go for the cooking step of the process. Instead, crisp up the rice using a more refined oil for frying, such as grapeseed, avocado or canola oil, as they can handle the extra heat.
Coarse salt: This recipe uses coarse sea salt, which is added to the rice along with the oil. If you seasoned the water when you cooked the rice the first time around, you can skip the extra salt.
Tahini: Tahini, which is another name for sesame paste, oxidizes (aka becomes rancid) quickly when kept in a warm place, so make sure to store yours in the fridge. If you’ve had some in the cupboard for a while, give it a sniff to make sure that it’s fresh before using it.
Toasted sesame oil: This oil, which is often kept near the soy sauce and tamari at the grocery store, is nutty and toasty and delicious. Like tahini, it’s best stored in the fridge, or at least in a cool dark cupboard.
Rice wine vinegar: Choose the unseasoned type of rice vinegar. The seasoned type will add additional salt to the recipe. Rice vinegar has a nice, clean flavor and can serve as a great all-purpose type of vinegar for other recipes too.
Tamari: Whenever I’m making a dish that’s otherwise gluten-free, I’ll default to using tamari vs. soy, because the former is wheat-free. That way, if I happen to share it with someone who avoids gluten, they’ll be able to eat it.
Mirin: Mirin is a common Japanese ingredient and a component of teriyaki sauce. The sweetened rice wine is also used in China and South Korea and has been adopted in parts of Thailand. If you don’t have it, use a little honey instead.
Garlic: My cloves were medium-sized, but if you love garlic, feel free to go big.
Ginger: Even though you puree the dressing in a food processor or blender, it’s still a good move to chop the ginger a bit before adding it. That way, you don’t risk biting into a big chunk.
Cabbage: Green cabbage is great in this dish, but red is more eye-catching. Which one you use is up to you. If you can’t decide, use both.
Scallions: For this dish, you can use both the green and white parts of the scallion, which are sometimes referred to as green onions.
Carrot: Shredding the carrot is quick and easy, but mincing it or cutting it into a julienne would be equally great.
Cucumber: Depending on where you buy your cucumbers, you could peel them or leave the skin on. Waxed cucumbers from the supermarket are a good candidate for peeling. If you bought yours from a farm or farmers market and the cukes are young and tender, leave the skin on for its valuable nutrients.
Edamame: You can often find edamame, also known as soybeans, in the freezer section of the grocery store.
Directions
Step 1: Crisp the rice
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Preheat the oven to 400°F and line a sheet pan with parchment. In a large bowl, combine the rice, oil and salt with your hands. Mix until the oil is distributed. Pour the rice onto the pan, spreading it with your hands or a spatula to make an even, thin layer. Bake for 15 minutes, then flip the rice with a spatula and bake for 15 more minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and let cool.
Editor’s Tip: The rice should be lightly golden in parts, with darker areas around the edges.
Step 2: Make the dressing
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
While the rice is cooking, combine the tahini, sesame oil, canola oil, rice wine vinegar, tamari, water, mirin, garlic and ginger (if desired).
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Use an immersion blender or pulse in a blender until well blended and emulsified.
Editor’s Tip: If you don’t have a blender, use a food processor to make the dressing. If you don’t have either, mince the garlic and ginger and shake the ingredients in a tightly sealed jar.
Step 3: Combine the ingredients
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
When the rice is cool, toss it together with the veggies and dressing to make the salad. Serve with sliced green onion, sesame seeds, chili crisp and/or shichimi togarashi seasoning as desired.
Editor’s Tip: Begin by tossing the veggies and rice with just 8 tablespoons of the dressing to prevent overdressing the salad—you can always add more! Also, before serving, taste for seasoning and consider adding more salt, tamari or vinegar for sourness.
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Crispy Rice Salad Variations
Swap the rice: I used sushi rice when creating this recipe, as I enjoy the way that it creates clumps of crisped rice. A less sticky type of rice, such as jasmine, basmati or long grain, will give you more individual crispy bits.
Go global: This variation has plenty of Asian ingredients, but you could make versions with inspiration from pretty much any region of the world. A Mexican-inspired crispy rice dish could have a cilantro lime vinaigrette and use roasted corn, tomatoes, pumpkin and black beans as toppings. I tried an Italian-leaning version with radicchio, wilted greens, baked zucchini, heirloom tomatoes and a basil-balsamic vinaigrette that I enjoyed. For a different kind of Asian inspiration, try crispy rice with a Vietnamese lime juice and fish sauce dressing, lots of Thai or lemon basil, and cilantro and the addition of some toasted peanuts.
Add protein: If you’re sticking with the original recipe, baked tofu would be a perfect protein-rich addition. Shiitake mushrooms would be another perfect complement. You could also add shrimp, slices of steak, chicken or pork.
How to Store Crispy Rice Salad
The rice will start to lose its crunch as soon as it’s refrigerated, but the dish is still pleasant to eat regardless. If you haven’t dressed all the rice, store the dressing separately. Combine it with the other ingredients when you’re ready to eat. Keep the rice and veggies in a snap-top container and the dressing in a little glass jar.
How long does crispy rice salad last?
Leftover rice doesn’t have a long shelf life, so eat this up within two days.
Crispy Rice Salad Tips
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Why isn’t my rice crisping up in the oven?
Your oven temperature settings may not be quite right, so you could try bumping up the heat a bit. Another possible challenge is if the rice was extra moist when you started. It’s also important to get the rice grains nicely coated with oil, so that’s another thing to pay attention to.
Is it OK to skip the parchment during baking?
I tried crisping the rice both directly on a sheet pan and on a layer of parchment, and it got more evenly crispy on the parchment. That said, it won’t do any harm to cook it directly on a pan, and you can always give it an extra couple of minutes in the oven, if you’d like.
Can you cook the rice in a pan?
Yes, but it’s a fussier process. Start the recipe the same way: Mix the rice, oil and salt. Get the pan nice and hot before adding the rice. Let it crisp up on the first side, and then flip it. Finally, stir it around for a bit to help get even more bits to the crispy stage.
What can you serve with crispy rice salad?
This already makes an excellent one-dish meal, but crispy baked tofu would be a particularly excellent addition to the salad (although I also like to add raw tofu straight from the package). Looking for something more meaty? Tender flank steak, Asian chicken thighs or sheet-pan ginger-soy salmon would all be wonderful.
Want dessert? If you’re feeling creative, try making homemade mochi ice cream or mochi doughnuts.
Test Kitchen Approved
Crispy Rice Salad
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:4 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:30 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
4 cups cooked long grain rice, cooled
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 teaspoon salt
dressing:
3 tablespoons tahini
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar
1 tablespoon reduced-sodium soy sauce or gluten-free reduced-sodium tamari soy sauce
1 tablespoon water
2 teaspoons mirin (sweet rice wine) or honey
2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
Fresh gingerroot, optional
veggies:
4 cups shredded red or green cabbage
3 green onions, thinly sliced
2 cups shredded carrots
2 cups chopped cucumber
1 cup frozen shelled edamame, thawed
Sliced green onion, sesame seeds, chili crisp or shichimi togarashi seasoning, to garnish
Text Ingredients
Directions
To make the rice, preheat oven to 400°. Line a 15x10x1-in. sheet pan with parchment paper. In a large bowl, combine rice, oil and salt. Spread on prepared baking sheet in an even layer. Bake 15 minutes; flip rice with a spatula. Bake another 15 minutes or until lightly golden brown around the edges. Let cool.
Meanwhile, to make the dressing, combine tahini, oils, rice wine vinegar, soy sauce, water, mirin, garlic and ginger, if desired, in a high-speed blender; pulse until well-blended.
To make the salad, in a large bowl, toss together cooled rice, veggies and dressing. Serve with desired garnishes.
Nutrition Facts
1 serving: 584 calories, 31g fat (3g saturated fat), 0 cholesterol, 915mg sodium, 65g carbohydrate (8g sugars, 7g fiber), 13g protein.
Author
Suzanne Podhaizer
Suzanne is a chef, farmer and award-winning food writer living in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont. In her years as a restaurateur, caterer and cooking teacher, she has developed hundreds of recipes, most of which center around seasonal food. At Taste of Home, Suzanne shares even more of her fantastic recipes, from meatballs to mochi doughnuts.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box