MTG new Secret Lair reprints 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Grab some in-demand cards and help Extra Life with the new Secret Lair drop
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
By
Francesco Cacciatore
Published 16 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Donkey Kong Bananza DLC reveals the Switch 2 hit’s fatal flaw
2 days ago
A hit RPG made me rethink everything about 'weak' D&D monsters
3 days ago
Apple's new gaming app is out now and it includes features you'll swear you already had
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Wizards of the Coast/Ben Millar
Magic: The Gathering just announced the start of its yearly collaboration with Extra Life, the fundraising program to help children's hospitals. This year's initiatives begin with a new Secret Lair drop, Secret Lair X Play-Doh: Squishful Thinking, which includes four cards that are staples of the Commander format, now available with exquisitely cute art inspired by the popular modeling compound. Greensleves, Maro-Sorcerer first appeared in a Dominaria United Commander deck, and is a popular card in landfall and ramp strategies for its ability to generate Badger tokens. Polyraptor made its debut in the dinosaur-themed set Rivals of Ixalan, and is played not just in tribal decks but also in combo strategies that plan to abuse its ability to generate copies of itself. Wurmcoil Engine and Academy Manufactor are both commonly played in Commander decks, the former for being a classic colorless value creature, and the latter for its easy combo potential.
None of these cards are particularly expensive (assuming you no longer gasp at the concept of a $15 Magic card), but overall, these are welcome reprints even if you don't care about the adorable Play-Doh-inspired art. The cards all share the ability to produce tokens, as a reference to the creativity that Play-Doh inspired in generations of children. Wizards will also further support the charity with a fundraising Magic x Extra Life Game Day livestream on Twitch, running from 11 a.m. PT to 10:30 p.m. PT on Nov. 8. The Squishful Thinking Secret Lair drop will be available at MagicSecretLair.com from Sept. 29 to Nov. 9, and will be printed to demand (a welcome change from the limited printings of some recent Secret Lairs). Additionally, this Secret Lair will also be available in limited quantities at the MagicCon: Atlanta merch booth from Sept. 26–28. The non-foil set is priced at $39.99, and the foil one at $49.99. Half of the purchase price will go to support Extra Life and the kids and families at Seattle Children's Hospital.
Magic: The Gathering
Tabletop Games
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
Henry Cavill’s Witcher replacement picks up the sword in first season 4 trailer
2 days ago
Critical Role reveals Campaign 4 characters, and they're as hot and weird as you imagined
4 days ago
Star War Outlaws on Switch 2 settles it: Nintendo is in its port era now
2 days ago
Strange Horticulture's sequel turns antiquing into puzzle gold
More from our brands
Every Upcoming Magic: The Gathering Release
MTG: 25 Strongest Decks You Can Play In The Commander Format
Pokemon TCG Pocket: Best Psychic Type Decks
All Space-Time Smackdown Secret Missions in Pokemon TCG Pocket
Every Magic: The Gathering Crossover Series, Ranked
Which Of MTG's Sonic The Hedgehog Secret Lair Drops Is Worth The Most?
A Magic: The Gathering Duskmourn Card is Suddenly Three Times More Expensive
Most Popular
As Steal A Brainrot takes over Fortnite, fans worry about the platform's future
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
Aztec Batman stretches the limits of the Dark Knight past his breaking point
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Geralt's 'blood-soaked' new adventure revealed in The Witcher: Blood Stone first look
See More
Trending Now
Polygon is bringing consoles to kids in hospitals — and you can help
Tim Burton gets his first movie into the Criterion Collection
Sony's Anaconda movie reboot is, if nothing else, a really good idea
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.