We Tried Thistle Meal Delivery: It's Like Sakara Life, Only Much Cheaper - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessNutrition Meal Kits
We Tried Thistle Meal Delivery: It's Like Sakara Life, Only Much Cheaper
Thistle is a more budget-friendly version of Sakara Life. We tried Thistle's fresh salads, stir-fries, snacks and smoothies to see how they compare.
Article updated on July 3, 2025 at 12:07 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Written by
Anna Gragert
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness. Expertise Mental health, Personal care, Nutrition, Sleep
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.2/ 10
SCORE Thistle
Buy at Thistle
Pros
Tasty fresh salads, stir-fries and snacks delivered by hand
Cheaper than other similar fresh meal services
All meals are gluten-free and can be made vegan
Many ingredients sourced from local farms
Delivery was easy and on time
Cons
Still pricier than other healthy meal subscriptions
Menu is limited each week
Salads lose a little oomph after a day or two
Table of Contents
We Tried Thistle Meal Delivery: It's Like Sakara Life, Only Much Cheaper
Where does Thistle deliver?
How does Thistle work: Sign up, ordering and delivery
What we ate and how we liked it
How much does Thistle cost?
Is Thistle healthy?
Who is Thistle good for?
Who is Thistle not good for?
Final thoughts on Thistle
Thistle vs. Sakara Life: Which is better?
There are dozens of healthy meal delivery services to choose from. Some send frozen, prepared meals to thaw and eat while others offer meal kits that require cooking. Thistle is a healthy meal service that sends mostly prepared, fresh food that requires almost no prep. It's one of the healthier meal services I've tried with a variety of salads, stir-fries, snacks, juices and protein-packed breakfast meals to choose from.
Thistle meals are as healthy as they get and show up fresh. Here's what I thought of the prepared meal service. David Watsky/CNETIf you've tried or have been tempted to try Sakara Life, the Instagram-friendly fresh food delivery service Thistle is modeled after that concept. I reviewed Sakara Life in 2021 and while the vegan food was outstanding, the cost (more than $70 a day) was prohibitive. Thistle fresh meal delivery is markedly cheaper than Sakara Life (about half the price) and follows a similar model. That said, it's still not "cheap," ranging from $12-$16 per meal, depending on how many you order. Best Meal Delivery Services for 2024
See at Cnet
To see if Thistle was worth the price of admission, I tried a few day's worth of its healthy food. My delivery showed up on time and the meals were healthy, tasty and took just seconds to prepare. It's the best option for anyone seeking truly fresh meals delivered, but there are still some healthy meal services I rank above Thistle.I also reached out to our wellness editor, Anna Gragert, who has been a vegetarian for 20 years and often eats plant-based, to have her try Thistle for a few days. She tried two breakfasts, three salads, three stir-fries, one snack, two desserts and one smoothie.
David Watsky/CNETWhere does Thistle deliver?As of this writing, Thistle is delivering to select cities on the East Coast and West Coast. West Coast: San Francisco Bay Area, Napa & Sonoma, Sacramento, Davis, Los Angeles, San Diego, Santa Cruz, Orange County, Inland Empire, Ventura County, Palm Springs, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz, Las Vegas, Portland and Seattle-TacomaEast Coast: New York City, Philadelphia, Washington D.C., Arlington VA, and parts of New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut.To see if you are in Thistle's delivery zone click here.Healthiest Meal Delivery Services We Tried
See at Cnet
How does Thistle work: Sign up, ordering and deliveryAfter signing up for Thistle, you'll plug in some dietary preferences, including which types of ingredients or foods you avoid in your diet, as well as what sort of protein you're eating. There are options for meat eaters, vegetarians, vegans and flexitarians.
Thistle meal plans Screenshot by David Watsky/CNETYou'll also choose how many meals you want per day. You can order any combination of breakfast, lunch, dinner meals and snacks for up to five days per week. Typically Thistle sends a delivery of curated meals for the week but you can view the order and make changes ahead of delivery. Thistle also has cold-press juices and wellness shots to add to your weekly haul.
Thistle bags can be reused or picked up by the messenger at your next meal drop. ThistleMeals are delivered by hand in an insulated bag via messenger on the day or days of your choosing. If you sign up for text alerts, you'll be cued into the arrival, down to the minute so you don't miss them. You can leave last week's insulated bags outside and the delivery person will pick them up during their next meal drop. Because the fresh food is not meant to be frozen, Thistle delivers food either once or twice per week, depending on the number of meals you choose.
Thistle's weekly menus are laid out for you on the website. Screenshot by David Watsky/CNETOne thing that separates Thistle from the rest of the pack is that they deliver only fresh food, nothing is frozen or premade and vacuum-sealed. Everything can be eaten as is, or there is the option to heat certain meals in a skillet and mix in the sauce if you prefer a hot lunch or dinner. Thistle's meals are healthy, full of whole ingredients and gluten-free, even the pasta. The food has minimally processed foods and contains lots of superfoods, such as sweet potatoes, ancient grains, nuts, fruit, veggies and lean meats. What we ate and how we liked itI tried two full days' worth of thistle meals that included two salads, two stir-fry meals, two breakfast meals and three snacks. Anna tried two breakfasts, three salads, three stir-fries, one snack, two desserts and one smoothie for three days.
I thought everything was good and some were better than good, but nothing blew my socks off. The produce was fresh, but by day three, some of the greens weren't as crisp and the veggies lost a little of their snap. The stir-fry meals, which I heated in a frying pan along with the sauce, never lost their oomph.
I heated my Thistle vegan Panang curry in a skillet. David Watsky/CNETKale Caesar pasta with garlic and garbanzo beans:  This meal was tasty with a knife, light Caesar dressing and lots of garlic.
I'm a sucker for a good Caesar and Thistle's healthy version delivered.  David Watsky/CNETCrispy chickpea, Greek salad with pulled chicken: The salad also had quinoa and toasted garbanzo beans. I thought the Greek dressing was sharp and delicious and the salad overall was good but the chicken was dry.
Thistle's Greek salad was just OK. The garbanzo beans were hard and the dressing was very basic. David Watsky/CNETButternut squash and pear pasta salad with garlic and garbanzo beans: This meal was just OK. The pasta was a little mushy and garbanzo beans could have been cooked more. The dressing was a simple balsamic vinegarette.
The panang curry was on the small side but very tasty and fresh. David Watsky/CNETPanang peanut curry with togarashi seeds: This panang curry was more tangy and less sweet but all the flavors worked for me. My favorite meal of the lot.
You can eat the stir-fries as is but I chose to cook them for a few minutes in a skillet with the sauce. David Watsky/CNETClean crunch salad with lentils: Anna enjoyed this salad and the variety of greens, veggies and seeds it offered. Paired with an Italian dressing, it was flavorful and filling. Togarashi pop salad with sesame edamame: This was another hit with our wellness editor. She especially loved the tangy gochujang sauce as a dressing along with the togarashi seasoning, which includes sesame seeds, poppy seeds, chili flakes and nori.
Anna Gragert/CNETBaharat sweet potato salad with Moroccan chickpeas: A good source of fiber and plant protein, our wellness editor thought this was another delicious salad paired with a lovely garlicky tahini sauce and sweet potatoes nicely seasoned with cinnamon, clove and cardamom. Harvest stir-fry with baked tofu: This low-calorie stir-fry had a nice mix of fresh-tasting veggies, tofu and a tangy, spicy sauce. It only took our wellness editor 3 minutes on the stove to prepare.
Anna Gragert/CNETPad thai with sesame baked tofu: Our wellness editor found this low-calorie dish to be a good source of protein and iron. She enjoyed the freshness of the cabbage and spinach and the crunch offered by the peanuts. The sauce was also very flavorful. TMP primo pesto pasta with lemon spring peas: Made with no gluten ingredients, this vegan pasta was extremely tasty and offered a great variety of veggies and greens. The chickpea pasta was also comparable to regular pasta and had a nice bite to it.
Anna Gragert/CNETSnacks and breakfast: smoothies, protein bars and crudite: The peanut butter and banana smoothie was tasty but on the small side. I make smoothies most mornings for breakfast and they are about twice the size of this one.
The steel-cut oat bowl was good but the sauce was pretty sweet. David Watsky/CNETThe steel-cut oat bowl with granola and dulce de leche was fine but the sauce was a little sweet for me. The granola meant to be put on top of the smoothie was very good. Also included was a vegan crudites platter with gherkin pickles, carrot sticks, tomatoes and vegan cheese dip.
Thistle's smoothie was good but not enough food to keep me full until lunch. David Watsky/CNETMy favorite of the snacks were Thistle's homemade protein bars. One was peanut butter and chocolate ganache and the other a mango-granola bar. Both were excellent and they gave me a solid energy boost around mid-afternoon.
Thistle's peanut butter and chocolate energy bar was dynamite.  David Watsky/CNETSmashed Sonoma chickpea snack plate: Our wellness editor loved this snack plate. It came with grapes, seed crackers and a chickpea salad that was like a plant-based chicken salad. She plans to try to re-create it in the future. Tahini-java smoothie: This was a flavorful, filling smoothie that came with plantain chips and puffed quinoa as a topping. While the chips were too big for the smoothie, the puffed quinoa added a nice crunch. Our wellness editor loved the combination of banana, tahini and chocolate.
Anna Gragert/CNETLemon berry oats: Our wellness editor enjoyed this tasty breakfast after heating it for 40 seconds in the microwave with a few tablespoons of water. She especially enjoyed it paired with the vegan coconut cream. Strawberry-rhubarb crumble with vanilla cashew buttercream: This recipe calls for heating in a toaster oven, but our wellness editor doesn't have one, so she resorted to placing the crumble in the microwave for a few minutes until it was hot. She also enjoyed this breakfast, but went light on the cashew buttercream so it wouldn't become too sweet. The strawberries were a nice touch on the side.
Anna GragertChocolate caramel muesli bar: This is a great healthy dessert that could be split into two servings. Our wellness editor liked the combination of dates and tahini to create a healthier caramel. Millionaire bar: Our wellness editor found this to be a great, plant-based, healthier replacement for an actual millionaire bar. Instead of caramel, tahini, maple syrup and date syrup were used. She also liked the cassava flour shortbread layer at the bottom.
Anna Gragert/CNETHow much does Thistle cost? If you choose 16 meals per week the cost breakdown is about $11 for breakfast and $12 for lunch and dinner. The fewer meals you choose the more expensive they become. There's a minimum order of three meals per week which would cost you more like $14 for breakfast and $16 for lunch and dinner. Snacks are additional and optional and cost $6.50 per snack no matter which plan you choose.Thistle cost per week:3 meals per week: $45.31 ($15.11 per meal)6 meals per week: $87.62 ($14.60 per meal)12 meals per week: $162.24 ($13.52 per meal)16 meals per week: $199.33 ($12.46 per meal)Thistle's meal containers are plastic but are fully recyclable as are the dressing containers. The only part of this whole delivery that isn't recyclable are the ice packs but you can return those with the bags or reuse them yourself.
My Thistle meals were all solid but there are other meal delivery services I've tested in this price range that I liked more. ThistleIs Thistle healthy?Our wellness editor found Thistle to be a healthy meal service. However, she recommends checking the nutrition facts for your chosen meals to ensure they align with your diet and health goals. She also found the meals to have a great variety of fresh ingredients and healthier substitutes. If you struggle to prepare healthy meals for yourself, this could be a good option.Who is Thistle good for?If you're looking for easy lunches and dinners, but don't care for fully premade food that was cooked days before and frozen or vacuum-sealed, Thistle is a good bet. The service focuses on healthy and whole foods with lots of salad greens, nuts and roasted vegetables. While some meals have meat, most of them are plant-based and all of them can be made vegan so this is a good option for someone cutting down or eliminating meat from their diet. Our wellness editor agrees that this is a great service for prepared vegan meals that taste fresh, offer a variety of greens and veggies and are easy to grab and heat up. Because Thistle's meals do not contain gluten ingredients, they could also be great for someone who is on a gluten-free diet.Best Vegan Meal Delivery for 2024
See at Cnet
Who is Thistle not good for? Even if you choose the largest (cheapest per-meal) meal plan, Thistle meals are still an expensive way to eat so this is not a good option for anyone on a tight budget. Thistle is also not great for those with unpredictable schedules. Because the food does not freeze well, you'll want to eat your meals within a few days of delivery. Portions are on the small side so this probably isn't the right meal subscription for a big eater. Final thoughts on Thistle I thought Thistle's healthy meals were often good but rarely great. The produce was fresh and the sauces and dressings were light and flavorful. In comparison to other wellness-focused meal subscriptions I've tested in the $12 to $15 range there were a few I liked better overall, including Fresh N Lean, CookUnity and Mosaic Foods. Our wellness editor, on the other hand, loved all the Thistle meals she tried. While it can be on the pricier side, if you're a vegan or are gluten-free and don't have time to cook, this would be a great option for fresh-tasting, flavorful food that is either ready to go or requires a few minutes in the microwave or on the stovetop.If you're interested in having truly fresh food -- not frozen or vacuum-packed meals -- delivered weekly that includes preassembled salads and stir-fries, Thistle is your best option. If you choose one of the larger meal plans, the price per meal comes in at a reasonable $12. Choose a smaller meal plan and you'll pay more like $15 per meal, which doesn't seem worth it. Sign up at ThistleThistle vs. Sakara Life: Which is better?
Sakara Life is roughly twice the cost of a Thistle meal subscription. The food is a bit better and more interesting but not worth that price jump. Sakara LifeThistle and Sakara Life operate with very similar business models delivering fresh food for your week while Sakara's meals are of a higher quality. The price for Sakara -- more than $20 per meal -- is astronomical and Thistle offers a more approachable version of fresh food delivery with meals as low as $12 or $13 if you choose one of the larger plans. If money is no object, go for Sakara, because the food is better and more interesting. If you like the concept of Sakara Life but don't want to spend hundreds every week, Thistle is the better pick.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Nutrition Guides
Meal Delivery
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Hungryroot Review
EveryPlate Review
Best Vegan Meal Delivery Service
Best Vegetarian Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Best Grocery Delivery Service
Fresh N Lean Review
Blue Apron vs. Hello Fresh
Dieting Program Guides
Best Weight Loss Programs
Optavia Diet Review
Noom Diet Review
Nutrisystem Diet Review
Weight Watchers Diet Review
Noom vs. Weight Watchers
Vitamin and Supplement Guides
Best Multivitamins
Best Multivitamins for Men
Best Multivitamins for Women
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Probiotics
Best Supplements to Gain Weight
Best Vitamin Subscription
Best Vitamins for Energy
Best Vitamins and Supplements for Joint Health
Best Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.