This versatile Insta360 8K, 360-degree action camera just hit an all-time-low price | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Photo & Video
This versatile Insta360 8K, 360-degree action camera just hit an all-time-low price
You don't need to wait till Prime Day to buy the Insta360 X4 at its lowest price ever.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 8:51 a.m. PT
Ant Pruitt/ZDNETInsta360 X4: Save 32% ZD recommends
4/5 Editor's deal rating View at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The Insta360 X5 is the company's latest flagship action camera -- one that I consider the best travel camera (I take it everywhere I go), but it might not be accessible to many people, considering its $550 price. This is why the last-gen Insta360 X4 remains a solid alternative to the X5 -- and it's now more affordable. Ahead of Amazon Prime Day in October, Insta360 has slashed the price of its older flagship 360-degree action camera.If you have been eyeing a high-resolution, 360-degree action camera and the X5 is out of your budget, you are in luck. The Insta360 X4 is now available at an all-time low of $340, or 32% off. It is one of those few last-gen products that I still recommend, even more so with the price drop. Also: I took this 360-degree camera around the world - why it's still the most versatile gear I own
ZD recommends
Insta360 X4: Save 32%
View at Amazon While the Insta360 X5 is better in terms of low-light videos and extra capabilities, the X4 remains a strong contender for your next rugged camera. It still gets you 8K, 360-degree camera capabilities with amazing stabilization and invisible selfie stick effect.Review: Insta360 X4Here's why you should still consider the Insta360 X4
Insta360 X4 Ant Pruitt/ZDNETAs compared to the Insta360 X4, the new X5 will get you double the processing chips, replaceable lenses, waterproofing till 15m (versus 10m on X4), InstaFrame, and PureVideo Modes. These might seem like major differences, but in terms of usability, you get slightly better colors and improved battery life, and sharper low-light footage. But the Insta360 X4 can still be considered for a few reasons:You get the same resolution: The Insta360 X4 supports recording videos in 8K at 30fps, 5.7K+ in 30fps, and 5.7K in 60fps, which is the same as the new X5. So, you are getting the same resolution for $210 less.Still a solid feature set: Apart from the 8K resolution, the Insta360 is waterproof till 10 meters, sports dual 1/2-inch sensors, and offers satisfactory battery life. Sure, you miss out on a couple of video modes but they are more for convenience than essentials.You already have a few batteries: Insta360 redesigned X5's battery to improve its battery life. If you don't want to spend on extra cells and already have a few lying around from your older generation 360-degree X-series cameras, the X4 would be a better choice since it'll be backwards compatible with those batteries.You don't want to spend $500 on a camera: Dropping $550 on the X5 doesn't make sense for beginners. If you aren't sure you'll be using your new 360-degree camera often, the X4 will be a great starting point at $340.How I rated this dealBased on the 32% off savings being offered, ZDNET's rating system gives this a 4/5 Editor's deal rating. This is the best offer we've seen for Insta360's last-gen flagship X4 action camera since launch. It is one of the most enticing discounts, and anything off on this capable camera is worth grabbing.When will this deal expire?While Prime Day is still a few weeks away, this Insta360 X4 deal is already live. It will expire on Sept. 28, 2025. But deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com. How do we rate deals at ZDNET?We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
The MacBook Air is on sale for $799 - Here's why I recommend it for most people
I tested the best $20 security camera you can buy (and it works outdoors)
I replaced my iPhone 16 Pro Max with a 360-degree camera for underwater videos - it was so worth it
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use