Best Sam's Club deals to compete with October Prime Day 2025: My favorite 10+ deals | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Best Sam's Club deals to compete with October Prime Day 2025: My favorite 10+ deals
You don't have to run to Amazon to find great deals on tech. Before October Prime Day, check out the best deals at Sam's Club.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
and
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 24, 2025 at 8:26 a.m. PT
Apple Watch Series 10 | for $329 (save $60)
Apple Watch Series 10
for $329 (save $60)
View now View at Sam's Club LG 70-inch UQ7070 Series 4K UHD smart TV | for $397 (save $130)
LG 70-inch UQ7070 Series 4K UHD smart TV
for $397 (save $130)
View now View at Sam's Club Samsung 58-inch U7900F Series 4K TV | for $298 (save $100)
Samsung 58-inch U7900F Series 4K TV
for $298 (save $100)
View now View at Sam's Club Arlo Essential indoor security cameras | for $59 (save $70)
Arlo Essential indoor security cameras
for $59 (save $70)
View now View at Samsclub Roborock QRT78 robot vacuum and mop | for $500 (save $130)
Roborock QRT78 robot vacuum and mop
for $500 (save $130)
View now View at Sam's Club
Sam's Club is a great place to shop if you want to get the most bang for your buck, but every time a sales event comes around, the deals get even better. Even if the Prime Big Deal Days sale (otherwise known as October Prime Day) is an Amazon event, Sam's Club is taking the opportunity to feature some of the lowest prices we've seen all year -- on multiple products.Also: Amazon October Prime Day: Everything you need to knowAs a membership wholesale retailer, Sam's Club offers the best savings to its members, much like Costco. Non-members can still shop with a guest account online, but deals and big discounts are reserved for members. A standard Sam's Club membership costs $50 a year, and lets you shop at the store online and in-person, plus discounted fuel prices, Scan & Go service, and more. A Plus membership costs $110 and offers all the perks of a Club membership, plus 2% cash back and early shopping hours.Here are the best deals you can find at Sam's Club ahead of the Prime Big Deal Days starts on Oct. 7. Find Prime Day dealsBest Sam's Club deals to compete with Prime Day 2025
Apple Watch Series 10 for $329 (save $60)
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
Current price: $329 (15% off)Original price: $389The Apple Watch Series 10 is a popular wearable among ZDNET authors, and for good reason. It's stylish, you can choose from countless straps and a number of finishes depending on your style, and most importantly, it offers strong connectivity, health monitoring, and more. You can save $60 off the typical RRP.Review: The Apple Watch Series 10 is one of my favorite wearables in 2025
Show more
View now at Sam's Club
LG 70-inch UQ7070 Series 4K UHD smart TV for $397 (save $130)
LG
Current price: $397 (25% off)Original price: $527Alternatively, if you are willing to spend a bit more to maximize your display size, consider the 25% discount on an LG model. This smart TV offers a 70-inch display, a 60Hz refresh rate, an AI-backed processor, and an Ultra HD 4K resolution.
Show more
View now at Sam's Club
Samsung 58-inch U7900F Series 4K TV for $298 (save $100)
Samsung
Current price: $298 (25% off)Original price: $398With $100 off, this Sam's Club deal on a 58-inch Samsung TV capable of 4K Ultra HD resolution, a reasonable 60Hz refresh rate, frame prediction, and upscaling should be on your radar. Stocks are low, so be quick.
Show more
View now at Sam's Club
Arlo Essential indoor security cameras for $59 (save $70)
Arlo/ZDNET
Current price: $59Original price: $129I've used a variety of Arlo products, alongside testing many other kinds of security cameras, and I find them to be excellent -- whether they're used indoors or out. If you're interested in testing an indoor Arlo with 2K support, consider this discount on a two-pack. Also: I tested a battery-powered security camera with color night vision - and can't go back
Show more
View now at Samsclub
Roborock QRT78 robot vacuum and mop for $500 (save $130)
Roborock
Current price: $500 (21% off)Original price: $630Roborock is a popular brand in the robot household appliance market, and it is well-known for robot vacuums and mops. This model, now available with a $130 discount, comes with self-emptying functionality, mapping, and 10,000Pa suction.
Show more
View now at Sam's Club
More Sam's Club dealsVIZIO 50-inch Class 4K Series LED Smart TV: $198 (save $71): Looking for a cheap TV with at least 50 inches of display space? Check out the deal on this VIZIO model.HP Victus 15L gaming desktop: $1,199 (save $150): We've also spotted a reasonable deal on a gaming desktop, set with a 12th-gen Intel i7 processor and Nvidia RTXTM 3060 Graphics.Sony PlayStation VR2 Horizon Call of the Mountain Bundle: $399 (save $200): If you're interested in exploring the world of gaming virtual reality, consider this VR2 headset bundle. Skullcandy Crusher Evo O wireless headphones: $59 (save $40): These over-ear headphones from Skullcandy are also on sale, and for $59, it's not a bad deal -- especially if you're a fan of bass.Lenovo ThinkPad T16 G2 laptop: $749 (save $150): The mid-range Lenovo ThinkPad T16 G2 is a 16-inch laptop equipped with an Intel Core i5 processor, 16GB of RAM, and 1TB SSD storage.FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? This year, Amazon's October Prime Day sale runs on Oct. 7-8. The sale will last for two days, and you can expect to see a range of deals on electronics, homeware, garden products, fashion, and more. Are Sam's Club deals really cheaper on Prime Day? The US retailer is likely to launch its own deals or at least price match some of the sales, although this may only include Sam's Club members. Still, it's worth keeping an eye on for interesting promotions. How did we choose these October Prime Day deals?ZDNET authors only write about deals that interest us personally and include products that we own or want to buy. Our experts scour the market for deals that are at least 20% off (or are normally not on sale, as is often the case with Apple and other high-end devices), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal actually represents value for your money. We also reviewed customer reviews to learn what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we recommend.
Show more
What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget dealsOur top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
Best early Target Circle Week deals to compete with Prime Day: I'm tracking 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use