When you go to bed may matter more than how long you sleep | National Geographic
PremiumHEALTHWhen you go to bed may matter more than how long you sleep You might be tempted to sleep in after a late night—but scientists have found that it’s better for your brain and heart health to stick to your regular schedule.The key to better sleep may not be spending more hours in bed. Evidence suggests that having a consistent sleep schedule is more important for our health than the number of hours we sleep.Photograph by Joyce Lee, The New York Times/ReduxByDaryl AustinSeptember 25, 2025When most of us work on getting better sleep, we usually focus on duration: the seven to nine hours of recommended nightly rest. But sleep scientists and a growing body of evidence suggest that keeping a consistent sleep schedule may matter even more than how long you sleep.From large-scale population studies to carefully designed clinical trials, researchers are finding that going to bed and waking up at the same time every day can sharpen cognition and boost mental health, support metabolic health and immune function, strengthen your heart, and lower dementia risk. (Are you a ‘lark’ or an ‘owl’? Your body clock holds the answer.)“Maintaining a consistent sleep-wake schedule may serve as one of the simplest, most overlooked ways to protect long-term health,” says Wendy Troxel, a senior behavioral sleep scientist at the RAND Corporation.Consistency may even extend your life. “Sleep regularity is a stronger predictor of all-cause mortality compared to sleep duration,” says Shadab Rahman, a neuroscientist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and an assistant professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School. That’s encouraging, he adds, because unlike many other health factors, sleep consistency “is largely within our control.”Here’s what to know about the benefits of keeping a consistent sleep schedule—plus science-backed tips to help you commit to one.Why consistency matters Keeping a steady sleep schedule matters because your body runs on an internal clock—called circadian rhythm—that governs when you feel sleepy or alert. It also regulates critical “reset” processes that take place during sleep, explains Janis Anderson, a sleep medicine researcher and psychologist at the University of New Mexico.THIS WEEK ONLYSEE SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONSGoing to bed and waking up at the same time each day keeps this clock in sync, ensuring the steady release of hormones like melatonin to help you fall asleep at night and cortisol to help you wake the next morning.A steady rhythm also supports memory storage, cell reparation, and brain-cleansing processes. “The more consistent a person’s sleep/wake schedule is, the better the body's various processes can coordinate and be optimized,” Anderson says.(Your brain ‘washes’ itself at night. Sleep aids may get in the way.)Cardiovascular and metabolic and longevity benefits That consistency also has proven consequences for metabolism and heart health. “Maintaining a consistent sleep schedule is the foundation on which everything else rests,” says Steve Amira, a physician and sleep researcher at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Massachusetts.Irregular sleep has been shown to disrupt blood pressure regulation, increase systemic inflammation, and interfere with glucose metabolism—in part because circadian rhythms help orchestrate these processes.For instance, when sleep timing is inconsistent, the body may release stress hormones like cortisol at the wrong times, thereby straining blood vessels and impairing glucose regulation. Over time, this can contribute to hypertension, insulin resistance, and even chronic inflammation.(The toll that sleep apnea takes on your body.)These adverse effects show up in large-scale analyses. A five-year Harvard review of more than 40,000 studies, for instance, found that stable bedtimes were associated with increased alertness, stronger heart health, reduced inflammation, “and better outcomes across nearly every dimension of health,” says Charles Czeisler, an author of the study and the division of sleep medicine director at Harvard Medical School.Such findings help explain a 2024 U.K. Biobank study of more than 88,000 people, which found that sleep regularity predicted mortality risk better than total sleep time.Troxel adds that inconsistent sleep also “creates circadian misalignment”—disrupting hormones, immunity, and even daily behaviors like eating and exercise. Such factors are among the reasons the World Health Organization classifies chronic circadian disruption—such as what night-shift workers experience—as a probable carcinogen.You May Also LikeHEALTHHow magnesium affects your sleep and anxietyHEALTHYour brain could be 'older' than your age—and it's easier than ever to find outSCIENCEYour brain ‘washes’ itself at night. Sleep aids may get in the way.In short, “those who keep regular sleep schedules live longer than those who don’t,” says Meir Kryger, professor emeritus of medicine at Yale and author of The Mystery of Sleep.Brain health and dementia riskThe brain, too, thrives on consistency as irregular sleep has been tied to cognitive decline and higher dementia risk. Yue Cao and colleagues at the University of Tsukuba in Japan came to this conclusion in a 2025 study that tracked 458 older adults using wearable devices.The team found that those with more consistent sleep schedules showed stronger thinking skills and higher levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)—a protein vital for memory retention and brain plasticity. Disrupted rhythms, by contrast, have been linked to accumulation of amyloid-beta—a toxic protein implicated in Alzheimer’s disease.  (While you sleep, your brain goes on an amazing journey.)Interestingly, the Tsukuba research also showed that while sharper thinking skills rose steadily with more consistent sleep, BDNF levels didn’t climb in a straight line. Cao says this suggests that you don't need to be overly rigid with your sleep schedule and that it's okay if you occasionally miss a night or two. The research, “adds important evidence that sleep regularity influences brain health,” says Rahman, who was not involved in the study.Practical strategies for better sleepWhile everyone wants the benefits associated with a consistent sleep schedule, perfect regularity is rarely realistic. After all, plenty of factors can sabotage steady sleep habits, including demanding jobs, caffeine and alcohol use, late-night gaming, stress, medical conditions, social media distractions, and even taking daytime naps.Amira explains that three conditions must align for steady sleep: you need to be in sync with the natural 24-hour day/night cycle, you need to have built about 16 hours of wakefulness to generate enough “sleep pressure,” and you need the ability to relax at bedtime. “A breakdown in any of these can undermine even the best intentions,” he says.Small, steady habits can help, says Andrea Goldstein-Piekarski, a behavioral sleep scientist at Stanford School of Medicine. Some of these habits include:Manage light exposure. Czeisler notes that the most critical factor for improving sleep consistency "is regularity in terms of exposure to light." This means increasing your exposure to light—ideally outdoor light—throughout the day and decreasing it after sunset, especially blue light from screens. It also means "no devices in bed," advises Kryger. Use an alarm clock. Waking at the same time—even after a late night—helps anchor the circadian clock, says Paul Gringras, a professor and clinical lead of sleep medicine at King’s College London.(There's a better way to wake up. Here's what experts advise.)Create a sleep sanctuary. A dark, quiet, cool room encourages deeper rest. “The optimal sleep temperature is roughly 63° to 82°F,” notes Gringras. Comfortable bedding and light sleepwear also matter. Limit stimulants and alcohol. "While people often use caffeine during the day to help boost wakefulness, consuming caffeine in the afternoon may make it harder to fall asleep at night and can negatively impact sleep quality," says Goldstein-Piekarski. "Even consuming caffeine six hours before bedtime can disrupt sleep.And stimulation isn’t only chemical. Mental arousal from late-night arguments, work problems, or consuming upsetting news can also keep the brain alert and make it harder to fall asleep. "Avoid any activity that might cause your brain to be excessively aroused before going to bed," Kryger suggests. Establish a bedtime routine. A calming ritual—like reading, a warm bath, or changing into sleepwear—signals to the body that it’s time to wind down and reinforces the brain’s association with the pending rest, Rahman says. Avoid over-correction. While it's tempting to compensate for a late night by sleeping in, Troxel advises sticking as close to your usual wake-up time as possible instead to avoid confusing your circadian system.While these approaches work for many, “there isn’t a one-size-fits-all solution,” Goldstein-Piekarski notes. Instead, she says habits should be tailored to your individual needs.Whichever strategies you choose, any efforts put into consistency are sure to pay off. “In our 24/7 society, it’s not easy to set aside enough time for sleep or keep a regular schedule,” says Czeisler. “But when we make sleep a priority, the short- and long-term benefits for health, performance, and safety are striking.”Related TopicsSLEEPHEALTHBRAINHEARTBODYYou May Also LikeSCIENCEMore parents are using sleep aids for their kids. Experts say they shouldn't.SCIENCENoise pollution harms more than your hearingSCIENCEAn aspirin a day may do more harm than goodSCIENCEDaylight saving time is back. Here are 7 tips for better sleep.HEALTHCoffee naps might be the weirdest—and smartest—way to rechargeLegalTerms of UsePrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationOur SitesNat Geo HomeAttend a Live EventBook a TripBuy MapsInspire Your KidsShop Nat GeoVisit the D.C. MuseumWatch TVLearn About Our ImpactSupport Our MissionMastheadPress RoomAdvertise With UsJoin UsSubscribeCustomer ServiceRenew SubscriptionManage Your SubscriptionWork at Nat GeoSign Up for Our NewslettersContribute to Protect the PlanetFollow usNational Geographic InstagramNational Geographic FacebookNational Geographic TwitterNational Geographic YoutubeNational Geographic LinkedinNational Geographic TiktokNational Geographic RedditUnited States (Change)Copyright © 1996-2015 National Geographic SocietyCopyright © 2015-2025 National Geographic Partners, LLC. All rights reserved