Follow your favorite sites and creators in Google Discover - now with just one click | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Business
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Business
Companies
Google
Follow your favorite sites and creators in Google Discover - now with just one click
Google now lets you choose which publishers and creators appear in Discover - and you can make ZDNET one of them.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 11:42 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysYou can now follow your favorite publishers in Google Discover.Discover shows not just articles but videos and social posts too.Follow ZDNET to get more of our latest news, reviews, and guides.Google Discover is getting a major upgrade that finally lets you take control of what shows up.You might not have heard about Discover, but you've definitely seen it. It's the personalized feed that appears when you swipe right from your Android phone's home screen, open the Google app, or start a new Chrome tab on your device. It constantly refreshes with a scrollable list of content -- articles (and now, videos and social posts) -- that Google thinks you'll like.
Also: You can run a Google search in Windows now - no browser neededFor publishers like ZDNET, it's a huge deal because it's one of the main ways readers find our articles -- including our news, reviews, and guides -- all without having to search for them. Discover has long been algorithm-based, which means you're completely at the mercy of what Google chooses to serve up, although it takes into consideration your search history.
But just like how Google Search recently added the option to prioritize sites in its Top Stories carousel, Discover now lets you directly follow your favorite publishers and creators. That means you can tell Google you want to see more ZDNET -- and it should listen.
How to follow sites in Google Discover
What you'll need: Right now, you can follow publishers and creators in the Google app on Android and iOS. You can still access Discover in other places, but the follow option only appears when you're scrolling through Discover in the Google app. Your follows are tied to your Google account, so your personalized feed should travel with you between devices and apps.
1. Open the Google app
First, you need to get to Discover. That means you need to open the Google app. On most Android phones, it's preinstalled, but you can download it from the Google Play Store or Apple App Store if you're on iOS.Open (or download) the Google app.Make sure you're signed into your Google account. (Tap your profile icon in the top right of the app.)The Discover feed usually appears right on the app's home screen, just below the Search bar.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Look for content you like and hit follow
As you scroll through Discover, you'll see a new Follow button on content from supported publishers and creators. Letting Google know you want to see more of their content is as simple as tapping the button.In your Discover feed, find a story, video, or post.Tap the new Follow button that appears next to the publisher or creator's name (for example, ZDNET).That's it. Discover should now prioritize content from sites, publishers, and creators you love.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Optional: Other ways to customize Discover
Discover has other features that allow you to better signal to Google what you want to see in your feed. You can, for instance, simply tap through and actually read or watch the content in Discover, to show Google what you like to see. Also: This free Chrome tool cleans up your Google searchesBut you can also "heart" or like content in the Google app, and you can click the three-dot more options button on content to tell Google you want to see less like that, are not interested, or you can even ask Google to not show any content at all from that specific publisher. If you want the best experience, I recommend taking all these steps.Tap on content: Open and read or watch content in your feed to show Google what interests you.Like content: Tap the heart icon on content to give positive feedback.Use the three-dot menu: On any content card, tap the three dots to see less content like this, mark a topic as "not interested," or block content from a specific publisher.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQs
What is Google Discover?
Google Discover is a personalized content feed you can access by swiping right from your Android home screen, opening the Google app, or starting a new Chrome tab on your phone. It uses your interests, Google Search history, and now your follows to serve up articles, videos, and social posts from around the web that you might want to see. For many publishers, it's a major traffic source.
Also: How to get rid of AI Overviews in Google Search: 4 easy waysIn September, Google updated Discover with a Follow button and more types of content. Alongside articles, Discover now includes short-form videos and social posts from platforms like YouTube, Instagram, and X. These may appear grouped together under certain topics in a single card, which you can tap to open a dedicated space with related recent articles, videos, and posts.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETHow do I unfollow something in Discover?If you change your mind about a publisher or creator, it's easy to unfollow them.
Open the Google app.Tap your profile icon in the top right.Go to Search personalization.Tap Following.You'll see a list of everything you follow. Just tap Unfollow on the ones you don't want anymore.This "Following" setting also affects notifications and personalization across other Google products, so check it occasionally.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETHow do I see my favorite publishers in Google Search?  Beyond Discover, Google Search recently added the option to choose preferred news sources in Google Search's Top Stories carousel. I also wrote a full guide that walks you through how to tell Google you want to see more of ZDNET when browsing news.
Show more
Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
AI's free web scraping days may be over, thanks to this new licensing protocol
You can run a Google search directly in Windows now - no browser needed
Why Techmeme is still every tech pro's go-to news source after 20 years
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use