ERIC - Advanced Search Tips
NotesFAQContact Us
Collection
Thesaurus
AdvancedSearch Tips
Peer reviewed only
Full text available on ERIC
Collection
Thesaurus
BrowseThesaurus
Include Synonyms
Include Dead terms
How does the ERIC search work?
ERIC will look for your search terms across a set of key ERIC fields: title,
author, source, abstract and descriptor.
You can also enter an ERIC accession number (ERIC ID) to search for the ERIC document itself, as well as
documents that mention or cite the document by ID. An ISBN, ISSN, EISSN or IES Grant/Contract Number may
also be entered directly into the search box.Ranking of results is determined by many factors
including the publication date (more recent publications are favored).
This video helps users understand how to
find information in an intuitive way and, in most cases, without the need for advanced search logic. The
video demonstrates how simple search strategies can be an effective way to search the ERIC database.
How do I create more specific searches?
ERIC field names
abstract
assessment
audience
author
descriptor
educationlevel
e_yearadded
iesgrantcontractnum
institution
language
law
location
publicationtype
pubyear
source
sponsor
title
ERIC filter names*
pubyearmax
pubyearmin
IES ERIC options
funded:y
wwcr:y
wwcr:r
wwcr:n
Use quotes to group words into specific phrases:
"no child left
behind"
maryland
"no child left behind"
"west virginia"
"no child left behind"
Use the field:term syntax to target specific ERIC fields:
author:young
author:"john young"
"regression analysis"
title:"test scores"
abstract:"no
child left behind" pubyear:2002
Add a filter:value to further restrict search results by a publication year range:
abstract:"no
child left behind" pubyearmin:2016
naep
pubyearmin:1976 pubyearmax:1980
Use the field:term syntax to target IES Funded and/or What Works Clearinghouse
(WWC) Reviewed documents:
funded:y
will
show IES Funded documents.
For WWC Reviewed documents:
wwcr:y
Meets Evidence Standards without Reservations
wwcr:r
Meets Evidence Standards with Reservations
wwcr:n
Does Not Meet Evidence Standards
What other advanced options are available?
For exact, case-sensitive field searches, you may use: descriptorx,
sourcex, locationx, lawx and
assessmentx. For example, while source:"higher education" would include results
with the source "Chronicle of Higher Education", the exact search for sourcex:"Higher Education"
would only return results with the source "Higher Education".
You can use AND/OR to limit the search, with parentheses if required. For example, (prekindergarten
OR kindergarten) AND literacy will return findings with either the term prekindergarten or
kindergarten that also contain the word literacy.
You can require search terms using the + symbol in front of one or more words or phrases in your
search. For example, +title:regression multivariate
hierarchical linear would return only results with the term regression, with the terms
multivariate, hierarchical, and linear being optionally searched in all
fields.
You can exclude search terms using the - symbol in the same way you would use a + symbol. For
example, for information on bullying, but not focused by sexual orientation, search bullying -gay.
You can combine any advanced syntax into a single search: regression
(autism OR autistic) -descriptor:"regression analysis" -descriptor:"regression
(statistics)" descriptor:autism
* Note: Filters must be combined with at least one other search term and cannot be used
with AND/OR/+/-, etc.
Privacy | Copyright | Contact Us | Selection Policy | API | MetricsJournals | Non-Journals | Download | Submit | Multimedia | Widget