ERIC - Content Disclaimers – Website and FAQs
NotesFAQContact Us
Collection
Thesaurus
AdvancedSearch Tips
Peer reviewed only
Full text available on ERIC
Collection
Thesaurus
BrowseThesaurus
Include Synonyms
Include Dead terms
Copyright PolicyThe ERIC website contains full-text resources protected by U.S. and foreign copyright laws. The authors or publishers retain copyright to these works, which are used by ERIC with permission. All persons reproducing, redistributing, or making commercial use of this information are responsible for compliance with the terms and conditions asserted by the copyright holder. Transmission or reproduction of protected items beyond that allowed by fair use as defined in the copyright laws requires the written permission of the copyright owners. ERIC does not retain copyright to the works indexed in the database and cannot grant permission to use indexed works under copyright protection.
Certain works, including documents, reports, and other materials authored by the U.S. government, reside in the public domain and may be freely distributed and copied. Works authored by a private contractor on behalf of the U.S. government are not necessarily in the public domain. Contract terms and conditions vary from one agency to another. If the copyright status of a particular work is uncertain, it should be verified with the sponsoring agency.
Content DisclaimerThe
opinions and positions expressed in the content in ERIC are those of the
authors and do not necessarily represent the opinions and positions of the
Institute of Education Sciences or the U.S. Department of Education or an
endorsement of the U. S. Government. ERIC is a historical repository and the
collection includes materials that date back more than a century along with current
research. The works in ERIC should be viewed within the context of the era in
which they were written and used according to the specific needs of the
researcher. ERIC does not flag, censure, or remove content from the collection
for outdated language or the research
contained therein.
Links Disclaimer
The ERIC website includes links or pointers to
other sites. Once another site is accessed through a link on the ERIC website,
the copyright and licensing restrictions of the new site apply. ERIC cannot
authorize the use of copyrighted materials contained in linked websites. Links
to external websites are
provided as a convenience to our users and
they do not constitute an endorsement by the Institute of Education
Sciences of any of the products, services, or
opinions found on the sites. IES
bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality, or
content of the external site. Note that external sites
may not abide by the same privacy provisions as those described in
the ERIC Privacy
Policy.
Privacy | Copyright | Contact Us | Selection Policy | API | MetricsJournals | Non-Journals | Download | Submit | Multimedia | Widget