ERIC Multimedia - Home
NotesFAQContact Us
Collection
Thesaurus
AdvancedSearch Tips
Peer reviewed only
Full text available on ERIC
Collection
Thesaurus
BrowseThesaurus
Include Synonyms
Include Dead terms
Multimedia HomeERIC BasicsSearching ERICThesaurusCollectionGrantee and Online SubmissionMultimedia Archive
ERIC Videos, Infographics and Webinars
Featured ItemsGuide to the ERIC Metrics Reporting Portal
This infographic highlights features of the online portal and shows how to access metrics for views and downloads of ERIC content.
ERIC Guide to Abstract Writing
With so many materials in ERIC to choose from, readers rely on well-written abstracts that clearly summarize the work. This guide offers best practices to improve your abstracts and illustrates the 5 elements to include: Purpose, Methods, Results, Implications, and Additional Materials.
60 Years of ERIC: 1964-2024, and Onwards
For 60 years ERIC has been the U.S. Department of Education's trusted library of education research and other resources. Follow the development of ERIC from microfiche to the internet in this video.
ERIC provides videos, infographics, and recorded webinars to help researchers, students, educators and others learn about ERIC and use the tools available on the ERIC website at eric.ed.gov. These materials are free and users may link to them without permission in LibGuides, websites, and other resources that support education research and practice.
ERIC Widget
Downloadable widget available for use in a LibGuide or other electronic resource.
ERIC Basics
Background information about ERIC, including who uses and contributes content to ERIC, how materials are added to the digital library, recent usage and content statistics, and other general information.
Searching ERIC
Tips and best practices for searching ERIC to find targeted research, including a search tutorial and guidance on using ERIC website tools and links to information on the IES website.
Thesaurus
Background information on the ERIC Thesaurus and guidance on how to find and use descriptors to help narrow your ERIC search.
Collection
Information about the ERIC collection and how ERIC selects new sources.
Grantee and Online Submission
Guidelines for users of the ERIC Online Submission System and information about the IES Public Access Policy for IES grantees and contractors.
Multimedia Archive
Webinars and other resources produced in previous years covering information that has lessened in relevance.
Privacy | Copyright | Contact Us | Selection Policy | API | MetricsJournals | Non-Journals | Download | Submit | Multimedia | Widget