ERIC - News and Notes
NotesFAQContact Us
Collection
Thesaurus
AdvancedSearch Tips
Peer reviewed only
Full text available on ERIC
Collection
Thesaurus
BrowseThesaurus
Include Synonyms
Include Dead terms
Request for feedback on changes to ERIC Selection Policy
ERIC has released a draft revised selection policy, the document
that guides the selection of sources and the types of materials cataloged by
ERIC. The goal of the update is to ensure the policy is transparent, reflects
current practices, and allows for innovation by publishing in new formats with
increased metadata. ERIC is seeking feedback from the community on the proposed
changes. Stakeholders can access the draft
policy and watch a recorded
webinar explaining changes.
ERIC proposes four major updates to the policy:
(1) Enhancements to support compliance with new federal public
access policies: ERIC will start displaying the full text of ED-funded work
as website text immediately after an article is first made public. This will
enable the public to get the full text over a year sooner than the current
policy and in a machine-readable format that will allow for bulk downloading
and analysis.
(2) A process to periodically re-review all sources: ERIC will now
re-review all new sources 3 years after initial acceptance in ERIC. After this
initial re-review, all sources will be re-reviewed every 5 years to ensure the
content continues to meet ERIC’s standards.
(3) A re-prioritization of international content: In the
past 5 years, ERIC has found more high-quality content that meets ERIC’s
standards than ERIC can afford to index. Going forward, we are going to shift
our prioritization to focus on the needs of our core stakeholders-- educators, parents, policymakers, researchers, and the
public across the United States. This means that we will be rethinking how
we prioritize international content.
(4) Changes to the types of materials eligible for online
submission: Under the new online submission process, ERIC will no longer
accept published journal articles from individuals who are not US federal awardees.
We welcome your feedback! Please submit all questions and comments
to ERICRequests@ed.gov by March 11, 2024.
Privacy | Copyright | Contact Us | Selection Policy | API | MetricsJournals | Non-Journals | Download | Submit | Multimedia | Widget