A Better Way to Tune the JVM in Dockerfiles and Kubernetes Manifests - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
Add reaction
Like
Unicorn
Exploding Head
Raised Hands
Fire
Jump to Comments
Save
Boost
More...
Moderate
Copy link
Copy link
Copied to Clipboard
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Facebook
Share to Mastodon
Report Abuse
Bruno Borges
Posted on Sep 12
A Better Way to Tune the JVM in Dockerfiles and Kubernetes Manifests
#kubernetes
#java
#docker
#performance
When tuning the JVM inside containers, I often see Dockerfiles and Kubernetes manifests with long, hard-to-read java commands packed with -Xmx, -XX:+UseG1GC, and other flags. Every time you want to tweak memory or GC settings, you have to edit those commands and rebuild or redeploy.
What about JAVA_OPTS?
This flag is not read by the JVM itself. It only works if the launch script explicitly uses it and expands its content into the call to the java launcher. It behaves exactly the same as Apache Tomcat's CATALINA_OPTS, which is read by catalina.sh.
There’s a much cleaner way to do this... and it’s built into the JDK. It’s the most modern, well-scoped solution, playing well with deployment orchestration solutions like Kubernetes.
🚀 Enter JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS
JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS is an environment variable that the JVM reads automatically. Whatever you put there gets appended to the command line of every JDK tool (java, javac, jshell, etc.) This means you can move all your tuning flags out of your launcher command, keeping your Dockerfiles and manifests clean and maintainable.
Cleaned-up Dockerfile
Before (messy):
CMD ["java", "-Xmx512m", "-XX:+UseG1GC", "-jar", "app.jar"]
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
After (clean):
ENV JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS="-Xmx512m -XX:+UseG1GC"
CMD ["java", "-jar", "app.jar"]
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
Now, if you need to change heap size or GC settings, you just update the environment variable. No need to touch the command.
Kubernetes Example
If your container is likely to end up on Kubernetes, don't even tune the JVM in the Dockerfile. Consider leaving this as an external configuration, coming from the Kubernetes manifest.
This is because the container image doesn't know what memory limits will be applied during runtime. And even if you set a MaxRAMPercentage for the heap, the amount you set may not be ideal if the container ends up with too much memory, potentially wasting memory from the delta not used, for example.
containers:
- name: myapp
image: myapp:latest
env:
- name: JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS
value: "-Xmx512m -XX:+UseG1GC"
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
Your deployment YAML stays clean and your operations team can tune JVM behavior at deploy time without changing the image.
Why JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS Is Better
✅ Cleaner Manifests – fewer arguments to maintain
🔄 Configurable at Runtime – no rebuild required
🛠 Debug-Friendly – JVM prints the options it picked up
🐳 Perfect for Containers – works across Docker, Kubernetes, ECS, etc.
🎯 Applies to All JDK Tools – not just java, but also javac, jshell, etc.
If you’re running Java apps in Docker or Kubernetes, stop hardcoding JVM flags into your command line. Use JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS instead. It makes your images cleaner, your manifests easier to read, and your JVM tuning more flexible.
What JVM tuning tricks are you using in containers today?
Have you tried JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS yet?
Did you know about it?
Comment below.
Top comments (0)
Subscribe
Personal
Trusted User
Create template
Templates let you quickly answer FAQs or store snippets for re-use.
Submit
Preview
Dismiss
Code of Conduct
•
Report abuse
Are you sure you want to hide this comment? It will become hidden in your post, but will still be visible via the comment's permalink.
Hide child comments as well
Confirm
For further actions, you may consider blocking this person and/or reporting abuse
Bruno Borges
Follow
Bruno is part of the Developer Relations team at Microsoft and a long-time Java community member.
Location
Vancouver, Canada
Joined
Dec 5, 2017
More from Bruno Borges
Announcing Azure Command Launcher for Java
#azure
#java
#openjdk
#cloud
Java 15 in 2020: Reasons to *not* use Java?
#healthydebate
#java
#javascript
#go
Java Ecosystem: Growing or Shrinking?
#discuss
#healthydebate
#java
#programming
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
DEV++
Reading List
Podcasts
Videos
Tags
DEV Education Tracks
DEV Challenges
DEV Help
Advertise on DEV
DEV Showcase
About
Contact
Free Postgres Database
Software comparisons
Forem Shop
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account