ubuntu - Can't access Tomcat Manager with tomcat/tomcat credentials despite correct tomcat-users.xml configuration - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Can't access Tomcat Manager with tomcat/tomcat credentials despite correct tomcat-users.xml configuration
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
16 times
1
I have this file: /opt/tomcat/conf/tomcat-users.xml:
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tomcat-users xmlns="http://tomcat.apache.org/xml"
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://tomcat.apache.org/xml tomcat-users.xsd"
version="1.0">
<role rolename="manager-gui"/>
<role rolename="manager-script"/>
<role rolename="admin-gui"/>
<user username="admin" password="admin123" roles="manager-gui,manager-script,admin-gui"/>
</tomcat-users>
I enter to http://localhost:8080/manager/html
but I have this error with tomcat/tomcat:
401 Unauthorized
You are not authorized to view this page. If you have not changed any configuration files, please examine the file conf/tomcat-users.xml in your installation. That file must contain the credentials to let you use this webapp.
For example, to add the manager-gui role to a user named tomcat with a password of s3cret, add the following to the config file listed above.
<role rolename="manager-gui"/>
<user username="tomcat" password="s3cret" roles="manager-gui"/>
Note that for Tomcat 7 onwards, the roles required to use the manager application were changed from the single manager role to the following four roles. You will need to assign the role(s) required for the functionality you wish to access.
manager-gui - allows access to the HTML GUI and the status pages
manager-script - allows access to the text interface and the status pages
manager-jmx - allows access to the JMX proxy and the status pages
manager-status - allows access to the status pages only
The HTML interface is protected against CSRF but the text and JMX interfaces are not. To maintain the CSRF protection:
Users with the manager-gui role should not be granted either the manager-script or manager-jmx roles.
If the text or jmx interfaces are accessed through a browser (e.g. for testing since these interfaces are intended for tools not humans) then the browser must be closed afterwards to terminate the session.
For more information - please see the Manager App How-To.
ubuntutomcattomcat9
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 1 hour ago
Nunyet CalçadaNunyet Calçada
1,5385757 gold badges204204 silver badges333333 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
5
I can't access Tomcat 7 manager when Tomcat is running through IntelliJ Idea Ultimate 12
141
Access Tomcat Manager App from different host
0
tomcat manager local getting error
Related questions
5
I can't access Tomcat 7 manager when Tomcat is running through IntelliJ Idea Ultimate 12
141
Access Tomcat Manager App from different host
0
tomcat manager local getting error
70
403 Access Denied on Tomcat 8 Manager App without prompting for user/password
0
tomcat sign in tomcat start page
12
Purpose of roles tags in tomcat-users.xml?
1
Jenkins WAR deployment
1
Can't get to Tomcat Manager
6
Can't access Tomcat 6 Manager app
0
Unable to access Manager app on Tomcat 7.0.39
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
ubuntutomcattomcat9
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Hot Network Questions
Examples of mathematically interesting numbers that can be expressed as an integer tetration (besides Graham’s number)
At which point was Ars Magica turned to its own thing as opposed to being how magick worked in the past?
Connect two voltages to one capacitor
How can one identify certain modules under an isomorphism of algebras?
Why do Aave transactions on Etherscan show misleading transfer amounts for aTokens?
How to prove that identical Pauli commutation relations guarantee the existence of a conjugating unitary?
Apache httpd keeps rewriting VirtualHost on separate port to use HTTPS instead of HTTP
"Fine knacks for ladies" by John Dowland
Here, "supports" appears in the plural. Why is there this difference in usage? ("Analysis on Manifolds" by James R. Munkres.)
Is a massive solar farm around the runway a big risk for takeoff and landing?
Why does truth seem to lack compelling power? Why can we rarely convince anyone to change their mind?
Why does Isaiah 53 use a mix of Past Tense and Present Tense?
Is this efflorescence on my new build tile floor, and how can I clean it off?
How can one deal with the case of someone misrepresenting his academic job title?
Looking for a dystopian sci-fi where a rich family take a trip into the wastelands and the son gets separated
How does the NSDT program end?
The murderer's motives in Agatha Christie's Sad Cypress
When will be the next version of ConTeXt if any? Why?
Examples of representations of finite groups with conditions on the tensor square
How do I replicate the shrink-wrap and lattice modifier for instances realized from a procedural geometry node script on to a curvy surface object?
Which video game had the first "summon supporter" mechanic? (Summoning a "sub character" to fight)
RadioCall at non-towered airport or practice area
Constant anagram in PI
2008 Toyota Tacoma
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943