DEV Education Tracks - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Security Forem
Follow
Your central hub for all things security. From ethical hacking and CTFs to GRC and career development, for beginners and pros alike
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
DEV Education Tracks
Learning Tracks Available Now 🎓
Build Apps with Google AI Studio
Learn to turn text prompts into fully functional web applications using Google AI Studio
Active
Beginner
What are DEV Education Tracks? 🧠
DEV Education Tracks are curated learning experiences that combine expert education content with optional hands-on practice. Whether you're completely new to a topic or looking to deepen your understanding, these tutorials are designed to give you a solid foundation and inspire you to start building.
How It Works 📚
Learn from Experts: Access high-quality tutorials created by industry leaders from companies like Google AI
Build & Practice: Apply your knowledge through hands-on assignments and real-world projects
Earn Recognition: Share your work and earn exclusive DEV badges to showcase your achievements
Create the Official Learning Experience
Partner with DEV to create the definitive learning track for your tool, API, or platform. Work with our team to build hands-on tutorials that advance the skills of the entire developer ecosystem and showcase your technology to our engaged community.
Get in Touch
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
DEV++
Podcasts
Videos
Tags
DEV Education Tracks
DEV Challenges
DEV Help
Advertise on DEV
DEV Showcase
About
Contact
Free Postgres Database
Software comparisons
Forem Shop
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account