DIGITAL TERMS OF SALE
FORBES DIGITAL MEMBERSHIPS & PREMIUM COMMUNITIES – SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT
EFFECTIVE DATE: March 24, 2025
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN AND READ THIS SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT BEFORE USING THE SERVICE. This
Agreement is also subject to, and incorporates by reference, our Terms of Service (including its
mandatory arbitration clause, jury waiver, and class action waiver), our Privacy Statement, and any Purchase Order we
issue
to you in connection with your subscription. We may update this Agreement, our Terms of Service or Privacy
Statement at any time without any prior notice, except as required by law. By using the Service, you agree to
resolve all disputes
through the dispute resolution and binding individual arbitration process set out in our Terms of Service, which
means that you waive any right to have those disputes
decided by a judge or jury, and that you waive your right to participate in class actions, class
arbitrations, or representative actions.
If you do not agree with the terms of this Agreement (including the Dispute Resolution section in the
Terms of Service), your sole remedy is
to cancel your subscription and stop using the Service, as
described in further detail below. By continuing to use the Service, including your subscription, you agree to
and accept the terms of this Agreement.
YOU MAY NOT ORDER OR SUBSCRIBE TO THE SERVICE IF YOU ARE NOT AT LEAST 18 YEARS OF AGE OR OF LEGAL AGE TO FORM A
BINDING CONTRACT WITH US.
This Subscription Agreement (this “Agreement”) governs your use of all digital
products and services (the “Service”) provided by Forbes Media LLC and its affiliates and subsidiaries (“we”,
“us”, “our”), including, without limitation, digital memberships to forbes.com and memberships to premium Forbes
communities. If such Service has its own unique terms, such terms shall supplement this Agreement.
As an individual subscriber, your subscription will provide access to the Service
starting on the date specified therein.
By subscribing to your preferred subscription tier via the purchase confirmation
link, you represent and warrant that you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement for the Service. If
you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement, you should not purchase a subscription.
In the event that you have a bundled subscription that combines our print magazine with our digital membership
to forbes.com, the Print Subscription Terms will also apply to the
extent applicable.
However, notwithstanding the Print Subscription Terms, subscriptions to our print
magazine
purchased in connection with a
bundle will not be eligible for any refund if you cancel the print subscription(s).
If you purchase our digital membership to forbes.com or a premium membership in a bundle that includes tickets
and/or admission to one or more of our virtual or live events (e.g., our Under 30 Summit), the applicable
event’s terms and conditions will apply to the portion of the bundle pertaining to that event.
1. Your Account
If you access a Service using a password, you are solely responsible for
maintaining the confidentiality of that password. You agree to notify us promptly if you change your billing and
delivery addresses and email address so we can continue to contact you and send any notices required hereunder.
If you fail to notify us promptly of a change, then any notice we send to your old address shall be deemed
sufficient notice.
Only one individual may access a Service at the same time using the same username or password, unless
we agree otherwise. Each user must have their own username and password, or if other log-in
credentials are made available, their own unique log-in credential, which shall not be shared.
2. Fees and Payments, Auto-Renewal and Free Trials
In order to subscribe to the Service, you must create an account and provide a
current, valid, accepted method of payment, such as a credit card, and you are responsible for keeping your
method of payment
up to date. We will bill the monthly, quarterly, annual,
or biennial subscription fee to your chosen method of payment. If you sign up for a subscription on an
automatically renewing basis, as indicated when you sign up, your payment will automatically renew at the end of
each subscription period, unless you cancel your subscription before the end of the current subscription period.
Please note that if you pay for your subscription through an account with a third party (e.g., Apple iTunes or
GooglePlay), you may have to cancel through that third party.
In the event that your payment details change or are about to expire, Forbes may obtain or receive from
your payment provider updated payment details such as your card number, expiration date, and CVV.
You hereby authorize us to continue to charge your card for your requested Service using this updated
information. Should your payment fail for any reason (e.g., if your payment method is rejected), you
agree that Forbes or its payment processor may retry billing your payment method to the extent
permitted by applicable law and card network rules. For clarity, Forbes reserves the right to suspend or
terminate your access to the Service if an attempt to charge your method of payment fails.
For all subscriptions and renewals to the Service made before April 15, 2024: ALL
AMOUNTS PAID ARE NON-REFUNDABLE EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SECTION 3 BELOW FOR ANNUAL AND BIENNIAL FORBES.COM
MEMBERSHIPS, WHICH MEANS THAT ALTHOUGH YOU CAN CANCEL YOUR SUBSCRIPTION AT ANY TIME (IF
APPLICABLE), YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE A PRO-RATA RETURN OF ANY FEES THAT YOU HAVE ALREADY PAID. You will continue to
have access to content until the end of your current subscription period, and the cancellation will take effect
the day after the last day of your current subscription period. However, if you request a refund for a
refund-eligible subscription after you cancel, your subscription period and access to the content will end when
you receive the refund.
For all subscriptions and renewals to the Service made on or after April 15, 2024:
ALL AMOUNTS PAID ARE NON-REFUNDABLE, WHICH MEANS THAT ALTHOUGH YOU CAN CANCEL YOUR SUBSCRIPTION AT ANY TIME, YOU
WILL NOT RECEIVE A PRO-RATA RETURN OF ANY FEES THAT YOU HAVE ALREADY PAID. You will continue to have access to
content until the end of your current subscription period, and the cancellation will take effect the day after
the last day of your current subscription period.
We may change the price for subscriptions, from time to time and, if we do,
subscribers will receive notice from us of any price increase prior to such increases taking effect. Price
changes for subscriptions will take effect at the start of the next subscription period following the date of
the price change. As permitted by local law, you accept the new price by continuing to use the Service after the
price change takes effect. If you do not agree with the price changes, you may unsubscribe from the Service
prior to the price change going into effect.
In certain situations, we may offer free trial subscriptions to new subscribers.
Please note that any free trial subscription will last for a limited time. At the end of the free trial period,
unless you cancel the subscription prior to the end of the trial, you will automatically be charged at the price
offered to you during sign-up using the payment method provided. You will continue to be charged the price
offered to you at sign-up on a monthly, quarterly, annual, or biennial basis (based on the plan you selected)
until you cancel per the method described herein. We reserve the right to determine free subscription
eligibility in our absolute discretion.
3. Cancellation, Renewal, Refunds
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect while you use the Service and
your subscription will renew automatically until it is canceled in accordance with this Section. For annual and
biennial subscriptions, we will notify you of the pending renewal of your subscription at least 15 to 30 days
prior to
the date your subscription renews, if applicable, except as otherwise required by law. Annual and biennial
subscribers of forbes.com memberships who purchased or renewed their subscription prior to April 15, 2024, and
who then cancel mid-subscription term are entitled to request a refund based on the number of days remaining
from the requested cancellation date to the end of the subscription term. To request a refund for a
refund-eligible subscription, contact help@forbes.com or 1-888-303-0108.
Annual and biennial subscribers of
forbes.com memberships who purchased or renewed their subscription on or after April 15, 2024, are not entitled
to any refund.
For all automatically renewing subscriptions, you must cancel your subscription
before it renews in order to avoid billing of subscription fees for the renewal term. If you do not sign up for
an automatically renewing subscription, or do not otherwise extend your subscription period, your subscription
will terminate on the date listed on your Purchase Order or otherwise set forth when you signed up.
You may cancel an
automatically renewing subscription prior to its renewal within the Subscription section of the Account page
within your Forbes account. You
may also cancel by contacting us
at 1-888-303-0108 or unlimitedaccess@forbes.com.
4. Availability of Service through other Platforms; Third Party Payment Services
If you access a Service through a mobile application or other type of third party
platform, the applicable End User License Agreement for the mobile service through which you downloaded the
mobile application may apply in addition to the terms of this Agreement and you agree that you are subject to
such application or platforms terms in addition to this Agreement.
From time to time, we may use a third party not affiliated with us to process
payments for a Service (a “Third Party Processor”). You agree that this Third Party Processor is solely
responsible for controlling, handling, processing, or fulfilling purchases processed through its systems. When
using such Third Party Processor you may be subject to additional terms of use/service and privacy policy(ies)
of the Third Party Processor.
5. Perks and Benefits
Subscribers to Services may be offered certain perks or benefits (collectively,
“Benefits”) from time to
time.
Benefits are subject to change, availability, and other terms and conditions as may be communicated
from time to time. Benefits available to you may depend on your location or the specific Service you
subscribe to. Some Benefits may require additional purchases or expenditures on your behalf if you
want to enjoy a certain Benefit. For illustrative purposes only, if you want to enjoy a Benefit in the form
of a discount on a Forbes event ticket, you will still need to purchase the event ticket, in addition to
being responsible for your own travel and accommodations, and taxes.
Benefits have no cash value and may only be enjoyed by you as the subscriber to the Service. You may
not transfer them to others.
Benefits will expire either when your subscription to the applicable Service expires or terminates, or on
the expiration date stated when the Benefit is offered, whichever occurs first. You hereby acknowledge
and agree that the Benefits do not continue indefinitely. Forbes reserves the right to modify, deny, or
revoke Benefits to Service subscribers that Forbes, in its sole and absolute discretion, believes is acting
contrary to the terms and conditions of this Agreement
If third parties (e.g., companies other than Forbes) offer Benefits in connection with a Forbes Service,
such Benefits may be subject to additional terms and conditions. You understand and agree that Forbes
does not endorse or guarantee third-party Benefits, and that Forbes shall not be a party to or have any
responsibility or liability whatsoever for, arising out of, relating to, or in connection with such third-party
Benefits, including but not limited to, their availability, quality, or accuracy. Engaging, transacting with,
or relying on such third parties is done at your own risk.
6. General
This Agreement contains the final and entire agreement between us regarding your
use of the Services and supersedes all previous and contemporaneous oral or written agreements regarding your
use of the Service. We may discontinue or change the Service, or its availability to you, at any time. We may
change the terms of this Agreement at any time, and we will inform you of material changes by notifying you of
the change in writing or electronically (including without limitation, by email or by posting a notice on the
Service that the terms have been “updated” or similar words). By using the Service after changes are made to
this Agreement you signify that you agree to be bound by such changes. This Agreement is personal to you, which
means that you may not assign your rights or obligations under this Agreement to anyone. No third party is a
beneficiary of this Agreement.
©
Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Statement
Terms and Conditions
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise