aspnetzero - EntityHistory not work for entities of my plugin in ASP.NET Zero - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
EntityHistory not work for entities of my plugin in ASP.NET Zero
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
15 times
0
I am developing some APIs using Web.Host project of ASP.NET Zero as my startup project.
I have created plugin projects same as projects of ASP.NET Zero, like this: My.Plugin.Core, My.Plugin.Core.Shared, My.Plugin.Application, My.Plugin.Application.Shared, My.Plugin.EntityFrameworkCore, ...
All my changes are inside these projects and DLLs will be loaded in ASP.NET Zero as plugins. **It uses its own database and DBContext **and entities are defined in core project.
I want to enable EntityHistory for entities of my plugin. I have enabled EntityHistory globally and added my entity names to EntityHistoryHelper and uncommented related lines but nothing is inserted into AbpEntityChange tables in database of ASP.NET Zero.
Also I tried to add AbpEntityChange tables in my plugin database and added them to my plugin dbcontext, but still it doesnt work.
I think having a separate DbContext from ASP.NET Zero DbContext is making the problem, because changes are in plugin DbContext and AbpEntityChange tables are in ASP.NET Zero DbContext.
aspnetzero
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 3 hours ago
RezaReza
1
New contributor
Reza is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
1
Welcome to Stack Overflow. Please take the tour to learn how Stack Overflow works and read How to Ask on how to improve the quality of your question. Then edit your question to include your source code as a working minimal reproducible example, which can be compiled and tested by others to provide an answer faster. It is unclear what you are asking or what the problem is. Please edit your question to include a more detailed description of the problem you have. You haven't even asked a question.
Progman
–
Progman
2025-09-14 09:08:29 +00:00
Commented
49 mins ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
ASP.NET Zero (ABP) call simple action in controller
1
app is not defined at client in ASP.NET Zero
0
ASP.NET Zero solution for both identityserver and client
Related questions
0
ASP.NET Zero (ABP) call simple action in controller
1
app is not defined at client in ASP.NET Zero
0
ASP.NET Zero solution for both identityserver and client
0
Using Blazor Web App with ASP.NET Zero Framework Instead of Angular or MVC
0
How to fix "The active test run was aborted. Reason: Test host process crashed" when debugging unit tests for ASPNET Zero project
Load 2 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
aspnetzero
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Hot Network Questions
Cryptic Family Reunion: It's Easy to Overlook Us
Could there be a set of vectors that is linearly independent in the usual sense, but becomes linearly dependent if we allow infinite sums?
What is the purpose of this opening in the airplane interior?
Matching style of mesh of 3D surface with style of 3D curves in ParametricPlot3D
TCBListing overlay: testing whether segmentation nodes have been defined
Does the train between Sofia, Bucharest and Varna have Wi-Fi?
For an electric pump rocket engine like the rutherford engine, is it possible to place the main valve upstream of the pump?
Water around foundation inside the home
Why does Isaiah 53 use a mix of Past Tense and Present Tense?
Beetles on a Chessboard
Is it common for caves to have less oxygen? What's there instead?
Anyone know a book about researchers in boats being chased on an alien planet by humanoid aliens?
What are these angled things on the Saab 340 tail?
A joystick seen in the film “Ghosthouse” (1988)
Can this diagonal brace behind my stair landing be removed?
The relation between 穀 and 谷
Examples of representations of finite groups with conditions on the tensor square
Reducing an integral to a Gamma function type
Connect two voltages to one capacitor
How can one identify certain modules under an isomorphism of algebras?
800-W High efficiency bridgeless Power Factor Correction (PFC) reference design
Best bike for ultra steep climbs in the forest? (Mountain)
When will be the next version of ConTeXt if any? Why?
Upper Frequency Limit for Bouncing Off Ionosphere
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943