flutter - How to create a simple photo viewer like iPhone Photos - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to create a simple photo viewer like iPhone Photos [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
51 times
-2
Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.
Edit the question to include desired behavior, a specific problem or error, and the shortest code necessary to reproduce the problem. This will help others answer the question.
Closed 11 hours ago.
Improve this question
I can't get the InteractiveViewer to work as a simple photo viewer the way the iPhone Photos work. Basically, start by showing the image centered and fit to the screen. When I zoom in (via pinching), I should be able to pan the image all the way to the edge of the screen but not go past that. Pretty simple.
I can get the InteractiveViewer to center the image (by wrapping with Center and wrap that with Positioned.fill) and fit it to the screen (with minScale: 1), but when I zoom in and pan, the image always goes past the edge of the screen, so a portion of the background is shown.
Any tips on making this fairly simply task work?
flutter
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 18 hours ago
redcurryredcurry
2,50333 gold badges2626 silver badges4444 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
1
Try this within InteractiveViewer:
boundaryMargin: const EdgeInsets.all(0.0),
In above code, setting boundaryMargin: const EdgeInsets.all(0.0) ensures that there is always at least a 0-pixel gap between the edge of the image and the edge of the InteractiveViewer widget, regardless of how much the user pans.
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered 17 hours ago
rustyrusty
1,09311 gold badge66 silver badges1818 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
flutter
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Related
0
Cant find the right widget combination, if it exists
2
flutter web zoom and pan on mouse hover
1
GestureDetector panning inside of a InteractiveViewer
0
How to detect if offset points that are on a zoomable plane is within a circle
1
How to center the focus on double tap zoom in Flutter's PhotoView?
0
How to Implement Smooth Pinch-to-Zoom Animation similar to Photos application (iphone) in Flutter?
1
How to set the transformationController to zoom and translate to a specific pixel in an image under the InteractiveViewer
0
How do you contain a Interactive Viewer to a box?
Hot Network Questions
Is there a limit to the narrowness of a radio signal?
At which point was Ars Magica turned to its own thing as opposed to being how magick worked in the past?
Liaison after verbs in the third person plural
Cryptic Family Reunion: It's Easy to Overlook Us
Adventure B-movie from the 70s involving three white people in a tribal country and a medallion the tribe uses in rituals
Which video game had the first "summon supporter" mechanic? (Summoning a "sub character" to fight)
Who were the members of Beit Hillel
Does systemd-cryptenroll encryption with a TPM bind decryption to that TPM?
Why does the do-while loop in C-like languages require the curly brackets `{` and `}`? Wouldn't the grammar be perfectly parsable without them?
Lean4 `rfl` causes error "no goals to be solved"
How can referees verify computationally intensive results when HPC resources are required?
Best bike for ultra steep climbs in the forest? (Mountain)
What are these angled things on the Saab 340 tail?
Instantaneous axis of motion
3D plot "hide axis" produces spurious space
Reducing an integral to a Gamma function type
The pattern { Main verb} + not to [infinitive 1] AND (to) [infinitive 2]} | He decided not to go to the beach and (to) swim for an hour
Water around foundation inside the home
A million and one constants
Is it normal for postdoc to write grant proposals for PI, but then is denied the opportunity to work on the projects later on?
TCBListing overlay: testing whether segmentation nodes have been defined
Anyone know a book about researchers in boats being chased on an alien planet by humanoid aliens?
For an electric pump rocket engine like the rutherford engine, is it possible to place the main valve upstream of the pump?
How to derive the Schrodinger equation with potential from Maxwell's equations?
more hot questions
lang-dart
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943