How to bulk load CSV file in mySQL workbench without import wizard? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to bulk load CSV file in mySQL workbench without import wizard?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
26 times
1
I am trying to write a stored procedure to import CSV data from local system to mySQL tables. I do not want to use import wizard as I want SP to create, import and display time taken to import.
However, when I execute this statement:
LOAD DATA INFILE 'path/to/your/file.csv' INTO TABLE your_table_name FIELDS TERMINATED BY ',' ENCLOSED BY '"' LINES TERMINATED BY '\n' IGNORE 1 LINES; -- Use this if your file has a header row
I receive Error Code: 1290. The MySQL server is running with the --secure-file-priv option so it cannot execute this statement.
Things I have tried:
Transfer files to path in secure_file_priv C:\ProgramData\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0\Uploads\
Updated 'secure_file_priv'="" and 'local_infile'=1 in my.ini file at various locations, getting default file location from cmd, but the path is not updated when I check their updated values.
I restart mySQL server each time after making changes but no luck.
Unchecked Safe updates in mySQL preferences
Please let me know any workaround.
mysqlcsvimportmysql-workbenchrestriction
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 9 hours ago
AparnaAparna
1111 bronze badge
New contributor
Aparna is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
2
Yep, these are the possible solutions for this behaviour. If neither worked, then you probably made a mistake in implementing those solutions. Please show the exact load data statement with the file path C:\ProgramData\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0\Uploads\ and what error message you got when you tried it.
Shadow
–
Shadow
2025-09-14 06:38:09 +00:00
Commented
8 hours ago
what does SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'datadir';
produce ?
ticktalk
–
ticktalk
2025-09-14 07:21:01 +00:00
Commented
7 hours ago
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
-2
1. Use LOAD DATA **LOCAL** INFILE
If you want to read from your local machine, not the server’s upload directory, enable local_infile and use the LOCAL keyword:
LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE 'C:/path/to/your/file.csv'
INTO TABLE your_table_name
FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
ENCLOSED BY '"'
LINES TERMINATED BY '\n'
IGNORE 1 LINES;
Make sure local_infile=1 is enabled in both server and client.
In Workbench, go to Edit → Preferences → SQL Editor → Enable LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE. Restart Workbench after enabling.
2. Use the secure_file_priv directory
If you want to stick with LOAD DATA INFILE (no LOCAL), you must place the file inside the directory allowed by secure_file_priv.
Check it with:
SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'secure_file_priv';
Copy your CSV there, then:
LOAD DATA INFILE 'C:/ProgramData/MySQL/MySQL Server 8.0/Uploads/file.csv'
INTO TABLE your_table_name
FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
ENCLOSED BY '"'
LINES TERMINATED BY '\n'
IGNORE 1 LINES;
3. If you want this inside a Stored Procedure
Wrap the LOAD DATA in dynamic SQL:
DELIMITER //
CREATE PROCEDURE import_csv()
BEGIN
SET @sql = "
LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE 'C:/path/to/your/file.csv'
INTO TABLE your_table_name
FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
ENCLOSED BY '\"'
LINES TERMINATED BY '\n'
IGNORE 1 LINES
";
PREPARE stmt FROM @sql;
EXECUTE stmt;
DEALLOCATE PREPARE stmt;
END //
DELIMITER ;
Then call:
CALL import_csv();
Recommended: If you’re running Workbench locally, the simplest fix is to enable local_infile and use LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE. That avoids the secure_file_priv restriction entirely.
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered 7 hours ago
TAHSEEN BAIRAGDARTAHSEEN BAIRAGDAR
7433 bronze badges
New contributor
TAHSEEN BAIRAGDAR is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
1
Unfortunately, this answer just rehashes the lot of other general answers to this error. However, it is clear from the OP's post that they have done their research and found the generic answers. They need help to tweak their solutions so that one of those work.
Shadow
–
Shadow
2025-09-14 07:42:04 +00:00
Commented
7 hours ago
Add a comment
|
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
mysqlcsvimportmysql-workbenchrestriction
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Related
568
How should I resolve --secure-file-priv in MySQL?
1457
How can I output MySQL query results in CSV format?
2
secure-file-priv error while importing csv file in sql
809
How to import CSV file data into a PostgreSQL table
0
Cannot import txt file on MySQL Server 8.0, because of secure_file_priv
384
How do I import CSV file into a MySQL table?
3
secure-file-priv Empty set
Hot Network Questions
Why don't people add "coverage" intervals on the p-values they report? (E.g. from bootstrapping the sampling distribution of p-values)
800-W High efficiency bridgeless Power Factor Correction (PFC) reference design
How should one handle a flawed question in a textbook?
Constant anagram in PI
Is there a limit to the narrowness of a radio signal?
Python implementation of core fundamentals to calculate math arithmetic
Is it common for caves to have less oxygen? What's there instead?
Could there be a set of vectors that is linearly independent in the usual sense, but becomes linearly dependent if we allow infinite sums?
Apache httpd keeps rewriting VirtualHost on separate port to use HTTPS instead of HTTP
"Fine knacks for ladies" by John Dowland
How can referees verify computationally intensive results when HPC resources are required?
Applying to a PhD in algebraic number theory as a high-school teacher with uneven undergrad grades
Is this efflorescence on my new build tile floor, and how can I clean it off?
How can I find all simple cycles in a multigraph with edge tags?
Here, "supports" appears in the plural. Why is there this difference in usage? ("Analysis on Manifolds" by James R. Munkres.)
input command is adding a page break with book class
The relation between 穀 and 谷
What would the Romans call a non-religious sacrifice?
Change some file names during a backup with rsync
Why proving the well-definedness for the quotient map is different here?
Which keyboard layout is this?
For an electric pump rocket engine like the rutherford engine, is it possible to place the main valve upstream of the pump?
In the novel Dune, why were atomics banned but shield + lasgun explosions weren't?
Can this diagonal brace behind my stair landing be removed?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-sql
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943