How to create an Oracle Autonomous Database@Google Cloud - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
Add reaction
Like
Unicorn
Exploding Head
Raised Hands
Fire
Jump to Comments
Save
Boost
More...
Moderate
Copy link
Copy link
Copied to Clipboard
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Facebook
Share to Mastodon
Report Abuse
Faris Durrani
Posted on Sep 11
How to create an Oracle Autonomous Database@Google Cloud
#oracle
#cloud
#database
#gcp
Steps to provision a simple Oracle Autonomous Database@Google Cloud using a public offer
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) recently released a joint offering--a provisioning of an Oracle Cloud Database infrastructure (Autonomous Database and Exadata Infrastructure) in Google Cloud while leveraging OCI's database services and features. In this tutorial, we follow a limited deployment of an Oracle Autonomous Database (ADB) in GCP through a public marketplace offering, also known as Pay As You Go.
1. Have a Google Cloud account
Be an editor to the current GCP project with billing rights. See Oracle Docs: Task 1: Prerequisites for Oracle Database@Google Cloud for full permissions.
2. Purchase an Oracle Database offer on GCP
In GCP > Marketplace, search for Oracle Database@Google Cloud. Click on it, choose the Pay as You Go option, and Subscribe. This process does not cost anything, but since Oracle has to manually approve of the order, the marketplace purchase process will take time.
3. Create a new OCI account through the Oracle Database offer
Once the offer has been successfully processed, GCP's Oracle Database@Google Cloud resource page will show an option to link the GCP project to an OCI tenancy account. Note that since we opted to purchase a public offering, we can only link the project to a new OCI account and not link to an existing one.
Oracle Database@Google Cloud resource page. A banner will show up to connect to an OCI account if you haven't done so already:
4. Create an ODB network
An ODB network in GCP is an virtual network that provides connectivity between Oracle Database@Google Cloud resources in the OCI child site within the GCP data center and your Google Cloud VPC network. It allows the Oracle Virtual Cloud Network (VCN) used to host the Oracle Databases to map back to the Google Cloud VPC. You will not find the ODB network listed in Google Cloud VPCs.
In GCP's Oracle Database@Google Cloud resource page, go to ODB network on the left menu and create an ODB network.
While you can use the default network, I chose to optionally opt to use my own VPC equipped with automatically-created subnets:
5. Create the client and backup ODB network subnets
After creating the ODB network, create the backup and client subnets for the database. An Autonomous Database needs a minimum of /27 CIDR size. See Oracle Docs: Plan for IP Address Space in Oracle Database@Google Cloud for more IP Address Space considerations.
Here, I simply opted to use 10.0.1.0/24 and 10.0.2.0/24 for the client and backup subnets respectively. Again, provisioning will take time.
6. Create Autonomous Database
Hooray! You're near the end! 🎉
Go to the Autonomous Database menu selection and begin Create.
Fill out the details for the Autonomous Database. Note that only select regions are supported. See Oracle Docs: Regional Availability for Oracle Database@Google Cloud for supported regions.
I also make sure to include my personal IP so I can connect publicly to this POC database to prove it's working. Require mutual TLS is also nice to enable.
7. Verify database connection
Once done creating the database, you should be able to select that database and manage it in OCI by clicking on the Manage in OCI button.
Once clicked, you will log into your new OCI account and see the ADB details. Let us try to connect to it by clicking on the Database connection button and download the wallet.
Download connection wallet:
We will attempt to publicly connect to the ADB using Oracle SQL Developer.
Input your password for admin that you put during the creation process in GCP
Choose Cloud Wallet as your Connection Type
Choose the downloaded wallet as your Configuration File
Important: Select one of the public connection type services instead of the default private high type
Click Test and Connect.
Verify any SQL commands:
Next steps: RBAC IAM permissions
To maintain a strict user access management, we need groups and policy permissions. OCI automatically created some groups and policies to help you manage access to the database resources upon provisioning of the new tenancy. Assign users appropriately to the groups. See below for groups created:
These groups--except for some like odbaa-db-family-readers, odbg-exa-infra-readers for unclear reasons--align with the groups described here: Oracle Docs: Task 5: Set Up Role Based Access Control.
Closing
Now, obviously this tutorial is meant to give a high-level overview to a limited database service with easy permission levels. Feel free to look over the resources to learn more. Make sure to stop the ADB in GCP if you're not using it to save costs.
Resources
Oracle Docs: Getting Started with Autonomous Database@Google Cloud
Google Cloud Docs: Set up Oracle Database@Google Cloud environment
Oracle University: Oracle Database@Google Cloud - Onboarding video
Oracle Blogs: How to get started with Oracle Autonomous Database on Oracle Database@Google Cloud
Safe harbor statement
The information provided on this channel/article/story is solely intended for informational purposes and cannot be used as a part of any contractual agreement. The content does not guarantee the delivery of any material, code, or functionality, and should not be the sole basis for making purchasing decisions. The postings on this site are my own and do not necessarily reflect the views or work of Oracle or Mythics, LLC.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
Top comments (0)
Subscribe
Personal
Trusted User
Create template
Templates let you quickly answer FAQs or store snippets for re-use.
Submit
Preview
Dismiss
Code of Conduct
•
Report abuse
Are you sure you want to hide this comment? It will become hidden in your post, but will still be visible via the comment's permalink.
Hide child comments as well
Confirm
For further actions, you may consider blocking this person and/or reporting abuse
Faris Durrani
Follow
Software Engineer at Mythics, LLC
Location
Atlanta, GA
Education
Georgia Tech
Pronouns
he/him
Work
Software Engineer at Mythics, LLC
Joined
Nov 4, 2021
More from Faris Durrani
How to write Hello World in Oracle SQL
#oracle
#sql
How to deploy Apache site behind OCI Load Balancer with self-signed certificates and URL
#oracle
#cloud
#ssl
#apache
How to encrypt OCI Bucket using customer-managed-keys
#oracle
#cloud
#encrypt
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
DEV++
Reading List
Podcasts
Videos
Tags
DEV Education Tracks
DEV Challenges
DEV Help
Advertise on DEV
DEV Showcase
About
Contact
Free Postgres Database
Software comparisons
Forem Shop
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account