How to run Cypress UI and API tests under k6 performance measuring control? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to run Cypress UI and API tests under k6 performance measuring control?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
12 times
1
I want to run Cypress tests on a website and measure the performance with k6. Currently I run the Cypress tests on Windows locally and in a GitLab pipeline. I followed these video tutorials (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1mtYVDA2_iQ + https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9yWQ5m8RdH4) to test it in the Grafana Cloud but in the end I want to adapt it to a setup that does not have any connection to the outside.
Aim: All shall run in a GitLab pipeline in our own environment with k6 automatically measuring the Cypress tests, recording the results and storing the artifacts. All running on our own server, no cloud needed, no contact to the outside. I’m lacking information on how to do that.
Currently I am bound to Chrome for Testing 116 because Google Chrome v137 and higher does not allow loading extensions via --load-extension. Integrating k6 into Cypress gives:
“Google Chrome v137 and higher does not allow loading extensions via --load-extension. If you need to load an extension to test with Cypress, please use Chrome for Testing, Chromium, or another Chrome variant that supports loading extensions.”
That’s why I went to Chrome for Testing. We need to test it with recent and future Chrome versions, though, and other browsers as well. So I don’t know yet how to lift that up to recent browser versions.
To achieve that private setup stepwise, this is what I have now:
I’m running Cypress tests from the console in headed mode. K6 is installed locally and configured in cypress.config.js. Chrome for Testing is installed in version: '116.0.5793.0' with Grafana k6 Browser Recorder 1.0.8. I launch the k6 plugin in Chrome for recording locally, no Cloud recording. I start my Cypress session, finish it, finish the recording. After the recording, k6 lists a file with a UUID for download. When I click on it, neither the file nor the parent folder in a Windows Explorer opens. So I cannot access the file to see the result. In the recording history of the k6 browser plugin, there is a Download button that also does not download the file. Regular downloads in the browser from other resources work. I tried with multiple recordings, closed the browser and Cypress session, started new sessions – always the same result. How can I access these files? They are also not automatically downloaded to the set Downloads folder. When I click on the k6 plugin icon again, then it says “No data recorded yet”. Has it really recorded anything?
K6 is installed in a local path. My cypress.config.js has these settings:
const { defineConfig } = require("cypress");
module.exports = defineConfig({
e2e: {
baseUrl: "https://hidden.com",
defaultCommandTimeout: 15000,
setupNodeEvents(on, config) {
on('before:browser:launch', (browser = {}, launchOptions) => {
console.log(launchOptions.args) // print all current args
const k6path = "C:\k6\k6.exe"
if (browser.isHeaded) {
try {
launchOptions.extensions.push(k6path);
} catch (error) {
console.log("extension not available"); //when in headless mode
}
return launchOptions
}
})
},
I also tried other browsers. After disabling Chrome for Testing and reenabling all browsers, I installed the “Grafana k6 Browser Recorder” and “CRX Extractor/Downloader” to Firefox. When I select Firefox in Cypress, Firefox starts but does not show the Cypress Test Manager, just a blank tab.
“Opening E2E Testing in Firefox”. My website to test is not loaded, not even in the URL field. From the extensions that I installed before, none is shown in the Extension area. Only the Cypress extension and for this it says “Cypress – can’t read and change data on this site”. The other extensions that I installed in the session before are not installed anymore.
What is a good or the best way to run Cypress tests a) controlling k6 or b) k6 controlling Cypress tests?
cypressperformance-testingk6gui-testing
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 1 hour ago
DLLDLL
5111 silver badge77 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
4
Cypress tests passes with `cypress open`, but fails with `cypress run`
0
How to run only integration tests in cypress
3
Cant run cypress tests in Chrome & Edge browsers(being manageed by organization)
Related questions
4
Cypress tests passes with `cypress open`, but fails with `cypress run`
0
How to run only integration tests in cypress
3
Cant run cypress tests in Chrome & Edge browsers(being manageed by organization)
4
Cypress Docker: Chrome was not found on your system
1
Unable to run Cypress 9.7.0 tests in Firefox
3
How to run integration / e2e tests for a Chrome extension in 2021?
1
Cypress - can't run tests after upgrading cucumber preprocessor
84
Should I use both Cypress and Jest together?
Load 5 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
cypressperformance-testingk6gui-testing
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Hot Network Questions
Modems are not detected unless Windows is restarted
Here, "supports" appears in the plural. Why is there this difference in usage? ("Analysis on Manifolds" by James R. Munkres.)
Is this efflorescence on my new build tile floor, and how can I clean it off?
Does the train between Sofia, Bucharest and Varna have Wi-Fi?
2008 Toyota Tacoma
How to convert an MP3 CD into a regular (Red Book) audio CD?
"Fine knacks for ladies" by John Dowland
Mirror clipping doesn't join the pieces together
Upper Frequency Limit for Bouncing Off Ionosphere
How to choose between brute force and efficient solution that has overhead?
Which video game had the first "summon supporter" mechanic? (Summoning a "sub character" to fight)
Checking for string isomorphism in C++
What application writes into /var/lib/swcatalog?
Cryptic Family Reunion: It's Easy to Overlook Us
The relation between 穀 and 谷
For an electric pump rocket engine like the rutherford engine, is it possible to place the main valve upstream of the pump?
Rewording statements that contain "we"
Is a massive solar farm around the runway a big risk for takeoff and landing?
A million and one constants
Provide extra constant arguments to a mapped function
PC used in movie "Ghosthouse" (1988)
Confidence interval for difference of probabilities, for paired data
Strategy for promoting a non-US FOSS project in the US?
What was the origin of ++ and --?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943