Hacker News FAQ
Hacker News FAQ
Are there rules about submissions and comments?
https://news.ycombinator.com/newsguidelines.html
How are stories ranked?
The basic algorithm divides points by a power of the time since a
story was submitted. Comments in threads are ranked the same way.
Other factors affecting rank include user flags, anti-abuse software,
software which demotes overheated discussions, account or site weighting,
and moderator action.
How is a user's karma calculated?
Roughly, the number of upvotes on their posts minus the
number of downvotes. These don't match up exactly. Some votes are
dropped by anti-abuse software.
Do posts by users with more karma rank higher?
No.
Why don't I see down arrows?
There are no down arrows on stories. They appear on comments after
users reach a certain karma threshold, but never on direct replies.
What kind of formatting can you use in comments?
http://news.ycombinator.com/formatdoc
How do I submit a question?
Use the submit link in the top bar, and leave the url field blank.
How do I submit a poll?
http://news.ycombinator.com/newpoll
How do I make a link in a text submission?
You can't. This is to prevent people from submitting a link
with their comments in a privileged position at the top of the
page. If you want to submit a link with comments, just submit
the link, then add a regular comment.
What are Ask HN and Show HN?
Ask HN lists questions and other text submissions.
Show HN is for sharing your personal work and has
special rules.
Why hasn't my submission appeared on Ask HN or Show HN?
All Ask HNs appear on newest and asknew, and all Show HNs on newest and shownew, but there
is a small points threshold before a post makes it to ask or show.
What do green usernames mean?
Green indicates a new account.
Why are some comments faded?
Faded text means that a comment has been downvoted. You can read the comment
in normal text by clicking on its timestamp to go to its page.
What does [flagged] mean?
Users flagged the post as breaking the guidelines
or otherwise not belonging on HN.
Moderators sometimes also add [flagged] (though not usually on
submissions), and sometimes turn flags off when they are unfair.
How do I flag a comment?
Click on its timestamp to go to its page, then click the 'flag' link
at the top. There's a small karma threshold before flag links appear.
What does [dead] mean?
The post was killed by software, user flags, or moderators.
Dead posts aren't displayed by default, but you can see them all
by turning on 'showdead' in your profile.
If you see a [dead] post that shouldn't be dead, you can vouch for it.
Click on its timestamp to go to its page, then click 'vouch' at the
top. When enough users do this, the post is restored. There's a small
karma threshold before vouch links appear.
What does [deleted] mean?
The author deleted the post, or asked us to. Unlike dead posts, these remain deleted even when showdead
is turned on.
What do 'hide' links do?
They remove a submission from your personal view. Others still see it.
Are reposts ok?
If a story has not had significant attention in the last year or so,
a small number of reposts is ok. Otherwise we bury reposts as duplicates.
Please don't delete and repost the same story. Deletion is for things
that shouldn't have been submitted in the first place.
Are paywalls ok?
It's ok to post stories from sites with paywalls that have workarounds.
In comments, it's ok to ask how to read an article and to help other
users do so. But please don't post complaints about paywalls. Those
are off topic. More here.
Can I ask people to upvote my submission?
No. Users should vote for a story because they personally find it
intellectually interesting, not because someone has content to
promote. We penalize or ban submissions, accounts, and sites that
break this rule, so please don't.
Can I ask people to comment on my submission?
No, for the same reason. It's also not in your interest: HN
readers are sensitive to this and will detect it, flag it,
and use unkind words like 'spam'.
Can I post a job ad?
Please don't post job ads as submissions to HN.
A regular "Who Is Hiring?" thread appears on the first weekday of each
month (or Jan 2). Most job ads are welcome there. Only an account called
whoishiring is allowed to
submit the thread itself. This prevents a race to post it first.
Another kind of job ad is reserved for YC-funded startups. These
appear on the front page, but are not stories: they have no vote arrows,
points, or comments. They begin part-way down and fall steadily.
Only one is on the front page at a time. The rest are listed
at jobs.
What's the relationship between YC and HN?
Y Combinator owns and funds HN. The
HN team is editorially independent.
HN gives three features to YC:
job ads (see above) and startup launches
get placed on the front page, and YC founder names
are displayed to other YC alumni in orange.
Are negative stories about YC suppressed on HN?
No, we moderate less, not more, when YC or a YC startup is the topic.
The good will of the community is worth more than any story.
Why can't I post a comment to a thread?
Threads are closed to new comments after two weeks, or if the
submission has been killed by software, moderators, or user flags.
Why is A ranked below B even though A has more points
and is newer?
You can't derive rank from votes and time alone. See "How are stories ranked?" above.
In my profile, what is delay?
It gives you time to edit your comments before they appear to others.
Set it to the number of minutes you'd like. The maximum is 10.
In my profile, what is noprocrast?
It's a way to help you prevent yourself from spending too much time on
HN. If you turn it on you'll only be allowed to visit the site for
maxvisit minutes at a time, with gaps of minaway minutes in between.
The defaults are 20 and 180, which would let you view the site for 20
minutes at a time, and then not allow you back in for 3 hours.
How do I reset my password?
If you have an email address in your profile, you can do that
here. If
you haven't, email hn@ycombinator.com for help.
Can I change my username?
Yes. Email hn@ycombinator.com and we'll help.
Can I delete my account?
We try not to delete entire account histories because that would gut
the threads the account had participated in. However, we care about
protecting individual users and take care of privacy requests every
day, so if we can help, please email hn@ycombinator.com. We don't want
anyone to get in trouble from anything they posted to HN. More here.
My IP address seems to be banned. How can I unban it?
If you request many pages quickly, your IP address might get
banned.
This self-serve
unbanning procedure works most of the time. If not, email hn@ycombinator.com.