BBC Studios Privacy PolicySkip to contentBritish Broadcasting CorporationHomeNewsSportBusinessInnovationCultureArtsTravelEarthAudioVideoLiveHomeNewsIsrael-Gaza WarWar in UkraineUS & CanadaUKUK PoliticsEnglandN. IrelandN. Ireland PoliticsScotlandScotland PoliticsWalesWales PoliticsAfricaAsiaChinaIndiaAustraliaEuropeLatin AmericaMiddle EastIn PicturesBBC InDepthBBC VerifySportBusinessExecutive LoungeTechnology of BusinessFuture of BusinessInnovationTechnologyScience & HealthArtificial IntelligenceAI v the MindCultureFilm & TVMusicArt & DesignStyleBooksEntertainment NewsArtsArts in MotionTravelDestinationsAfricaAntarcticaAsiaAustralia and PacificCaribbean & BermudaCentral AmericaEuropeMiddle EastNorth AmericaSouth AmericaWorld’s TableCulture & ExperiencesAdventuresThe SpeciaListTo the Ends of The Earth EarthNatural WondersWeather & ScienceClimate SolutionsSustainable BusinessGreen LivingAudioPodcast CategoriesRadioAudio FAQsVideoLiveLive NewsLive SportHomeNewsSportBusinessInnovationCultureArtsTravelEarthAudioVideoLiveWeatherNewslettersBBC Studios Privacy PolicyPage updated: 19th August 2025Version 1.0This policy describes what personal information (also known as personal data) BBC Studios collects, how we’ll use it, the circumstances in which it may be shared, and your rights in relation to the personal information we hold about you.We may also provide additional notices to provide more information about what we will do with your information. For example, our Cookies Notice explains how we use web technologies such as cookies.If you are a California resident, see here  for our California Notice at Collection and information provided pursuant to the California Consumer Privacy Act.1. WHAT THIS POLICY COVERS2. HOW WE COLLECT INFORMATION ABOUT YOU3. HOW WE USE YOUR INFORMATION4. WHEN WE SHARE YOUR INFORMATION5. WHERE WE STORE YOUR INFORMATION6. HOW LONG WE KEEP YOUR INFORMATION7. HOW WE SECURE YOUR INFORMATION8. CHILDREN USING OUR SERVICES9. YOUR RIGHTS & CHOICES10. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY11. CONTACT US12. ADDITIONAL NOTICES1. WHAT THIS POLICY COVERSBBC Studios is the commercial production and distribution arm of the British Broadcasting Corporation (the ‘BBC’). We are a global business operating as BBC Studios Distribution, BBC Studios Productions, and BBC Global News (and their subsidiaries). Find out more about our group of companies and their locations.This Privacy Policy relates to our global content distribution and marketing activities, including:International version of the BBC website, BBC.com, and app (English-language).Advertising on BBC World Service websites.Portfolio of international BBC channels and on-demand services.Digital services and events for our shows (e.g. topgear.com, bluey.tv, doctorwho.tv, bbcearth.com and bbcshop.com). Industry events, like BBC Showcase.Sale of advertising and sponsorship solutions across the BBC’s international and branded services.What’s not covered in this policy?BBC Public Service: The use of your personal information by the BBC Public Service, which is a publicly funded service in and for the UK and therefore operates differently to BBC Studios which is a commercially funded business. This includes the BBC website in the UK (bbc.co.uk), any UK BBC account (as explained in more detail below), UK public services that are not geo-restricted (such as BBC Bitesize and the BBC programme pages), and the international World Service language sites. It also includes personal information collected when you comment on BBC News and BBC Sport articles or send in your photos and videos to News teams. These are all covered by the BBC Public Service privacy policy, which you can view here.Linked Services: Sometimes we link to other companies’ services, like articles published on other sites. Similarly, you might engage with our content and brands via another platform or company. For example, we publish our content on other platforms, like YouTube, Facebook and other social media, and news aggregators.  These external services will have their own privacy policies which will apply to their collection and use of your personal information.Third-Party Services: We also license our brands and content to other companies who produce their own websites, events, products and digital content. These companies are responsible for any personal information they collect about you in this context. Your personal information is not shared by these companies with BBC Studios unless it is a joint activity or you are otherwise informed that it will be shared. For example, if you have opted in to receive branded newsletters from us, your email address will be shared to enable us to send this to you as you have requested.Contributors: If you are a contributor to one of our programmes, the processing of your information by BBC Studios Productions is covered by its Contributor Privacy Policy, unless expressly indicated otherwise.Employees: Employees, workers and contractors should refer to the BBC People Privacy Notice.Candidates: Candidates and applicants for roles at BBC Studios should refer to the BBC Careers Site Privacy Notice.Back to top2. HOW WE COLLECT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUThe types of information we collect depends on the circumstances and the service you are using. We may collect information relating to you and/or your use of our services in the following ways:A.
Information collected from you directlyWhen you use our services, register for a BBC account (outside the UK), submit comments or other content, attend one of our events or you otherwise interact with us (such as through social media platforms, our apps or engaging with our sales teams, responding to surveys), we will ask you for information relevant to the circumstances. If it isn’t obvious why we are asking for certain information, we will explain this to you at the time we collect it. In section 3, we explain in more detail about the types of information we collect.B.
Information collected automatically during your use of our servicesWhen you use or receive services from us over the internet, we automatically record information about your use of those services, your interaction with our adverts and our emails as well as information about the device you are using and your internet connection. This is done through log data, cookies and similar technologies. See our Cookie Notice for more details.C.
Information we infer about youWe use information we know about you and how you use our services to predict things about you (“Inferred Information”). For example, we use data about what you read, how long you stay on a particular page, how often you visit, when you visit, and the type of device you use. We won’t infer sensitive information about you.D.
Information we collect when you interact with us via a third party (e.g. social media and other platforms)When you choose to participate in or receive a service from us via social media and similar third party platforms, for example by posting comments, interacting with us, signing up to a newsletter or entering a competition, we may collect information from you directly or the social network may share with us personal information about you depending on the privacy notice and any choices you have on that platform.  E.
Information collected via other third partiesWe use specialist companies to provide us with information they hold about you or to collect information on our behalf.  For example:We use market research agencies to provide us with consumer insights to help shape BBC Studios programmes, products and services.We also use data from data brokers such as Experian mosaic data.We also collect information from social media platforms, for example when you engage with us on our social media accounts or mention our brands in your posts, we may collect your social media handles and the content of your posts to or about us.Back to top3. HOW WE USE YOUR INFORMATIONDepending on which of our services you are using, or how you are otherwise interacting with us, we use your information in ways which are consistent with our relationship with you (i.e. as a consumer or in a business context). In this section, we have set out a description of the ways we use your personal information and the types of data this includes. Under UK and European data protection law, we are required to tell you our “lawful basis” for processing your personal data and we have included this in each description. For Canadian residents, please review the additional information at section 12 of this policy, to learn about our consent practices and your rights to withdraw consent, depending on the circumstances.BBC accountsBBC account underpins many of our services, including BBC.com, BBC Shop and TopGear.com. The data we collect when you are signed in with a BBC account is used in a number of different ways. If you are in the UK and have a BBC account, when you sign-in to one of our branded services, BBC Public Service will share your account information with us to support the purposes described below. We use your BBC account to recognise you when signing into our services, including on new devices and applications. Connecting and understanding your usage across our services, allows us to make improvements and recommendations, and offer you a more seamless experience.If you don't have an account, we’ll assign you a unique identifier which (subject to your cookie choices in your territory) will allow us to recognise you on a new device or through a different application. If you later create an account, we will connect this ID to your account ID to enable us to continue to personalise your experience.Incognito mode (or private browsing) is a feature in web browsers that may help you to browse the internet without saving your browsing history, cookies and similar technologies, site data, or information entered in forms. If you are using incognito mode and do not wish to be tracked, you should not sign in to your BBC account as doing so will still enable us to link your activity to you as described above.Purposes for which we will use your informationA.
To provide the products and services requested by you and manage our relationship with youFor example: to register and administer your account and, if you have one, your subscription; to fulfill an order; to invite you and arrange your attendance at an event you have registered for; to deal with your queries, submissions, feedback, requests or complaints; to manage competitions; to ask you to leave a review or take a survey; to send service-related communications, such as notifying you about changes to our terms or privacy policy; and for internal and statutory accounting and reporting.Information we use:NameEmail addressPhone numberDate of birth and/or age (if we need to verify age)Country (which may be declared by you or determined from your IP address)Transaction(s) and/or usage historyCommunication preferencesGenre/content preferencesCommunication historyAnd, when you buy things or sign up for a paid subscription, we also collect:For physical goods (e.g. from BBC Shop): Billing and delivery addressFor subscriptions (e.g. BBC.com in the US): Zip codeOur Lawful Basis:gitimate interests in keeping our records updated, to manage our services effectively, and ensure you have a good experience in using our services, to keep our records updated and to respond to communications you send to us.Performance of a contract with you when you have bought something from us, registered your account, signed up for our events, entered a competition or taken out a subscription.Legal obligation for certain statutory accounting and reporting.B.  To operate and secure our servicesFor example: troubleshooting and testing; system maintenance, reporting, and data hosting; preventing fraud or other potentially illegal activities (including copyright infringement); blocking disruptive users and protecting the safety of users; and enforcing our terms of service.Information we use:Device identifiers (e.g. IP address, user agent, and cookie IDs)Account IDTransaction(s) and/or usage historyLog dataLawful Basis: Our legitimate interests in running our business, provision of administration and IT services, network security, and to prevent fraud.C.
To facilitate conversation, engage with our audiences and enrich our contentWhen you leave a comment on one of our services or share your photos and videos with us, we will collect and process the information you provide, and we may publish or share your content on our services or other platforms. Sometimes you might choose to share content with us via our social media pages or otherwise comment on social media about our brands (i.e. simply to show your love for our brands).  When you do this, we may contact you (via the relevant platform) to ask if we can publish or use your content on our services or other platforms. We may use the information you provide, or your social media handle, to contact you if we want to find out more, to ask if we can use or share your content or to verify your age.Before we can accept or use your content, you must ensure you have the consent of anyone else featured. We may ask you to provide your email address to verify your age and that you are the legal parent or guardian of any children who may be featured in the content, as may be applicable under section 8 of this Privacy Policy (“Children Using Our Services”).If you contribute to the BBC’s editorial output on BBC.com, like BBC News, Sport or Radio (for example, if you comment on an article or send a photo or video to one of the News teams) this will be subject to the BBC Public Service privacy policy and terms, and not ours.Information we use:NameSocial media handle/username and contact detailsThe content you submit, which may feature you and/or othersDate of birth and/or age (e.g. for age verification)Lawful basis:Our legitimate interest in engaging with our audiences and promoting our brands and services.The performance of a contract and relationship between you and us.D.
To send you news, offers and promotionsIn accordance with your preferences, we will send you newsletters you request and relevant offers and promotions relating to our content, brands and services and other companies in the BBC Studios group, like UKTV and Britbox International.These communications may be personalised to you based on what we think may interest you.You may need a BBC account to receive some newsletters and if you don’t have one, we will create one for you as part of the sign-up process.You can unsubscribe from newsletters and marketing emails by clicking on the link in the footer of the relevant email.We may also send notifications via your device or web browser, where you have specifically given permission when requested by your browser or device.Information we use:NameEmail addressAge range and/or birthday (e.g. to send a birthday email)Broad location (e.g. city or country)Profile (e.g. your preferences and interests inferred from your interactions with our services)Transaction(s), usage history and interactions (e.g. what you viewed, when, and how often, whether you opened or clicked an email etc)Communication historyMarketing and communications preferencesLawful Basis:Consent to send you newsletters you are subscribed to.Our legitimate interests to promote our content, brands and services, and those of our partners, and to manage your preferences.E.
To personalise our content and newslettersWe use machine-learning based on aggregated usage data to recommend content we think you may be interested in. Data about your use of our services will be used to train the aggregate models used to create recommendations. We’ll also use an algorithm to decide when to show you prompts to register or subscribe, based on how likely we think you are to do so.To provide a better and more relevant service, we personalise your experience across our services and the emails you receive, in accordance with your cookie preferences. To do this, we rely on the usage data described in the “BBC Accounts” section above.Information we use:BBC account ID or device-level IDContact detailsAge range and/or birthdayAccount registration detailsBroad location – e.g. city or countryDevice identifiers, which may include your device’s IP address, user agent, and cookie IDs (see the Cookies Notice for the service you are using to learn more).Transaction(s), usage history and interactions (e.g. what you viewed, when, and how often, whether you opened or clicked an email etc)Profile (e.g. your preferences and interests inferred from your interactions with our services)Log dataLawful Basis:Our legitimate interests to promote our services and engage our consumers and audiences.Consent for the use of cookies, similar technologies and device identifiers in the UK/EEA.F.
To market our products and services to you on social media and other sitesWe promote our shows and services on social media and other platforms subject to user settings and preferences on those platforms.  Personalised messages and promotions on third party sites and platforms: We use different forms of targeting:(i) Where allowed by law and/or according to your selected preferences, we may use information such as your email address and usage behaviour to show you relevant marketing and promotional posts on social media and other sites such as retail outlets. For example, if you consume a lot of sport content, we might promote a new sports newsletter to you on your social media feed. When we do this, an encryption technique is applied to the data so the other platform can only read the data that it already knows about you to create a match to show you the relevant marketing message. We also use this process to exclude you from marketing campaigns that are not relevant to you. For example, if you already have an account with us, we will use this information to exclude you from promotions about registration.(ii) Sometimes we use IP address and usage information to establish a connection between our data and the data processed by social media platforms like Meta (Facebook and Instagram). This allows us to provide you with more relevant and tailored advertisements in your social media feeds and helps us track and measure how you interact with our advertisements on social media, ensuring that the content you see is more aligned with your interests.(iii) Sometimes we use social media technologies to track users from our services to the third-party platforms subject to your preferences and settings.If you have a BBC account, you can opt out from personalised messages on other sites.General audience segmentation: We may also use the audience segmentation tools of the third party platform to help us find a suitable audience – for example, we may use some information about our existing users to find new audiences on third party platforms. When we do this, we only receive aggregated anonymous reports on the performance of these posts, no personal information is shared with us.Any use of your information by third party platforms will be subject to their Privacy Policy and the preferences you have set for their platform(s).Information we use:For general marketing on social media, we use targeting tools available within the platform, such as to target a particular age band or location. Where we use your data to target particular audiences on third party platforms, we use the following data from your use of our services:Transaction(s), usage history and interactions (e.g. what you viewed, when, and how often, whether you opened or clicked an email etc)Device identifiers, which may include your device’s IP address, user agent, and cookie IDs (see the Cookies Notice for the service you are using to learn more)Profile (e.g. your preferences and interests inferred from your interactions with our services)Hashed email address (transformed into a unique identifier that is used to match our data to those known also by the platform)Lawful Basis:Our legitimate interests to promote our services and engage our consumers and audiences on third-party platforms subject to your marketing preferences and/or BBC Account settings.Consent to receive newsletters and targeted advertising.G. To show advertising to you on our services and understand how effective it isOur digital services feature advertising, including personalised advertising. This means the advertising you see is more relevant to you. It also means we can receive more revenue from our advertisers, allowing us to invest in our content. To create an ad profile for personalisation, unique identifiers (IDs) are used to tell your device apart from others – such as an ID stored by a cookie, or your Mobile Ad ID (a unique code set by your mobile operating system). We also use your BBC account information.  For example, we may display adverts based on your age band or the country you registered in.We sometimes use hashed identifiers created from email or IP addresses to facilitate this matching process. A hashed identifier is one which has been transformed into a unique string of characters using a mathematical process called hashing. This process makes the identifier unreadable and secure, and the original email address cannot be easily retrieved thereby matching data in a more privacy-friendly way. We and our advertising partners use hashed email addresses to match users across different platforms without sharing actual email addresses. This helps to securely deliver personalised ads based on user preferences and behaviour.We will also show you ads relevant to the content you are consuming (contextual advertising). For example, if you are reading an article about travel then we might show you ads for airlines.Our advertising is generally managed in three ways:1. Premium in-house advertisingWe sell premium advertising space on our services directly to our advertising clients. This advertising is managed in-house driven by our own first party data that we collect from you or your device, subject to your privacy settings. This data includes registration information collected when you sign-up for our services (e.g. BBC Account), data based on what you consume on our services (e.g. articles read, adverts clicked on), technical information (e.g. browser, device and Internet Service Provider) and your location (at a country level).  We use this data to create cohorts of users with shared characteristics (age, interests). These cohorts are then used to select relevant ads to show to you.We sometimes enable our clients to use their own customer data to personalise their ads. They may do this by matching data to their known customers or to look for ‘lookalike’ customers based on similar characteristics such as interests.  When we do this, we use specialist technologies to keep data separated and secure, such as hashed identifiers.2.  Automated advertising trading and personalisationWe (and our clients) work with a range of companies to show you ads, both personalised and non-personalised. This includes specialist platforms and networks to:sell our ad space in online auctions, e.g., ‘real-time bidding’select and deliver the ads, andcollate and manage the data needed to personalise ads.Generally, these companies will be acting as separate data controllers or may be acting under the instruction of their advertiser client rather than us.Depending on your browser and cookie settings, we share the following data when ads are requested and delivered on our digital services:IP addressCookie IDs or Mobile Ad IDPage URLDevice manufacturer, model and operating systemBrowser type and version and preferencesAdvertising delivered via our service providers can also include the use of data that has been collated and synced across multiple sites and sources. This may include the advertiser client’s own marketing database, demographics (e.g. from data brokers and credit reference agencies), online cross-site browsing behaviour, social media data, and offline data (e.g. loyalty card and retail transactions). We do this to create “cohorts” of particular types of audiences, i.e., groups of people who share similar characteristics, habits or interests.3. Advertising on third party servicesSometimes we buy ad space on other websites and services to run ads for our advertisers. For example, we might show you an ad before a video on our social media channels. That ad could be personalised in the same way as when you use our services directly.We also run ads in the podcasts we publish on a variety of different platforms, such as Spotify, Audible and Apple Podcasts. Subject to applicable law, we allow third parties such as our service providers and those of our advertiser clients to directly collect aggregated data or other information that is not reasonably linkable to you personally, in order to measure the performance of the ads and the effectiveness of the campaigns. For example, whether you go on to listen to another podcast after hearing an ad for it within a different podcast.Ad personalisation settingsOn all of our services that show personalised ads, you can opt out of the personalisation at any time in a variety of ways:By adjusting your browser settings,By adjusting your cookie settings for the particular website/service you are using
and/orDisable the use of your email address for advertising in your BBC Account settings.If you opt-out or make any changes to your browser settings, you may continue to see non-personalised and contextual ads.  Information we and our advertising partners use:Hashed email address (transformed into a unique identifier that can be used to personalise advertising across the internet)Age range Broad location – e.g. city or countryAdvertising ID (IDs created by us for sharing with advertising platforms to personalise and measure advertising)Device identifiers, which may include your device’s IP address, user agent, and cookie IDs (see the Cookies Notice for the service you are using to learn more).Page URL and referrer URL (i.e. the page that sent you, or referred you, to the page featuring the relevant ad)Usage history and interactions (e.g. the ad shown to you, when it was shown, and whether you clicked on it)Ad Profile (e.g. demographics and interests inferred from your interactions with our services and elsewhere online)Log dataSegmentation data from third parties (e.g. from data brokers and credit reference agencies like Experian)Lawful Basis:Our legitimate interests to generate revenue to help fund services (including supporting the BBC Public Service in the UK) and to promote our brand partners.Consent for the use of cookies and similar technologies in the UK/EEA.H.
To measure how our services perform and are used in order to improve and innovateFor example, analysing your use of our products and services, what kind of services you might use in the future, the effectiveness of our marketing and emails and our customer relationships and experiences. We use specialist measurement and IT service providers to help us to do this. We and the BBC Public Service may also do this to facilitate research and development and support product/content innovation.We use machine learning, large language models and algorithms to derive meaning from our data, to segment our audiences (for example based on demographics and frequency of visits) and to create new products and services. We may use Inferred Information to do this.BBC Public Service tracks usage across BBC.com so it can report on how the BBC serves audiences globally to show it is fulfilling its public purposes, and for editorial purposes. This is subject to the BBC’s own privacy policy.Information we use:Device identifiers, which may include your device’s IP address, user agent, and cookie IDs (see the Cookies Notice for the service you are using to learn more)Page URL and referrer URL (i.e. the page that sent you, or referred you to our service)Transaction(s), usage history and interactions (e.g. what you viewed, when, and how often, whether you opened or clicked an email etc)Demographics, such as gender, age range, interests (e.g. through market research)Log dataLawful Basis:Our legitimate interests in studying how customers use our products and services, to keep our services updated and relevant, to develop our business and to inform our marketing strategy.Consent where your personal information is shared/disclosed directly in response to a research questionnaire/survey.Consent for the use of cookies and similar technologies in the UK/EEA.I.
To conduct market research into our brands and services and to invite you to take partWe may use specialist agencies to carry out market research on our behalf. When we do this, the agencies usually just share information with us which does not identify individuals. If this is not the case (for example because you appear in a video or a name is included alongside a comment), then this would be explained to you before you participate.If we are carrying out our own research, we may directly collect some information from you in order to facilitate the project, e.g., name, contact details and demographic information.We also carry out research relating to actors and public figures and when we do this, we will receive information about public opinion of such people.Information we use:For consumers and audiences: Sometimes a first name and age/location, but generally no identifiable information unless otherwise explained to you at the time you take part.For public figures: name and public opinions and perceptions about them.Lawful Basis: Our legitimate interest to better understand how our brands and on-screen talent are perceived and to engage with our customers and audiences.J.
To measure how people perceive and engage with our brands on social mediaWhen you post about us, our brands or programmes on social media, we may collate and report on this using a specialist platform so that we can better understand public perception of our brands. This is sometimes known as “social listening”.Information we use:Social media username/handlePost contentsLawful Basis:Our legitimate interest to better understand how our brands are perceived and to engage with our customers/audiences.If you choose to include sensitive information then we rely on the fact that this has been manifestly made public when you choose to share your personal information publicly on social media.Where we propose using your personal information for any other uses or for any other lawful basis, we will ensure that we notify you first and get your consent as appropriate.Back to top4. WHEN WE SHARE YOUR INFORMATIONA.
Information shared within the BBC groupTo improve your experience of our services and brands, and to enable us to cross-promote our services, your information may be shared between companies in the BBC group (including BBC Public Service and BBC Studios companies such as UKTV and Britbox International) for the purposes of research, analysis, marketing and ad-serving. Wherever possible this information will be anonymised or aggregated.In addition, the different companies within the BBC Studios group and the BBC Public Service provide data processing services to each other. For example, most of our newsletter subscription services are managed by a team in the BBC Studios Distribution UK headquarters on behalf of the group. As explained in section 3 above, the BBC account service is managed by BBC Public Service in the UK. If you are in the UK and register for an account with one of the commercial services run by us, BBCS Public Service will therefore share a copy of your data with us. Read more about data sharing by BBC Public Service.B.
Information shared with our suppliersWe use third parties to perform business functions on our behalf, such as sending our newsletters, hosting our online services, providing our customer services and fulfilling product orders and processing payments. Our suppliers must comply with our instructions, and not use your personal information for their own business purposes.C.
Information shared via third party embedded contentInformation shared through cookies and similar technologiesWe work with third parties who use cookies and similar technologies to provide a variety of services to us, including to: measure and analyse use of and engagement with our services and emails; deliver and personalise our online marketing and third-party advertising on our services.  These companies may be independently making decisions about how and why your personal information is processed, meaning they are a separate “Data Controller”. To learn more, please read the Cookies Notice provided for the service you are using.D.
Information shared with other partiesWhere required or allowed by law, we may disclose your personal information to law enforcement agencies, government/regulatory bodies, internet service providers and content protection organisations without your consent. For example, if you post inappropriate or objectionable content on our services or where we reasonably believe you may be in breach of the law or there is a safety concern, we may report your content and behaviour to relevant parties.E.
Sale or transfer of all or part of our business or assetsWe reserve the right to transfer your personal information in the event we sell or transfer all or a part of our business or assets so that the buyer can continue to offer you the services. We will make reasonable efforts to provide you with advance notification of the transfer of your information in such circumstances.Back to top5. WHERE WE STORE YOUR INFORMATIONAs a British company, most of our services are operated from the UK but we have teams across the world, including the USA. As described in the previous section, we may share your information with other companies in the BBC Group or with contracted third-party service providers. These companies may be located in, or use IT equipment located in, a country where the data protection laws are different to the UK. Where this is the case, we will take steps to ensure that your information receives an appropriate level of protection.We use service providers, and share data with advertising platforms, that are located outside the UK and European Economic Area (EEA), primarily in the USA. We require recipients of your personal information to provide a similar level of protection when transferring personal information out of the EEA.We will only transfer your personal information outside the UK and EEA to countries with equivalent levels of data protection and/or with appropriate safeguards in place to help ensure a level of protection, as approved by the UK Government and European Commission. This means that we may use companies based in the USA that have certified with the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (and UK Extension) or we use contractual terms approved by the UK Government and European Commission.Back to top6. HOW LONG WE KEEP YOUR INFORMATIONWe will hold your personal information on our systems for as long as is necessary for the relevant service or as long as is set out in any relevant contract you hold with us, in accordance with our retention policy.If you have a BBC account, your account will be deleted after 18 months of inactivity, unless you have an active subscription with us. You will receive reminders before this happens.Where you contribute to one of our online services, we will generally only keep your content for as long as is reasonably required for the purpose(s) for which it was submitted.  After this time, your personal information will either be securely deleted or anonymised so that it can be used for analytical purposes.  Back to top7. HOW WE SECURE YOUR INFORMATIONWe protect your information in many different ways. These include staff training, investing in technology and following strict handling and storing procedures. We maintain appropriate organisational and technological safeguards to help protect against loss, misuse or unauthorised access, disclosure, alteration or destruction of the information we hold about you. We also seek to ensure our service providers do the same.  Even though we have taken steps to help protect the information in our control, you should be aware that security measures cannot provide absolute protection.If you believe that your personal information under our control has been compromised, including access to any accounts you hold with our services, please contact us immediately using the details under ‘Contact Us’ below.Back to top8. CHILDREN USING OUR SERVICESMost of our services are aimed at general audiences, except our Kids and Family brands (e.g. Bluey and Hey Duggee) which are aimed at parents or carers to use with their children.Some of our services are age restricted. This is either due to the nature of the service, for example we do this for some competitions, or due to child privacy or contracting rules in certain countries.  If appropriate, we will take steps to determine the age of people submitting their information to us and may seek to obtain the authorisation of a parent or guardian.  If you are the parent or guardian of a child and you become aware that your child has provided us with information without your authorisation, please contact us at dataprotection@bbc.com.Back to top9. YOUR RIGHTS & CHOICESYou have a number of rights and choices available to you in relation to personal information we hold about you.  If you would like to exercise any of these, please follow the instructions provided or submit a request to us in writing using the contact details provided below.Where permitted by applicable law, we may require you to prove your identity before we carry out your request, e.g. if you have requested access to, or deletion of, your information.You may nominate an authorised agent to make a request on your behalf. When submitting the request, please ensure they are identified as acting on your authority.We will not discriminate against you because you made any of these requests.We may deny certain requests, or fulfil a request only in part, based on our legal rights and obligations. Certain requests may also be subject to exceptions under applicable law. If you are not satisfied with the outcome of your request, you may submit an appeal by sending an email to dataprotection@bbc.com with “Data Privacy Appeal” in the subject line. A.
Change your communication preferencesIf you wish to stop receiving marketing communications from us, please click on the "unsubscribe" link at the bottom of the relevant email. This link will  enable you to unsubscribe from the newsletter or will take you to a preference centre. Please note that you cannot unsubscribe from some service-related messages (which are not used to send marketing materials).In accordance with industry standards, we reserve the right to retain a minimal amount of data necessary to ensure we do not contact you in the future – for example by adding your email address to a ‘suppression list’.B.
Change your settings for cookies and similar technologiesPersonalised advertising cookies and similar technologiesThe choices you have around consents and opting out may vary from territory to territory but will be presented on the relevant website or app. A link is available in each website footer or app settings, which is labelled as ‘cookie settings’, ‘do not share or sell my info’, or similar.You can also choose how cookies (across all websites) are handled on your device via your browser settings. Some browsers also have a setting called Do Not Track, which sends a signal to websites asking them not to track you. However, as there isn’t a common standard for interpreting this signal, our websites do not respond to them. Instead, you should use the settings described above. Your selections are specific to the device, website, and browser you are using. Your selections may be deleted whenever you clear your cookies or browser’s cache.You can also disable the sharing of your encrypted/hashed email address for marketing and advertising purposes in your BBC Account settings.Please see the Cookies Notice for more information about the technologies we use and the options available to you.C.
Access information we hold about youYou can request to confirm what information we hold about you and can receive a copy of it. When submitting a request, please provide us with enough information to enable us to locate your record(s), including the email address we may hold for you and the details of the service you use.You will not have to pay a fee to access your personal information (or to exercise any of the other rights detailed below). However, we may be entitled to charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive or excessive. Alternatively, we may refuse to comply with your request in these circumstances.We will process your request within applicable legal timeframes. For the UK and the EEA, this is one calendar month, but we can extend this time if your request is particularly complicated or large.Request information about your BBC account: To see what information exists about your BBC account and activities, you can make a request via your account.D.
Correct your informationYou can request to correct any incomplete or inaccurate personal information we hold about you, though we may need to verify the accuracy of the new data you provide to us.If you have a BBC account: You can update your “personal details” in your account settings.E.
Delete your informationYou can ask us to delete information we hold about you.  For example, when we no longer need it because you initially gave us consent and you wish to withdraw it. Sometimes we may not be able to delete your information because (i) we are legally required to keep it; or (ii) we need it for our own legitimate business purposes, for example if you were to unsubscribe from an email list, we would need your email address to add to a suppression list to ensure you were not contacted. Where applicable, we will explain the reasons for refusing your request.If you have a BBC account: You can delete your BBC account at any time, unless you have an active subscription. If you have a subscription, you need to cancel this before we’ll let you delete your account. Deleting your account will erase any personal information we have about you. Any data about how you’ve used the BBC online will be made anonymous.F.
Stop us from using your personal informationYou can ask us to stop using your information for direct marketing purposes (see communication preferences).  You can also ‘object’ to us processing your information where we are relying on a legitimate interest. In some cases, we may demonstrate that we have compelling legitimate grounds to process your information which override your rights and freedoms.G.
Restrict the processing of your personal informationYou can ask us to suspend the processing of your personal information if you are concerned about its accuracy or how it is being used.  You can also ask us not to delete your information (for example because you need it to establish, exercise or defend legal claims). H.
Transfer your personal information in a machine-readable format (to you or a third party)This right only applies to automated information which you initially provided consent for us to use or where we used the information to perform a contract with you. I.
Request information about how your personal information is handledSpecifically, you may ask what personal information has been collected, how and why it is processed, the categories of parties who have access to that information, the applicable retention period, and the source of personal information if it was collected from a third party. Delaware, Minnesota, and Oregon residents may also request a list of third parties (as defined in applicable law) to whom we have disclosed personal data.J.
Opt-out of targeted advertising and the “sale” or “sharing” of personal informationWhen you use our services, third parties may use personal information obtained from or in connection with your activities on our services and across unaffiliated sites to show more relevant advertising to you. This may include the categories of personal information described in sub-section G of Section 3 above. In certain jurisdictions, these activities may be considered a “sale, “sharing”, or “targeted advertising”.You can request that we stop using or sharing your personal information for such targeted advertising; you can also request that we not “sell” or “share” your personal information. By “sell”, we mean the sale of your personal information to an outside party for monetary or other valuable consideration. By “share”, we mean the disclosure of your personal information to third parties for their own marketing purposes or for cross-context behavioural advertising purposes, subject to certain exceptions under applicable law.If you would like to opt out of behavioural or targeted advertising, follow the instructions in the Change your settings for cookies and similar technologies section above. You can also communicate your preference by sending a Global Privacy Control signal, on browsers or browser extensions that support such a signal.We do not knowingly “sell” or “share” the personal information of minors under 16 years of age.K.
Complain to a regulatorIf you have raised a concern with us and feel we have not resolved it, you have the right to make a complaint at any time to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), the UK supervisory authority for data protection issues (www.ico.org.uk).If you think that some, or all, of the issues you are concerned about have taken place in your country or state of residence, you can complain to your local data protection and/or privacy regulator. For contact details of national data protection regulators in the EU, please refer to the European Data Protection Board website.Back to top10. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICYThis Privacy Policy may be updated from time to time to reflect changes in law, best practice or in our practices regarding the treatment of personal information. If material changes are made to this Privacy Policy we will notify you by placing a notice on our relevant services. The date of the most recent revision will appear at the top of this page. If you do not agree to the changes, please do not continue to use our services. You should check this policy frequently for updates.Back to top11. CONTACT USWe have appointed a data protection officer (DPO) who is responsible for overseeing questions in relation to this Privacy Policy. If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, including any requests to exercise your legal rights, or you wish to raise a concern, please contact the DPO by email at: dataprotection@bbc.com.  We aim to reply to any queries within five working days.Alternatively, you can complete the form via the customer services helpdesk.You can also write to us by post:Data Protection Officer, Regulatory Affairs , BBC Studios, 1 Television Centre, 101, Wood Lane, London W12 7FAIf you’re in the US:BBC Studios Americas Inc, 1120 Avenue of the Americas, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10036-6700 USABack to top12. ADDITIONAL NOTICESA. CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS:California residents have the right to receive notice of certain of our privacy practices, including the categories of personal and sensitive personal information we may collect (see Section 2), the purpose for which we collect or use such information (see Section 3), whether such information is "sold" or "shared" (as those terms are defined in California law (see Section 9)), and how long such information is retained (see Section 6). You can make requests regarding your personal information as described in Section 9.Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information: follow the instructions in Section 9 (J) to exercise your right to request that we not “sell” or “share” your personal information as such terms are defined in applicable California law.California Shine the Light: California residents may request one time each year if we have disclosed your personal information to third parties for their own direct marketing purposes. While do not generally disclose your personal information as defined in California’s “Shine the Light” law, you may opt out of such sharing by emailing us at dataprotection@bbc.com and indicating that you are a California resident making a “Shine the Light” inquiry.B.  RESIDENTS OF OTHER U.S. STATESResidents of other U.S. states with data privacy laws (including, for example, residents of Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas, Utah or Virginia), have certain rights with respect to your personal information. The scope of these rights are covered by the rights and choices set out in Section 9. We make these available to all, regardless of their location, except where indicated.C. CANADIAN RESIDENTS:We use service providers, and share data with advertising platforms, that are located outside Canada and the Province of Quebec, primarily in the USA. For more information about our policies and procedures regarding transferring personal information outside of Canada, including with our service providers, please contact us using the information outlined at Section 11.If you are a resident in Canada, you also have the following additional rights regarding your personal information:Right to withdraw consent. In Canada, subject to any exemptions, express or implied consent is the legal basis upon which organisations may collect, use and disclose personal information. Accordingly, subject to any exemptions, personal information will only be collected, used, and/or disclosed by us for the purposes described above in this policy, with your express or implied consent, as applicable.Where you have provided your consent to the collection, use, and disclosure of your personal information, you may have the legal right to withdraw your consent under certain circumstances. Please note that if you withdraw your consent, we may not be able to provide our services to you, or your user experience may not be as useful or enjoyable. We will explain the impact to you at the time to help you with your decision.You may also refuse the collection of certain personal information by opting for:In-person inquiries instead of email.Refusing cookies, though this may affect certain site functionalities.Exercising your rights: If you wish to contact us to exercise any of your privacy rights or have any queries about how we use your personal information, please see Section 11.Back to topBritish Broadcasting CorporationHomeNewsSportBusinessInnovationCultureArtsTravelEarthAudioVideoLiveWeatherBBC ShopBritBoxBBC in other languagesFollow BBC on:Terms of UseAbout the BBCPrivacy PolicyCookiesAccessibility HelpContact the BBCAdvertise with usDo not share or sell my infoBBC.com Help & FAQsContent IndexCopyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.