Probabilistic Reasoning (Bite-size Article) - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Security Forem
Follow
Your central hub for all things security. From ethical hacking and CTFs to GRC and career development, for beginners and pros alike
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
Add reaction
Like
Unicorn
Exploding Head
Raised Hands
Fire
Jump to Comments
Save
Boost
More...
Moderate
Copy link
Copy link
Copied to Clipboard
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Facebook
Share to Mastodon
Report Abuse
koshirok096
Posted on Sep 12
Probabilistic Reasoning (Bite-size Article)
#javascript
#algorithms
#beginners
Introduction
In the real world, not everything can be determined with a simple “yes” or “no.”
A medical test came back positive — but does that really mean the person is sick? There’s still a chance they aren’t.
An incoming email — is it spam, and with what probability?
While driving, is that dark object in front of the car a person or just a garbage bag?
In these situations where we can’t be 100% certain, Probabilistic Reasoning is the idea of handling possibilities by assigning numbers (probabilities) to them.
A Dog’s Bark and a Burglar
Probabilistic Reasoning means “reasoning about uncertainty using probability.” To illustrate this, let’s look at a simple example.
In a certain town, the probability of a burglar coming is 1%. If a burglar comes, your dog will bark 90% of the time. However, even when there is no burglar, your dog still barks 5% of the time at night.
Given these conditions, we want to answer: “If the dog barks at night, what is the probability that a burglar is actually present?”
Using Probabilistic Reasoning (via Bayes’ theorem), we can write a short JavaScript example:
// Probabilistic reasoning with a dog and a burglar (Bayesian update)
function posteriorThief(priorThief, sensitivity, specificity) {
const falseAlarm = 1 - specificity;
// Bayes' theorem
return (sensitivity * priorThief) /
(sensitivity * priorThief + falseAlarm * (1 - priorThief));
}
// Prior probability: a burglar comes 1% of the time
const priorThief = 0.01;
// Sensitivity: if a burglar comes, the dog barks 90% of the time
const sensitivity = 0.90;
// Specificity: if there is no burglar, the dog stays quiet 95% of the time
// (meaning a 5% false alarm rate)
const specificity = 0.95;
const result = posteriorThief(priorThief, sensitivity, specificity);
console.log("Probability that a burglar is present when the dog barks =",
(result * 100).toFixed(1), "%");
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
The result will be:
Probability that a burglar is present when the dog barks = 15.4 %
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
So, “the dog barked = there’s a burglar” does not hold true.
In fact, the probability of a burglar actually being there is only about 15%. Because the prior probability of a burglary (1%) is so low, the posterior probability doesn’t rise very high, even with the evidence of barking.
This is the essence of Probabilistic Reasoning: updating our beliefs under uncertainty using probabilities.
Other familiar applications include:
Spam detection: “This email is 95% likely to be spam.”
Weather forecasts: “There’s a 70% chance of rain tomorrow.”
Autonomous driving: “There’s a 70% chance that the object ahead is a person — stop the car.”
In our daily lives, we constantly benefit from such probability-based reasoning.
Conclusion
Probabilistic Reasoning, and the ideas derived from it, are applied in countless aspects of everyday life.
In particular, in hot fields like AI technology and data science, these concepts are used to enable rational decisions such as: “We don’t know for sure, but the likelihood is about this much.”
Thank you for reading.
Top comments (0)
Subscribe
Personal
Trusted User
Create template
Templates let you quickly answer FAQs or store snippets for re-use.
Submit
Preview
Dismiss
Code of Conduct
•
Report abuse
Are you sure you want to hide this comment? It will become hidden in your post, but will still be visible via the comment's permalink.
Hide child comments as well
Confirm
For further actions, you may consider blocking this person and/or reporting abuse
koshirok096
Follow
College Student / Frontend Developer / Web Designer / Photographer
Location
Vancouver, Canada
Joined
May 24, 2021
More from koshirok096
How to Quickly Identify the Cause When You Can't Eject a Disk on Mac (Bite-size Article)
#terminal
#cli
#beginners
How to Handle git push Failures with Large Data (Bite-size Article)
#git
#beginners
Simple Python Script to Scrape and Download All Files from a Web Page (Bite-size Article)
#python
#beginners
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
DEV++
Podcasts
Videos
Tags
DEV Education Tracks
DEV Challenges
DEV Help
Advertise on DEV
DEV Showcase
About
Contact
Free Postgres Database
Software comparisons
Forem Shop
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account