How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
'WhiteCobra' floods VSCode market with crypto-stealing extensions
These 12 courses teach you to automate your job in this $20 deal
New HybridPetya ransomware can bypass UEFI Secure Boot
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeVirus, Spyware, Malware, & PUP Removal GuidesHow to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
Filed Under :
Trojan Horses
August 15, 2008
What is Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde?Skip this and learn how to remove Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde!
The Vundo family of Trojans is one of the most common infections
we find on user's computers. This infection can cause popups that include
advertisements for rogue anti-spyware programs. Some common rogue antispyware
programs that are advertised include WinFixer, SysProtect and WinAntiSpyware.
Users are normally targeted by false positives, fake alerts, and warning of
infections on their computer. An example of this type of misleading advertisement
would be popups alerting users that they are infected with a blackworm virus.
The most common method of infection is through outdated versions of the Sun
Java platform; older versions are being exploited so it is important to firstly
make sure that your Java software is fully up to date. This infection is normally
detectable by users receiving popups when they use the Internet. Your antivirus
program might also notify you via an alert that you have a Vundo Trojan on
your computer.
The Vundo infection has evolved over time to include harder
and harder protection methods so that it cannot be easily removed. These methods
are random names, random autorun locations, random CLSIDs, and rootkits to
hide these locations from removal tools. Due to this, specialized tools have
been created in order to target this specific infection and remove it. The
following guide will explain how to use the tool, and hopefully rid your system
of this malware.
Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde Removal Options
Self Help Removal Guide (Below)
Ask for Help in our Security Forum
Self Help Guide
This guide contains advanced information, but has been written in such a way so that anyone can follow it. Please ensure your data is backed up before proceeding. If you are uncomfortable making changes to your computer or following these steps, do not worry! Instead you can get free one-on-one help by asking in the forums.
Print out these instructions as we may need to close every window that is
open later in the fix.
It is possible that the infection you are trying to remove will not allow
you to download files on the infected computer. If this is the case, then
you will need to download the files requested in this guide on another computer
and then transfer them to the infected computer. You can transfer the files
via a CD/DVD, external drive, or USB flash drive.
Before we can do anything we must first end the processes that belong to
Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde
so that it does not interfere with the cleaning procedure. To do this, please
download RKill to your desktop from the following link.
RKill
Download Link - (Download page will open in a new tab or browser window.)
When at the download page, click on the Download Now button
labeled iExplore.exe download link. When you are prompted
where to save it, please save it on your desktop.
Once it is downloaded, double-click on the iExplore.exe
icon in order to automatically attempt to stop any processes associated with
Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde
and other Rogue programs. Please be patient while the program looks for various
malware programs and ends them. When it has finished, the black window will
automatically close and you can continue with the next step. If you get a
message that RKill is an infection, do not be concerned. This message is just
a fake warning given by
Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde
when it terminates programs that may potentially remove it. If you run into
these infections warnings that close RKill, a trick is to leave the warning
on the screen and then run RKill again. By not closing the warning, this typically
will allow you to bypass the malware trying to protect itself so that rkill
can terminate
Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde
. So, please try running RKill until the malware is no longer running. You
will then be able to proceed with the rest of the guide. If you continue
having problems running RKill, you can download the other renamed versions
of RKill from the rkill
download page. All of the files are renamed copies of RKill, which you
can try instead. Please note that the download page will open in a new browser
window or tab.
Do not reboot your computer after running RKill as the malware programs will
start again.
At this point you should download Malwarebytes Anti-Malware, or MBAM, to scan your computer for any any infections or adware that may be present. Please download Malwarebytes from the following
location and save it to your desktop:
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware Download Link (Download page will open in a new window)
Once downloaded, close all programs and Windows on your computer, including
this one.
Double-click on the icon on your desktop named mb3-setup-1878.1878-3.0.6.1469.exe.
This will start the installation of MBAM onto your computer.
When the installation begins, keep following the prompts in order to continue
with the installation process. Do not make any changes to default settings
and when the program has finished installing, make sure you leave
Launch
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware checked. Then click on the Finish button. If MalwareBytes prompts you to reboot, please do not do so.
MBAM will now start and you will be at the main screen as shown below.
Please click on the Scan Now button to start the scan. If there is an update available for Malwarebytes it will automatically download and install it before performing the scan.
MBAM will now start scanning your computer for malware. This process can
take quite a while, so we suggest you do something else and periodically
check on the status of the scan to see when it is finished.
When MBAM is finished scanning it will display a screen that displays any malware that it has detected. Please note that the infections found may be different
than what is shown in the image below due to the guide being updated for newer versions of MBAM.
You should now click on the Remove Selected button to remove
all the seleted malware. MBAM will now delete all of the files and registry
keys and add them to the programs quarantine. When removing the files, MBAM
may require a reboot in order to remove some of them. If it displays a message
stating that it needs to reboot, please allow it to do so. Once your computer
has rebooted, and you are logged in, please continue with the rest of the
steps.
You can now exit the MBAM program.
As many rogues and other malware are installed through vulnerabilities found
in out-dated and insecure programs, it is strongly suggested that you use
Secunia PSI to scan for vulnerable programs on your computer. A tutorial on
how to use Secunia PSI to scan for vulnerable programs can be found here:
How to
detect vulnerable and out-dated programs using Secunia Personal Software Inspector
Your computer should now be free of the
Trojan.vundo and Virtumonde
program. If your current anti-virus solution let this infection through,
you may want to consider purchasing the
PRO version of Malwarebytes Anti-Malware to protect against these types
of threats in the future.
This is a self-help guide. Use at your own risk.
BleepingComputer.com can not be held responsible for problems that may occur by using this information. If you would like help with any of these fixes, you can ask for malware removal assistance in our Virus,Trojan,Spyware, and Malware Removal Logs forum.
If you have any questions about this self-help guide then please post those questions in our Am I infected? What do I do? and someone will help you.
search guides
Latest Guides
Theonlinesearch.com Smartwebfinder.com PBlock+ adware browser extension Toksearches.xyz Smashapps.net Search Redirect Smashappsearch.com Search Redirect BipApp Chrome Extension Please Allow to watch the video Notification Page Annual visitor survey Scam Chrome search contest 2020 Scam
Removal Tool Guides
ComboFix
Emsisoft Anti-Malware
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Malwarebytes' Anti-Rootkit
SUPERAntiSpyware
Threat Descriptions
Adware
Browser Extensions and Add-ons
Browser Hijacker
Potentially Unwanted Programs (PUP)
Ransomware
Rogue Programs & Scareware
Rootkits
Spyware
Tech Support Scams
Trojan Horses
Unwanted Browser Advertisements
Worms
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now