Semantic Search UI with Tambo - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
Add reaction
Like
Unicorn
Exploding Head
Raised Hands
Fire
Jump to Comments
Save
Boost
More...
Moderate
Copy link
Copy link
Copied to Clipboard
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Facebook
Share to Mastodon
Report Abuse
Lahfir
Posted on Sep 11
Semantic Search UI with Tambo
#ai
#tambo
Let people ask in their own words. Show results they can act on.
Live demo · Source code
Why I built this
Most search experiences make people work too hard: pick the right category, open five filter drawers, guess which checkbox means what. It’s tiring.
I wanted something simpler: you type “show me laptops under $1500 with 16GB RAM” and immediately see useful cards you can skim, compare, and click. No flashy effects, no friction—just answers.
I built this template during the Tambo Hackathon by Tambo. My goal was personal: stop making people wrestle with filters and let them just ask for what they need. With limited time, I focused on what actually helps users—semantic understanding, clean cards, fast performance—and skipped everything that gets in the way.
What this template gives you
Generative UI with Tambo: Plain‑English queries are turned into structured intent (filters, sort, constraints) and friendly UI hints.
Card‑first results: Clean, responsive cards that highlight the details that matter.
Works across domains: Products, jobs, real estate, services, recipes, documents—anything you can search and present as cards.
Fast by default: Minimal JS, smart caching, mobile‑first, and no gratuitous animations.
It’s a pragmatic starting point for teams who need great semantic search without building a bespoke system from scratch.
How Tambo powers “generative UI”
Tambo converts fuzzy, natural language into something your UI can immediately use:
Understand intent: Extracts entities, constraints, preferences, and sort hints.
Propose UI: Suggests helpful refinements and short explanations (“Filtered to 2 bedrooms under $2k”).
Stay predictable: You keep control of what is rendered; Tambo just provides structured guidance.
The result is an interface that feels conversational without becoming chaotic.
Try these queries
“Find wireless headphones under $200 with noise canceling”
“2‑bedroom apartments downtown under $2,000 with in‑unit laundry”
“Remote senior React roles above $120k, US‑only”
“Men’s waterproof hiking boots, wide fit”
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
You’ll get relevant, scannable cards—no labyrinth of filters required.
Real‑world examples included
Electronics: Specs, prices, compatibility
Real Estate: Beds, location, amenities
Jobs: Salary, skills, remote/hybrid
Fashion: Sizes, materials, styles
Same UI, different data. That’s the point.
Tech stack (kept intentionally simple)
Next.js 15 — Routing, data, and deployment
React 19 — Modern, stable UI primitives
TypeScript — Catch mistakes early
Tambo — Semantic understanding + UI guidance
Tailwind CSS — Fast, consistent styling
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
Design choices that respect users
Card‑first: Clear hierarchy, actionable info, easy comparison
Mobile‑native: Touch targets sized right, no hover‑only affordances
No gratuitous animations: Snappy over “smooth”
Accessible by default: High contrast, sensible semantics
My baseline theme
:root {
--background: #ffffff;
--text: #000000;
--accent: #0070f3;
--border: #eaeaea;
}
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
High contrast, zero clutter. Change it if you want; it won’t fight you.
Performance that feels instant
Tiny, focused bundles: Only what you need
Smart caching: Results feel instant after first query
Image optimization: Crisp cards, quick loads
No animation tax: Fewer libs, fewer jank sources
Getting started (2 minutes)
git clone https://github.com/lahfir/tambo-product-showcase
cd product-showcase
npm install
cp example.env.local .env.local
# Add your Tambo API key
echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_TAMBO_API_KEY=your-key-here" >> .env.local
npm run dev
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
Open the app, type a query, and you’re off.
Make it yours
Swap the data source: Point the retrieval layer at your API or database (see src/services/*-data.ts).
Tune the cards: Adjust the fields and layout in the existing components under src/components/tambo/ so they show what matters for your domain.
Control the UI contract: You decide which Tambo signals you honor (filters, sort, facets, explanations) and how they render.
Because the template is domain‑agnostic, you can use it for anything that involves search, with results presented as cards.
Why simple wins
Fast beats fancy: People want answers, not motion
Mobile matters: Many users are on phones—optimize for that reality
Clean scales: Fewer assumptions make it easier to adapt
Less breaks less: Small surface area, fewer bugs
What’s next
I’m doubling down on the core experience:
Even faster first‑query results
More polished mobile ergonomics
Additional domain examples
Continued code cleanup and clarity
Built for teams who want to ship a semantic search today—not a science project tomorrow.
Top comments (0)
Subscribe
Personal
Trusted User
Create template
Templates let you quickly answer FAQs or store snippets for re-use.
Submit
Preview
Dismiss
Code of Conduct
•
Report abuse
Are you sure you want to hide this comment? It will become hidden in your post, but will still be visible via the comment's permalink.
Hide child comments as well
Confirm
For further actions, you may consider blocking this person and/or reporting abuse
Lahfir
Follow
Joined
Sep 11, 2025
Trending on DEV Community
Hot
Beyond the terminal: Gemini CLI comes to Zed
#gemini
#ai
#zed
#opensource
Can We Set the Record Straight? AI, Content, and a Bit of Sanity 🙏
#ai
#writing
#ethics
#devrel
Why Prompt Engineering is the New Literacy
#ai
#learning
#machinelearning
#webdev
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
Tags
About
Contact
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account