DEV Showcase - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
DEV Showcase
Showcasing the best products, companies, and open-source projects on DEV
Have something you'd like to
showcase? Get in touch.
DEV Showcase is a new directory of great companies, products and projects that support DEV. We're working with new
and existing partners to add more to the Showcase, so come back soon to see more great tools in the near future.
Work #LikeABosch
At Bosch, we shape the future by inventing high-quality technologies and services that spark enthusiasm and enrich people's lives.
Bright Data
Bright Data is a leading web data platform that helps developers collect public web data reliably and at scale.
Checkly: Modern Application Monitoring
Checkly is the leading monitoring platform built specifically for modern engineering teams.
DevCycle: Modern Feature Management
DevCycle is the first OpenFeature-native feature flagging platform, pairing managed service reliability with freedom from vendor lock-in.
MongoDB
MongoDB is a developer data platform that enables organizations to build and modernize applications across any scale.
Neon: Serverless PostgreSQL
Neon is a fully managed serverless PostgreSQL with branching, bottomless storage, and scale-to-zero capabilities.
Pieces for Developers
Pieces is your AI-enabled productivity tool designed to supercharge developer efficiency.
Cloudinary: The Image and Video API for Developers
Cloudinary is an API-first, cloud-based solution that helps automate all processes related to managing images and videos for the web.
Scrimba
Learn how to create mind-blowing apps powered by generative AI.
Stellar Network
Stellar makes it possible to create, send, and trade digital representations of all forms of money: dollars, pesos, bitcoin, pretty much anything.
Let's Get Started
We look forward to discussing options to help your organization reach and engage the amazing community here at DEV.
Name
Work Email
Job Title
Company
Get in Touch
Thanks for getting in touch!
We'll reach out to you shortly.
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
DEV++
Reading List
Podcasts
Videos
Tags
DEV Education Tracks
DEV Challenges
DEV Help
Advertise on DEV
DEV Showcase
About
Contact
Free Postgres Database
Software comparisons
Forem Shop
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account