ERIC - Grantee and Online Submission System
NotesFAQContact Us
Grantee and Online Submission System
All fields require responses unless otherwise noted
Guidelines
ERIC only accepts education research. All submissions must meet our Selection Policy criteria.
Please review our Online Submission FAQs before submitting materials.
Only authors, those who hold copyright, or authorized representatives may submit materials.
Authors must grant ERIC the right to display the full text of the material immediately, with the exception of IES grantees.
Allowable Content
IES grantee and contractor submissions (see below).
Individual papers, briefs, reports, or books. For more information, see this
infographic.
ERIC does not index textbooks, lesson plans, blogs, or html-only text.
PDF Requirements
Watch this video on tips for ensuring compliance with the ED Public Access Policy.
If your PDF does not have the required information, please use
this coversheet and append it to your document.
All submissions must have an abstract, and a cover page with the title, author name(s), and publication date. Use the date of completion for unpublished work.
Complete all edits and corrections, and remove editing marks from tracked changes.
Remove your CV or resume.
For peer-reviewed work, provide evidence such as an explanation of the peer-review process on the cover or copyright page of the document. Alternatively, you may submit a URL to the publisher’s page or a PDF outlining the peer-review process.
Additional Information for IES Grantees and Contractors
Grantees and contractors are required to submit their work to ERIC unless they publish in a journal that has agreed to deposit on their behalf.
See the Grantee Requirements FAQs.
Submit your final, peer-reviewed manuscript upon acceptance for publication in a peer-reviewed publication, as required by the IES Public Access Policy.
The grant or contract number and funding agency name must appear in the online submission form and in the acknowledgement section of the document.
Full text will display in ERIC 12 months after the publication date.
Is your submission education research as defined by the ERIC Selection policy?
Materials are original presentations of education research, such as data and/or empirical analysis; literature reviews or summaries of a field; methodological work; presentations or critiques of theories; or logic models that can guide practice.
Yes No
Is your submission directly related to one or more topics in the IES authorizing legislation?
This includes information on closing the achievement gap, education practices that improve academic achievement and promote learning, and topics that were covered by the former ERIC clearinghouses: adult, career, and vocational education; community colleges; assessment and evaluation; higher education; teaching and teacher education; information and technology; counseling and student services; educational management; elementary and early childhood education; reading, English, and communication; science, mathematics, and environmental education; social studies/social science education; rural education and small schools; urban education; disabilities and gifted education; and languages and linguistics.
Yes No
Are you authorized to submit this material to ERIC?
By checking yes, you are agreeing that no other source holds a copyright that would prohibit you from including this submission.
Yes No
Do you grant ERIC the rights to distribute the full text of your submitted document to the public?
By submitting your materials, you are providing the Institute of Education Sciences a royalty-free, perpetual, and irrevocable license to index and display the materials in ERIC. This license is subject only to the narrow exceptions set forth in the ERIC selection policy.
Yes No
Is your submitted material in English?
Materials considered for inclusion in ERIC must be written in English, or a translation of the full-text must be available in English. English presented in materials must conform to standards of grammar and understandability.
Yes No
Title of the Submitted Material
Please enter the title exactly as it appears on the submitted material (including capitalization).
Author(s)
If there is more than one author, please enter the authors in the order that they appear in the source (up to 6 names). Authors who are listed on an ERIC-recognized author identification website should select the Author ID type from the dropdown menu and enter the URL to the author page.
+ Add another author
Abstract
Please make sure your abstract follows the guidance at http://eric.ed.gov/?abstract
Has your work been funded (in whole or in part) by a U.S. government research grant or contract?
Yes, an IES grant or contract
Yes, a Department of Education (non-IES) grant or contract
Yes, a non-Department of Education grant or contract
No
What type of document are you submitting?
Please make sure your document is eligible to submit based on the selection policy http://eric.ed.gov/pdf/policy.pdf
-- select one --
Book
Booklet
Conference Paper
Dissertation or Graduate Thesis
Journal Article
Literature Review
Policy Analysis
Position Paper
Report
Other
Publication Details
Please specify the publication date: the document was released or published, not the date submitted to ERIC. Month and Day of month are optional.
YearMonthDay
- N/A -
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
- N/A -
How many pages are in your publication? pages
How many references do you cite? references
Conference Information
Name
Location
Dates
Please enter the details of the conference/meeting where the paper was presented.
Journal Citation
Journal Name
Volume, Issue, Pagesv n p–
Date
Volume, Issue and Pages are optional. e.g. Journal of Education Research,v32 n2 p123-145 Jan 2014
Please attach a PDF of your submission.
Please upload the document in PDF format with a maximum size of 100MB (megabytes). Please ensure it is complete and the Title, Author(s), and Publication Date are included on the first page and match the information you provided here.
Grant Funding Information
Please note that the Grant or Contract Number and Funding Agency Name must appear both in the online submission form and on the document itself to be accepted as a submission.
Please enter your grant or contract number
Which center funded your work?-- select one --
National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance
National Center for Education Research
National Center for Special Education Research
National Center for Education Statistics
Department of Education
Other
Has this work been peer reviewed? Yes
No
Link to Data Management Plan
Peer Review (optional)
Non-grantee content may be marked as peer reviewed if evidence is provided that the material is from a peer-reviewed source. ERIC recognizes blind and expert peer-review processes as described in the ERIC Selection Policy. Internal, editorial reviews and dissertation reviews are not recognized by ERIC as an accepted type of peer review.
The peer-review process must be briefly explained on the front matter of the document and must match ERIC’s accepted types (blind and expert). Alternatively, you may submit a URL to the publisher's page or to a PDF outlining the peer-review process. If neither is included, your submission will not be marked as peer reviewed.
What type of peer-review process was used on the material you are submitting?-- N/A --
Blind (or anonymous) peer review
Expert peer review
Is there a brief statement or explanation of the peer-review process in the front matter of the document?-- N/A --
Yes
No (provide link below)
Your Contact Details
First name
Last name
Email
Please enter your first and last name, and an email address where we may contact you with questions. You will also receive an email confirmation your submission details.
Please review your submission details listed below. If you need to modify any details, please use the Edit button to go back to the submission form.
Once you have confirmed that your submission details are correct, you must click the Submit button to complete your submission.
Please wait... your submission is being sent.
Thank you! Your submission has been received and an email has been sent to you@mail.com confirming your submission details.
Document Not Eligible
Your submission is not eligible to be indexed in ERIC.For more information, please see the selection policy at http://eric.ed.gov/pdf/policy.pdf.
Start a New Submission
This is a dialog box for messages.
Privacy | Copyright | Contact Us | Selection Policy | API | MetricsJournals | Non-Journals | Download | Submit | Multimedia | Widget