android - The file name is too complicated - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
The file name is too complicated [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
47 times
Part of Mobile Development Collective
-2
Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.
Want to improve this question? Guide the asker to update the question so it focuses on a single, specific problem. Narrowing the question will help others answer the question concisely. You may edit the question if you feel you can improve it yourself. If edited, the question will be reviewed and might be reopened.
Closed 16 hours ago.
Improve this question
I am self-taught in developing Android.
While listening to several lectures, I noticed that the file name, class, and interface usage are different. If there is a file naming convention, I want to use it in a unified manner. What should I do?
I'm going to use it according to the MVVM pattern and the architecture recommended by Google. I want to organize the file names according to the purpose of data, model, viewmodel, ui, repository, etc. Also, I want to understand what class, interface, sealed class, etc. are created inside these files. For example, API uses retrofit to name interfaces and services. I would appreciate it if you could organize it like this.
androidfilenamescompose
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 18 hours ago
김영광김영광
1
New contributor
김영광 is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
3
1
file name, class, and interface usage are different Different from what?
Different from each other?
Well, yes of course they are different.
Filenames are different from class names.
I don't even understand what you are asking.
John Gordon
–
John Gordon
2025-09-14 03:58:14 +00:00
Commented
17 hours ago
I don't know how to name the file according to the purpose. And I don't know when to use interface and sealed class.
김영광
–
김영광
2025-09-14 05:08:01 +00:00
Commented
16 hours ago
The official Kotlin Coding Convention should answer the first question, and this Stack Overflow question answers the second one.
tyg
–
tyg
2025-09-14 07:42:24 +00:00
Commented
14 hours ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
6428
What is the difference between px, dip, dp, and sp?
4374
How can I close/hide the Android soft keyboard programmatically?
3567
Why is the Android emulator so slow? How can we speed up the Android emulator?
Related questions
6428
What is the difference between px, dip, dp, and sp?
4374
How can I close/hide the Android soft keyboard programmatically?
3567
Why is the Android emulator so slow? How can we speed up the Android emulator?
2876
How can I save an activity state using the save instance state?
1501
Is there a way to get the source code from an APK file?
1476
What is the difference between match_parent and fill_parent?
1131
Download a file with Android, and showing the progress in a ProgressDialog
1610
How can you get the build/version number of your Android application?
1470
What is the difference between gravity and layout_gravity in Android?
559
How do I remove the file suffix and path portion from a path string in Bash?
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
androidfilenamescompose
See similar questions with these tags.
Mobile Development
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Linked
65
What is the difference between sealed class vs sealed interface in kotlin
Hot Network Questions
What are these angled things on the Saab 340 tail?
Which video game had the first "summon supporter" mechanic? (Summoning a "sub character" to fight)
If OP_RETURN relay limits are ineffective, why remove the safeguard instead of keeping it as a default discouragement?
What is the probability of coming out ahead in the iterated alternating St. Petersburg gamble?
Are copies made by God-Eternal Kefnet cast from my hand for the purpose of Gale, Waterdeep Prodigy?
Change some file names during a backup with rsync
What is the purpose of the neutral line in unbalanced three-phase systems?
How many of each type of dice could you possibly need?
Does systemd-cryptenroll encryption with a TPM bind decryption to that TPM?
Confidence interval for difference of probabilities, for paired data
Adventure B-movie from the 70s involving three white people in a tribal country and a medallion the tribe uses in rituals
Could there be a set of vectors that is linearly independent in the usual sense, but becomes linearly dependent if we allow infinite sums?
How can referees verify computationally intensive results when HPC resources are required?
2008 Toyota Tacoma Rust Recall Expired
Examples of mathematically interesting numbers that can be expressed as an integer tetration (besides Graham’s number)
Can chess engines solve the bishop and knight mate without the use of an endings tablebase?
Implications of OP_RETURN changes in upcoming Bitcoin Core version 30.0
How to convert an MP3 CD into a regular (Red Book) audio CD?
Water around foundation inside the home
Malicious tampering of trusted libraries
Is the core project of Early Buddhism just "death anxiety therapy engineering"?
How to remove parts of all file paths in a .m3u playlist with Notepad++?
The pattern { Main verb} + not to [infinitive 1] AND (to) [infinitive 2]} | He decided not to go to the beach and (to) swim for an hour
Highlight a range of y-values in a pgfplot dateplot
more hot questions
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943