Viannos massacres - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Background
Toggle Background subsection
1.1
Ambush at Kato Simi
1.2
Battle of Kato Simi
2
Massacres
3
Aftermath
4
See also
5
Notes
6
References
7
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Viannos massacres
6 languages
BrezhonegΕλληνικάEspañolFrançaisPortuguêsРусский
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
Coordinates: 35°2′49″N 25°29′22″E﻿ / ﻿35.04694°N 25.48944°E﻿ / 35.04694; 25.48944
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
1943 mass killing of civilians by Nazi German forces on Crete, Axis-occupied Greece
Viannos massacresPart of the war crimes of the Wehrmacht during the Cretan resistanceViannos, Heraklion, Crete, Kingdom of Greece in 1943LocationViannos, Heraklion, Crete, Kingdom of Greece (under German-occupation)Coordinates35°2′49″N 25°29′22″E﻿ / ﻿35.04694°N 25.48944°E﻿ / 35.04694; 25.48944Date14–16 September 1943Attack typeMass executionWeaponsmachine guns and riflesDeaths500+ Cretan men (Mass murder)PerpetratorsFriedrich-Wilhelm Müller
22nd Air Landing DivisionMotiveAnti-Greek sentiment, reprisal
The Viannos massacres (Greek: Σφαγές της Βιάννου / Ολοκαύτωμα της Βιάννου) were a mass extermination campaign launched by German forces against the civilian residents of around 20 villages located in the areas of east Viannos and west Ierapetra provinces on the Greek island of Crete during World War II. The killings, with a death toll in excess of 500,[1][2][3][4] were carried out on 14–16 September 1943 by Wehrmacht units. They were accompanied by the burning of most villages, looting, and the destruction of harvests.[5][6]
The loss of life amounted to one of the deadliest massacres during the Axis occupation of Greece, second only to the massacre of Kalavryta. It was ordered by Generalleutnant Friedrich-Wilhelm Müller, in retaliation for the support and involvement of the local population in the Cretan resistance. Müller, who earned the nickname "the Butcher of Crete", was executed after the war for his part in this and other massacres.
Background[edit]
Viannosclass=notpageimage| Location of Viannos in Greece
Viannos is a mountainous area in the southeastern part of Heraklion regional unit, stretching between the feet of Mount Dikti in the north and the Libyan Sea in the south coast of Crete. Following the Battle of Crete in 1941 during which the island fell to the Axis, Viannos and the nearby Lasithi were part of the Italian occupation zone. Until the end of 1942, the Italians had hardly any presence in the area, hence facilitating the set up and activation of several resistance groups. Among them was one of the largest guerrilla bands in Crete, led by Manolis Bandouvas.[7]
In early 1943, the increasing activity of guerrillas combined with the rumors that the Allies had plans to invade Crete, led the Italians to start the construction of coastal fortifications and install garrisons in the region. On the other hand, the Germans had started since 1942 to station forces of their own in the coastal villages of Tsoutsouros and Arvi. In May 1943, they also established an outpost with three men in Kato Simi that were in charge of collecting potatoes for the provision of occupation troops and keeping the surroundings under surveillance.[5][8]
Ambush at Kato Simi[edit]
The Allied invasion of Sicily in July 1943 followed by the Italian armistice announced on September 8 and the smuggling of the Italian commander of eastern Crete Angelico Carta to Egypt, reinforced the rumors that an Allied operation against Crete was imminent. Prompted by this misapprehension, Bandouvas ordered an attack against the German outpost in Kato Simi.[9][10] As historian Antony Beevor notes, Bandouvas acted without consulting the British; he anticipated that the Allies would soon land, and hoped that he would emerge as a national hero when they did so.[5] Greek writer Demosthenes Raptopoulos noted that Bandouvas and his men were constantly listening to British radio broadcasts and assumed based on these broadcasts that Allied forces would also launch an invasion of Crete; a scenario which, as Raptopoulos noted, the SOE contacts of Bandouvas refused to confirm or deny. When Bandouvas mustered a force to launch his attack, he methodically selected only members of the EAM and ELAS to participate.[11]
On September 10, Bandouvas' partisans launched their attack on the outpost, killing the two German soldiers present and throwing their bodies in a crevice.[12] Bandouvas later claimed he had instructed his men to capture the two alive, conforming to orders from Cairo. These claims have been denied by SOE agents Patrick Leigh Fermor and Thomas James Dunbabin, who maintain that no order was given.[13]
Battle of Kato Simi[edit]
The bodies of the two German soldiers stationed in Kato Simi were discovered and news of the incident reached their superiors, who ordered an infantry company to move to the village and investigate their fate.[5] In the meantime, Bandouvas had realized that the village was in danger and he was left with no other option but to defend it. Thus, he set an ambush with 40 of his men in a valley near the entrance of Kato Simi and waited for the Germans. They appeared on the morning of September 12 and were assaulted with running fire. Despite their initial surprise, the Germans managed to retreat and a fierce battle began that lasted until the late afternoon. The Germans were finally defeated, suffering heavy losses.[14][a] Twelve Germans were captured alive.[15] Bandouvas' partisans lost only one man and withdrew to the mountains.[citation needed]
Massacres[edit]
On the day following the elimination of the company in Kato Simi, a large German force numbering more than 2,000 men started to gather in Viannos. Exasperated by the loss of his men and wanting to set an example for fleeing Italians who were considering joining with the partisans, the commander of Heraklion, Friedrich-Wilhelm Müller, ordered soldiers from the 65th Infantry Regiment of the 22nd Air Landing Division (which formed part of the German garrison) to destroy Viannos and summarily execute all males over the age of 16 as well as everyone who was arrested in the countryside, irrespective of gender or age.[12]
Hence, a plan for the systematic destruction of Viannos was put into place starting on September 13. Separated into smaller groups, troops from the 65th Infantry Regiment surrounded the region, entering it simultaneously from various directions. At the beginning, they reassured the locals that their intentions were peaceful, persuading many of the men who had fled to the mountains to return to their homes. On the following day, indiscriminate mass executions, impromptu shootings and arrests, as well as looting, arsons, vandalism, demolition and destruction of harvests, were carried out by the Germans.[9][16][10][17][18] Survivors were forbidden to return to their ruined homes and bury their dead.[12]
Aftermath[edit]
Present-day view of Ano Viannos.
Amiras memorial - detail.
The exact number of Greek victims remains unknown but most sources agree that the number exceeds 500,[10] consisting of inhabitants of the villages of Kefalovryssi, Kato Simi, Amiras, Pefkos, Vachos, Agios Vassilios, Ano Viannos, Sykologos, Krevatas, Kalami and Loutraki (in Greek: Κεφαλοβρύσι, Κάτω Σύμη, Αμιράς, Πεύκος, Βαχός, Άγιος Βασίλειος, Άνω Βιάννος, Συκολόγος, Κρεβατάς, Καλάμι, και Λουτράκι) in east Viannos as well as those of Myrtos, Gdochia, Riza,
Mournies, Mythoi, Malles, Christos and Parsas (present day Metaxochori) (Μύρτος, Γδόχια, Ρίζα, Μουρνιές, Μύθοι, Μάλλες, Χριστός and Παρσάς - Μεταξοχώρι) in east Ierapetra.[17]
About 200 more civilians were held hostages. Around 1,000 buildings, mostly houses, were destroyed. The surviving villagers were forbidden to bury their dead or return to their homes, most of which had been burned to the ground. No reparations were ever paid to those who survived. It took the villages many years to recover, although some never managed to achieve that completely.[citation needed]
Most of Bandouvas' guerrillas dispersed in the nearby mountains whilst he and a few men fled westwards, being chased by the Germans. They were joined by resistance groups of the White mountains range, and during October 1943, clashed with German detachments on several occasions. In reprisal, the Germans executed several civilians in the villages of Kali Sykia and Kallikratis. In November 1943, Bandouvas was eventually evacuated to Egypt.[5]
General Müller was captured by the Red Army in East Prussia and later extradited to Greece. Along with Bruno Bräuer, commander of the ‘’Festung Kreta’’ between 1942–44, he was charged with war crimes by a Greek military court.[19][5] Both were convicted, sentenced to death on 9 December 1946 and executed by firing squad on 20 May 1947.[20] No one else was ever brought to justice.[citation needed]
Today, each village has a war memorial dedicated to their dead whereas a large memorial commemorating those who lost their lives during the September 1943 has been erected in the village of Amiras, located at 35°02′19″N 25°26′35″E﻿ / ﻿35.0387°N 25.4431°E﻿ / 35.0387; 25.4431.[citation needed]
See also[edit]
Kallikratis executions
Massacre of Kondomari
Razing of Kandanos
Holocaust of Kedros
Razing of Anogeia
List of massacres in Greece
War crimes of the Wehrmacht
Notes[edit]
^ Estimates on the number of German soldiers killed vary widely: Stroud estimates more than 400,[12] while Davis mentions two companies.[9]
References[edit]
^ Γ. Δ. Χρηστάκης, Κ. Γ. Στεφανάκης. Επαρχία Βιάννου, 1940–1945: το ολοκαύτωμα του 1943, Σύλλογος Βιαννιτών Ηρακλείου "Ο Πατούχας", 2000
^ Fermor, Patrick Leigh; Cooper, Artemis. Words of Mercury, John Murray, London, 2004, ISBN 071956106X.
^ Lewis, Damien. Churchill's Secret Warriors: The Explosive True Story of the Special Forces Desperadoes of WWII, Quercus Editions Ltd, 2014; ISBN 1848669178.
^ Schwarz, Peter. Die Plünderung Griechenlands und die Rückkehr der "deutschen Frage", gleichheit 4/2015, 2015.
^ a b c d e f Beevor, Antony. Crete: The Battle and the Resistance, John Murray Ltd, 1991. Penguin Books, 1992.
^ Ξεφυλλίζοντας την Ιστορία: Τα τραγικά Γεγονότα που Οδήγησαν στην Καταστροφή της Βιάννου, Πατρίς onLine, 9
Σεπτεμβρίου 2003; archived here
^ Leigh Fermor, Patrick (2014). Abducting a General: the Kreipe Operation in Crete. New York: New York Review Books. p. 100. ISBN 9781590179383.
^ Moss, Stanley W. Ill Met By Moonlight, Orion, 2014, ISBN 9781780228808.
^ a b c Davis, Wes. The Ariadne Objective: The Underground War to Rescue Crete from the Nazis, Crown, 2013.
^ a b c Kokonas, Nikos A. The Cretan Resistance, 1941–1945, Zeno, London, 1993.
^ Raptopoulos, Demosthenes (9 September 2006). "The Viannos Holocaust". Patris. Retrieved 7 December 2022.
^ a b c d Stroud, Rick. Kidnap in Crete: The True Story of the Abduction of a Nazi General, Bloomsbury, 2015, p. 92.
^ Leigh Fermor, Patrick (2014). Abducting a General: the Kreipe Operation in Crete. New York: New York Review Books. p. 100. ISBN 9781590179383.
^ Leong Kok Wey, Adam. Killing the Enemy: Assassination Operations in World War II, I.B. Tauris, 2015.
^ Raptopoulos, Demosthenes (9 September 2006). "The Viannos Holocaust". Patris. Retrieved 7 December 2022.
^ Muñoz, Antonio (2018). The German Secret Field Police in Greece, 1941–1944. McFarland. p. 84. ISBN 978-1476667843.
^ a b Στέφανος Α. Γεροντής. Τα καημένα χωριά. Μνήμες της καταστροφής των δυτικών χωριών της Ιεράπετρας το 1943. Έκδοση Νομαρχιακής Αυτοδιοίκησης Λασιθίου, 2008.
^ Καζαντζάκης, Ν., Καλιτσουνάκης, Ι. και Κακριδής, Ι.Θ. Έκθεσις της Κεντρικής Επιτροπής Διαπιστώσεως Ωμοτήτων εν Κρήτη. Σύνταξις 29/6 – 6/8/1945. Έκδοση Δήμου Ηρακλείου, 1983.
^ Psychoundakis, George. The Cretan Runner: His Story of the German Occupation, John Murray Ltd, 1955. The Folio Society, 2009. pp 177–178
^ "History of the United Nations War Crimes Commission and the Development of the Laws of War. United Nations War Crimes Commission. London: HMSO, 1948". Archived from the original on 2012-04-01. Retrieved 2010-12-22.
External links[edit]
Viannos Museum of National Resistance Archived 2016-04-14 at the Wayback Machine
Ο μαύρος Σεπτέμβρης του 1943 στα χωριά της δυτικής Ιεράπετρας, Γ. Χρηστάκης, Ομιλία στο Δήμο Ιεράπετρας 7/9/2007
Μαύρη Βίβλος της Κατοχής
--
Schwarzbuches der Besatzung
p. 109
Memories from the holocaust of Ierapetras western villages
Amiras war memorial
German occupation of Crete: Viannos (in German -- translate)
Wikimedia Commons has media related to 1943 in Viannos.
vteGreece during World War II1940–1941 Balkans CampaignGreco-Italian War(1940–1941)Battles
Pindus
Elaia–Kalamas
Korçë
Saranda
Morava–Ivan
Himara
Klisura Pass
Trebeshina
Italian spring offensive
Hill 731
Leaders Greece
Ioannis Metaxas
Alexandros Papagos
Charalambos Katsimitros
Konstantinos Davakis
Markos Drakos and Ioannis Pitsikas
Dimitrios Papadopoulos
Georgios Kosmas
Italy
Benito Mussolini
Galeazzo Ciano
Sebastiano Visconti Prasca
Ubaldo Soddu
Ugo Cavallero
Carlo Geloso
Units Greece
8th Infantry Division
Epirus Army Section
Western Macedonia Army Section
Italy
9th Army
11th Army
German invasion(April–May 1941)Battles
Operation Lustre
Metaxas Line
Vevi
Kleisoura Pass
Thermopylae
Crete
Leaders Greece
King George II
Alexandros Papagos
Konstantinos Bakopoulos
Georgios Tsolakoglou
British Commonwealth
Henry Maitland Wilson
Thomas Blamey
Bernard Freyberg
Germany
Wilhelm List
Sepp Dietrich
Kurt Student
Units Greece
Eastern Macedonia Army Section
Central Macedonia Army Section
Epirus Army Section
British Commonwealth
1st Armoured Brigade
2nd New Zealand Division
6th Australian Division
Germany
XVIII Army Corps
XXXX Panzer Corps
Luftflotte 4
1st Parachute Division
5th Mountain Division
Occupation and collaborationOccupyingpowersLeaders andcommands Germany
Günther Altenburg
Hermann Neubacher
Walter Schimana
Alexander Löhr
Army Group E
Hellmuth Felmy
LXVIII Army Corps
Hubert Lanz
XXII Mountain Corps
Alexander Andrae, Bruno Bräuer and Friedrich-Wilhelm Müller
Fortress Crete
Max Merten
Italy
Angelico Carta
Pellegrino Ghigi
Piero Parini
Carlo Geloso and Carlo Vecchiarelli
11th Army
III Army Corps [it]
VIII Army Corps
XXVI Corps
Bulgaria
Ivan Markov [bg]
Trifon Trifonov [bg]
Asen Sirakov
Atrocities
Missiria
Kondomari
Kandanos
Alikianos
Doxato
Mousiotitsa
Kommeno
Kalavryta
Lingiades
Distomo
Domenikon
Drakeia
Cephalonia (Acqui Division)
Mesovouno
Pyrgoi
Vorizia
Viannos
Kallikratis
Kali Sykia
Anogeia
Kedros
Kleisoura
Haidari concentration camp
Larissa concentration camp
200 of Kaisariani
Chortiatis
Economicexploitation
Great Famine
GWRA
Hyperinflation
DEGRIGES
Compulsory loan
Occupation Reichsmark [el]
The Holocaust
Bulgarian-occupied Greece
Thessaloniki
Zvi Koretz
Jewish cemetery of Salonica
Baron Hirsch ghetto
Expropriation of property
Rescue of the Jews of Zakynthos
CollaborationistgovernmentPeople
Georgios Tsolakoglou
K. Logothetopoulos
Ioannis Rallis
Sotirios Gotzamanis
Georgios Bakos
Georgios Poulos
Friedrich Schubert
Nikolaos Bourantas
George S. Mercouris
Ioannis Plytzanopoulos
Dionysios Papadongonas
Organizations
Security Battalions
Hellenic Socialist Patriotic Organisation (ESPO)
National Union of Greece (EEE)
Greek National Socialist Party
Secessionists
Roman Legion
Alcibiades Diamandi
Nicolaos Matussis
Vassilis Rapotikas
Ohrana
Andon Kalchev
Cham collaboration
Këshilla
Xhemil Dino
Atrocities
Paramythia
Executions of Kokkinia
Resistance and Free GreeceNational LiberationFront (EAM)People
Aris Velouchiotis
Stefanos Sarafis
Andreas Tzimas
Georgios Siantos
Alexandros Svolos
Ilias Tsirimokos
Markos Vafeiadis
Evripidis Bakirtzis
Organizations
Communist Party of Greece (KKE)
Socialist Party of Greece (SKE)
Union of People's Democracy (ELD)
Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS)
Greek People's Liberation Navy (ELAN)
Political Committee of National Liberation (PEEA) and National Council
United Panhellenic Organization of Youth (EPON)
National Solidarity (EA)
Organization for the Protection of the People's Struggle (OPLA)
Slavic-Macedonian National Liberation Front (SNOF)
Anti-Fascist Committee for a Free Germany (AKFD)
Operations
Drama uprising
Ryka
Mikro Chorio
Gorgopotamos Bridge
Meritsa
Protests against labour mobilization
Fardykambos
Porta
Sarantaporos
Kournovo Tunnel
1943 Athens protest
Pinerolo disarmament
Steiri
Agorelitsa
Killing of Franz Krech
Atrocities
Feneos executions
5/42 Regiment dissolution
Meligalas
Kilkis
Red Terror (Greece)
Non-EAM resistancePeople
Napoleon Zervas
Georgios Kartalis
Dimitrios Psarros
Komninos Pyromaglou
Antonis Fosteridis
Kostas Perrikos
Ilias Degiannis
Vasileios Sachinis
Lela Karagianni
Konstantinos Ventiris
Manolis Paterakis
Petrakogiorgis
Kimonas Zografakis
Organizations
National Republican Greek League (EDES)
National Bands of Greek Guerrillas (EOEA)
National and Social Liberation (EKKA)
5/42 Regiment
Defenders of Northern Greece (YVE)/Panhellenic Liberation Organization (PAO)
Panhellenic Union of Fighting Youths (PEAN)
Prometheus II
Apollo
National Organization of Crete (ΕΟΚ)
Hellenic Army (ES)
Northern Epirus Liberation Front (MAVI)
others...
Operations
ESPO bombing
Gorgopotamos Bridge (Operation "Harling")
Agia Kyriaki
Milia
Skala Paramythias
Execution of Josef Salminger
Xirovouni
Trahili
Menina
Dodona
Atrocities
Expulsion of Cham Albanians
British Military Mission (SOE)People
Eddie Myers
Monty Woodhouse
Patrick Leigh Fermor
Bill Stanley Moss
Themis Marinos
George Psychoundakis
Jerzy Iwanow-Szajnowicz
Operations
Operation "Albumen"
Gorgopotamos Bridge (Operation "Harling")
Operation "Animals"
Asopos Bridge (Operation "Washing")
Kidnapping of Heinrich Kreipe
Damasta sabotage
Greek government-in-exileGreek governmentin exileEvents/Battles
Mareth Line
El Alamein
Wadi Akarit
Dodecanese
April 1944 mutiny
Rimini
Symi
Santorini
People
King George II
Emmanouil Tsouderos
Sofoklis Venizelos
Panagiotis Kanellopoulos
Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos
Christodoulos Tsigantes
Pafsanias Katsotas
Greek Armed Forcesin the Middle East
3rd Mountain Brigade
Sacred Band
Vasilissa Olga
Adrias
Katsonis
Papanikolis
Squadrons
13th
335th
336th
Liberation and road to the civil warPrelude to Civil WarEvents
National Bands Agreement
Plaka agreement [el]
Red Terror
Lebanon Conference
Caserta Agreement
Operation "Manna"
Percentages agreement
Dekemvriana
Treaty of Varkiza
White Terror
People
Ronald Scobie
Georgios Papandreou
Archbishop Damaskinos
Georgios Grivas
Angelos Evert
Nikos Zachariadis
CommemorationEvents
Ohi Day
Museums
Athens War Museum
Holocaust Museum of Greece
Kalavryta Massacre Museum
Kalpaki War Museum
Museum of the Battle of Crete and the National Resistance
Thessaloniki War Museum
Popular culture
Aera! Aera! Aera!
Captain Corelli's Mandolin
film
Ill Met by Moonlight
film
Ipolochagos Natassa
Mediterraneo
The 11th Day: Crete 1941
The Guns of Navarone
film
What Did You Do in the War, Thanasis?
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Viannos_massacres&oldid=1311224988"
Categories: 1943 murders in GreeceMassacres in 19431943 firesSeptember 1943 in Europe1940s fires in EuropeArson in the 1940sNazi war crimes in GreeceViannosMassacres in Greece during World War IICrete in World War IIViolence against men in GreeceWar crimes of the WehrmachtLooting in GreeceArson in GreeceArt theft and looting during World War IINazi lootingHidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasArticles with short descriptionShort description with empty Wikidata descriptionInfobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on WikidataCoordinates on WikidataArticles containing Greek-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2019Webarchive template wayback linksCommons category link is locally definedPages using the Kartographer extension
This page was last edited on 14 September 2025, at 04:18 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Viannos massacres
6 languages
Add topic