VisionGen - DEV Community
Forem Feed
Follow new Subforems to improve your feed
DEV Community
Follow
A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Gamers Forem
Follow
An inclusive community for gaming enthusiasts
Future
Follow
News and discussion of science and technology such as AI, VR, cryptocurrency, quantum computing, and more.
Music Forem
Follow
From composing and gigging to gear, hot music takes, and everything in between.
DUMB DEV Community
Follow
Memes and software development shitposting
Vibe Coding Forem
Follow
Discussing AI software development, and showing off what we're building.
Popcorn Movies and TV
Follow
Movie and TV enthusiasm, criticism and everything in-between.
Design Community
Follow
Web design, graphic design and everything in-between
Maker Forem
Follow
A community for makers, hobbyists, and professionals to discuss Arduino, Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, and much more.
Scale Forem
Follow
For engineers building software at scale. We discuss architecture, cloud-native, and SRE—the hard-won lessons you can't just Google
Forem Core
Follow
Discussing the core forem open source software project — features, bugs, performance, self-hosting.
Crypto Forem
Follow
A collaborative community for all things Crypto—from Bitcoin to protocol development and DeFi to NFTs and market analysis.
Security Forem
Follow
Your central hub for all things security. From ethical hacking and CTFs to GRC and career development, for beginners and pros alike
Dropdown menu
Dropdown menu
Skip to content
Navigation menu
Search
Powered by Algolia
Search
Log in
Create account
DEV Community
Close
Add reaction
Like
Unicorn
Exploding Head
Raised Hands
Fire
Jump to Comments
Save
Boost
More...
Moderate
Copy link
Copy link
Copied to Clipboard
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Facebook
Share to Mastodon
Report Abuse
Nadine
Posted on Sep 13
VisionGen
#devchallenge
#googleaichallenge
#ai
#gemini
This is a submission for the Google AI Studio Multimodal Challenge
What I Built
VisionGen is a next-gen tool for "Video-to-Video" generation. Because prompting does not often give you the results you want, I cooked up an a-la-carte JSON prompting applet. It automates prompt generation for the most accurate results.
The applet resolves time-consuming video annotation by automating object detection, tracking, and scene segmentation with precision. This is useful for computer vision training but skips the training process to provide an immediate practical use: creating new videos from a reference.
This helps you "get it right the first time," because if a generated video isn't what you want, and you have to regenerate it, you pay for both attempts. This is why VisionGen is designed to increase the chances of getting the perfect video on the first try.
Demo
VisionGen
Video Analysis Features
Consistent Object Tracking → Increase confidence threshold if objects are missed.
Bounding Boxes → With object classes that can be filtered or excluded.
Contextual Descriptions → Can be edited or modified for final output.
Transcriptions → Provides temporal cues based on timestamps.
Timeline Visualization → Jump to a specific moment in the video by clicking on the text.
Scene Segmentation → Automatic detection of scene changes and storyline
Screenshots → The secret hidden ingredient exclusive to VisionGen's workflow.
Multimodal Features
🎥 Video Understanding and Generation
Gemini is used to understand temporal relationships and object movements. It generates a coherent video that maintains object consistency and follows the narrative provided.
🔍 Object Tracking with Occlusion Handling
Maintains consistent object IDs throughout videos, even when objects are:
Temporarily occluded (hidden behind other objects)
Partially visible
Leaving and re-entering the frame
The model interpolates positions based on trajectory before and after occlusions, ensuring continuous tracking.
🎬 Scene Segmentation
The AI identifies distinct scene changes with precise timestamps and descriptions, enabling users to understand the overall structure quickly.
⚙️ Configurable Analysis Parameters
Users can customize analysis settings to balance detail and processing speed:
Confidence Threshold: Filter out lower-confidence detections.
Frame Rate: Control analysis granularity for different video lengths.
Time Range Focusing: Analyze specific segments of longer videos.
Add/Remove Audio: Optional audio for balancing cost or to overlay your own audio.
How I Used Google AI Studio
Built entirely using Google AI Studio:
Gemini 2.5 Flash Integration: for video understanding to analyze uploaded files frame-by-frame, extracting detailed annotations and creating a narrative.
(default) veo-2.0-generate-001 endpoint: the applet is designed to be model-agnostic and has 2 endpoints configured, including veo-3-fast-generate-preview.
GoogleGenAI SDK: for communication with the Gemini and Veo APIs using structured prompts for both analysis and generation.
Cloud Run Deployment: for a scalable, secure deployment.
The application is designed to communicate with Google's models, inluding Veo, directly from the browser using the official @google/genai JavaScript SDK.
How it works
1. Standard JSON Prompting:
JSON Prompt Generation: automatically transforms the video analysis data into a structured, narrative JSON prompt, ready for video generation.
The standard feature of the applet is interactive video generation, allowing users to review and, if needed, edit the AI-generated script before creating a new video using a selected model.
✨ 2. Advanced JSON Prompting:
The JSON prompt was upgraded to collect data from the video analysis and generate the intermediate requirements to form an a-la-carte JSON prompt, including:
model
prompt
negative prompt
seed
keyframes (screenshots)
transcription
This new JSON prompt includes a narrative, excluded objects (negative prompts), keyframes from the source video, and transcription data to guide the AI with maximum context from the original video to enhance the final output's adherence to your vision.
Why JSON Prompts?
The raw Video Analysis data is spreadsheet of disconnected facts:
timestamp: 1.2s, object: 'car', bbox: [...]
timestamp: 1.3s, object: 'person', bbox: [...]
timestamp: 1.4s, object: 'car', bbox: [...]
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
generateNarrativeForVideo uses the Gemini text model to act as a "scriptwriter." We ask it to convert the raw data into a structured an array of NarrativePoint objects.
{
"model": "veo-3.0-fast-generate-preview",
"prompt": "Joker appears from the right side of the frame...",
"negativePrompt": "...",
"seed": 94272,
"keyframes": [
{
"timestamp": 44.4,
"image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,/9j/4AAQSkZJRgABAQ..." // The very long Base64 string
},
{
"timestamp": 48,
"image": "data:image/jpeg;base64,/9j/2wBDAAYEBQYFBAY..." // Another very long string
},
]
"transcription": "[29.47s - 30.07s] Hey Arthur..."
}
Enter fullscreen mode
Exit fullscreen mode
This JSON array acts as a chronological shot list or a script. It forces the AI to organize the chaotic events (and use the video as reference for a new video).
☭ Division of Labor works Better Together
1. Seeding
What is seeding and why is it included in the metadata?
The prompt is the destination, and the seed provides the path the AI takes to get there.
Seeding is for consistency. It creates a reference value assigned to a prompt to ensure the model adheres to specific details in the reference data. It is used to reproduce the same output each time, even with minor prompt variations, by following the same "path."
If you can predict the result, you can manipulate small details of the narrative. For example, you can add, remove, or modify a prompt's details, like the color of a car, without unintentionally changing the car type or the direction it's driving in.
📸 Chaining
One API call to a model like Veo generates an 8-second video segment. Each API call requires a new prompt and generates a new frame, which can result in broken context.
Solution: We use a screenshot as a Base64-encoded 'last frame' from the previous step. The new prompt describes what should happen next, continuing from the screenshot.
This approach grounds the AI, forcing it to adopt the original video's color palette, lighting, object style, and composition. This process eliminates ambiguity and is the single most important addition for consistency.
This process can be repeated infinitely or for as many segments as you need to create your desired video length.
📊 Export Formats:
YOLO Format: Optimized for object detection model training.
COCO JSON: Compatible with popular computer vision frameworks.
A-la-carte JSON: A detailed JSON file with scripts and keyframes.
Persistent Storage: All metadata is saved locally along with the analysis, so it will be restored when you load a project from your history.
To use the applet and generate videos Bring-Your-Own-API Key: update in Settings. Your API key is safely saved on your own web browser using localStorage.
Top comments (0)
Subscribe
Personal
Trusted User
Create template
Templates let you quickly answer FAQs or store snippets for re-use.
Submit
Preview
Dismiss
Code of Conduct
•
Report abuse
Are you sure you want to hide this comment? It will become hidden in your post, but will still be visible via the comment's permalink.
Hide child comments as well
Confirm
For further actions, you may consider blocking this person and/or reporting abuse
Nadine
Follow
Education
BA, BSc, AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner
Work
Freelancer, Project-based
Joined
May 31, 2025
More from Nadine
FieldCraft
#ui
#opensource
#ai
#react
Dropship AI Agent
#devchallenge
#n8nbrightdatachallenge
#ai
#webdev
Lexis Link
#redischallenge
#devchallenge
#database
#ai
💎 DEV Diamond Sponsors
Thank you to our Diamond Sponsors for supporting the DEV Community
Google AI is the official AI Model and Platform Partner of DEV
Neon is the official database partner of DEV
Algolia is the official search partner of DEV
DEV Community — A space to discuss and keep up software development and manage your software career
Home
DEV++
Podcasts
Videos
Tags
DEV Education Tracks
DEV Challenges
DEV Help
Advertise on DEV
DEV Showcase
About
Contact
Free Postgres Database
Software comparisons
Forem Shop
Code of Conduct
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Built on Forem — the open source software that powers DEV and other inclusive communities.
Made with love and Ruby on Rails. DEV Community © 2016 - 2025.
We're a place where coders share, stay up-to-date and grow their careers.
Log in
Create account