Make Tech Easier - Computer Tutorials, Tips and Tricks
Computing
Mobile
Lifestyle
PC Guides
Reviews
Tech Explained
Search
Computing
Windows
Linux
Mac
ChromeOS
Mobile
Android
iOS
Lifestyle
Gadgets
Productivity
Smart Home
Social Media
Gaming
Internet
Tech Explained
News
More from us
Reviews
Cheatsheets
Buying Guides
Deals
Newsletter
How to Create Stickers with Google Photos on iPhone
Want to know how to create stickers on iPhone? There’s a new, easy method using Google Photos, and you can learn all about it in this post.
Workarounds to Beat the Google Gemini 5 Prompt Cap
How to Integrate and Use Docker in VS Code
X’s New Encrypted Messaging: Smart Move or Security Mirage?
How to Fix “Don’t Cover The Earphone Area” Message on Android
How to Recognize Grokking On X and Avoid Being the Next Victim
Do you always trust Grok? Find out about Grokking and how to avoid becoming the next victim just from asking Grok about an ad.
By Crystal Crowder – Sep 13, 2025
Quickly Find All Your YouTube TV Sports With Roku Sports Zone
If you have a Roku device, you can now quickly find current and upcoming YouTube TV sports directly on Roku Sports Zone.
By Crystal Crowder – Sep 12, 2025
Spotify’s Lossless Audio Isn’t for Casual Listeners, And That’s the Problem
Spotify lossless audio is here, but casual listeners may not notice.
By Henderson Jayden Harper – Sep 12, 2025
Steam Wants to Access the Windows Kernel: Why and Is It Safe?
Steam now wants access to the Windows Kernel. Before you blindly give access, make sure you know the risks.
By Crystal Crowder – Sep 11, 2025
Latest Reviews
Listen to Old Music with a Majority Moto Bluetooth Turntable
Sep 4, 2025
Monitor Inside and Out With the OMBAR T1 4K Dash Cam
Sep 2, 2025
Use the Sainlogic SA1 Weather Station for 1-Stop Information
Aug 14, 2025
Arzopa Z1FC Portable Monitor Brings More Productivity to the Brand
Jul 28, 2025
Oleap Archer AI Meeting Headset Takes the Work Out of Meetings
Jul 24, 2025
Relax and Let the YARDCARE Robotic Lawnmower Do the Work
Jul 10, 2025
More Reviews >
Subscribe to our newsletter!
Our latest tutorials delivered straight to your inbox
Sign up for all newsletters.
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. We will not share your data and you can unsubscribe at any time.
Subscribe
How to Completely Reset Microsoft Edge
Having trouble with Microsoft Edge? Follow this practical guide to reset Microsoft Edge properly and refresh your browsing experience.
By Karrar Haider – Sep 11, 2025
How to Create Stickers with Google Photos on iPhone
There’s a fun new option to turn your favorite photos into custom stickers.
By Alexandra Arici – Sep 10, 2025
Workarounds to Beat the Google Gemini 5 Prompt Cap
Google is making Gemini almost unusable for even casual users.
By Crystal Crowder – Sep 10, 2025
How to Integrate and Use Docker in VS Code
By integrating Docker into Visual Studio Code, you can easily manage your containers right in VS Code.
By Anees Asghar – Sep 10, 2025
X’s New Encrypted Messaging: Smart Move or Security Mirage?
Let’s take a closer look at X’s take on end-to-end encryption and weigh up whether it’s worth using.
By Alexandra Arici – Sep 9, 2025
How to Fix “Don’t Cover The Earphone Area” Message on Android
If you are seeing this message, it means something isn’t right because this message should only appear when your phone is in your pocket.
By Karrar Haider – Sep 9, 2025
Brokewell Malware Now Spreading Through Facebook Ads – How to Keep It Off Your Phone
A newly discovered malware is lurking in the Facebook ads you scroll past every day. Here’s what you need to know about this hidden danger.
By Alexandra Arici – Sep 8, 2025
Turn Your Terminal Into a Shareable Web Page With ttyd
With the ttyd command line tool, you can transform your terminal into a live, interactive web app that anyone can access with a link.
By Haroon Javed – Sep 8, 2025
AI Browsers Are a Security Nightmare, and I Am Done Pretending They’re Not
AI browsers promise convenience but risk exposing your most sensitive data to misuse and security threats.
By Anurag – Sep 8, 2025
RCS Messaging on iPhone – Here’s What You Should Know
Here’s a straightforward guide to enable RCS messaging on iPhone, its upsides, its flaws, and what it really means for everyday texting.
By Henderson Jayden Harper – Sep 7, 2025
How to Create and Use an Instagram Avatar
Discover how to create an Instagram avatar based on your own appearance, then turn it into fun avatar stickers with our step-by-step guide.
By Alexandra Arici – Sep 6, 2025
Cursor As an AI Coding Assistant – Is It Worth Using?
Cursor is an AI-powered editor built on top of Visual Studio Code. Is it worth using> Let’s find out.
By Anees Asghar – Sep 5, 2025
How to Listen to Articles from Chrome
Google now lets you listen to articles directly from Chrome and allowing you to multitask.
By Alexandra Arici – Sep 5, 2025
Spotify’s In-App Messages Returns: Memorable, but Irrelevant?
The Spotify Messages promising an easier way to share music with friends. I can’t help wondering if it’s just another inbox to ignore.
By Henderson Jayden Harper – Sep 5, 2025
Listen to Old Music with a Majority Moto Bluetooth Turntable
Looking for a way to play your old vinyl records on your modern devices? Find out more about the Majority Moto Bluetooth Table in this review.
By Laura Tucker – Sep 4, 2025
Here’s How to Create an Android Bot Version of Yourself with Androidify
This new version Androidify takes things to the next level by leveraging the power of AI.
By Alexandra Arici – Sep 4, 2025
Next >
Latest Deals
Best Smart Home Device Deals
Best Wearable Tech Deals
Best Headphone Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Smartphone Deals
More Deals >
Affiliate Disclosure: Make Tech Easier may earn commission on products purchased through our links, which supports the work we do for our readers.
Uncomplicating the complicated, making life easier
Make Tech Easier provides tech tutorials, reviews, tips and tricks to help you navigate the complicated world of technology. We aim to uncomplicate the complicated, making your life easier.
About
Contact
Advertise
Editorial Guidelines
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
RSS Feed Terms
© 2025 Uqnic Network Pte Ltd. All rights reserved.