You Can Win a Trip to Experience Universal Halloween Horror Nights! - IGNFocus ResetSkip to contentIGN PlusHomeSearchReviewsNewsGuidesInteractive MapsPlaylistDiscoverStoreRewardsVideosPrivacy PolicyTerms of UseMoreSite ThemesChange RegionAfrica (opens in a new window)AdriaAustralia (opens in a new window)Benelux (opens in a new window)Brazil (opens in a new window)Canada (opens in a new window)China (opens in a new window)Czech / Slovakia (opens in a new window)France (opens in a new window)Germany (opens in a new window)Greece (opens in a new window)Hungary (opens in a new window)India (opens in a new window)Ireland (opens in a new window)Israel (opens in a new window)Italy (opens in a new window)Japan (opens in a new window)Latin AmericaMiddle East - EnglishMiddle East - ArabicNordicPakistan (opens in a new window)Poland (opens in a new window)Portugal (opens in a new window)Romania (opens in a new window)Southeast AsiaSpain (opens in a new window)Turkey (opens in a new window)United Kingdom (opens in a new window)United States (opens in a new window)MoreIGN on socialSite ThemesChange RegionAbout UsAccessibilityAdChoicesEditorial StandardsDo Not Sell My Personal InformationSite MapBoardsContact SupportAdvertise With IGN©2025 IGN a brand of IGN Entertainment, Inc. All Rights Reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner’s permission. IGN® and IGN Entertainment are trademarks or registered trademarks of IGN Entertainment, Inc.NewsAll NewsColumnsPlayStationXboxNintendoPCMobileMoviesTelevisionComicsTechReviewsAll ReviewsEditor's ChoiceGame ReviewsMovie ReviewsTV Show ReviewsTech ReviewsDiscoverVideosOriginal ShowsPopularTrailersGameplayAll VideosAccountProfileLogin SettingsSubscriptionNewsletters20Q #XX: undefinedRegister to keep your streakCreate a free account or Log in.Try to guess the video game: In the input field, type a question that could be answered "yes" or "no". You can ask up to 20 questions before the game is over.Quick tips to help you guess the answer fasterStick to questions that will be answered with “yes” or “no”Any questions that you ask will count as part of your 20 questionsTry to guess the game with as few questions as possibleGet an ad-free experience with IGN Plus and gain access to all previous gamesREWARD ENDSOpen09.14.2025 at 7:00PMNever Go AloneYou Can Win a Trip to Experience Universal Halloween Horror Nights!EnterShareAboutIGN Rewards is partnering with Universal to give IGN Readers a chance to win a theme park vacation to either Universal Studios Hollywood or Universal Orlando Resort to experience the Fallout haunted house at Halloween Horror Nights. Face your fears in post-apocalyptic LA. You’ll be attacked by raiders alongside Lucy. You’ll confront the bounty hunter, The Ghoul. You’ll even encounter Maximus with the Brotherhood of Steel. Fallout is one of the haunted houses for the 2025 event. Prizes:1 Grand Prize Winner: You could win a 2-night trip for 2 to UNIVERSAL STUDIOS HOLLYWOOD including: (Value: $2,932.00)Round trip airfare to Los Angeles, CaliforniaGround transportation between the airport and hotel in Los AngelesAccommodations at the Sheraton Universal HotelAdmission to Universal Studios Hollywood theme park1-night 2025 or 2026 Halloween Horror Nights General Admission Tickets*ORYou could win a 3-night trip for 2 to UNIVERSAL ORLANDO RESORT including: (Value: $3,081.54)Round trip airfare to Orlando, FloridaGround transportation between the airport and hotel in OrlandoAccommodations at Universal Cabana Bay Beach ResortAdmission to both Universal Studios Florida and Universal Islands of Adventure theme parks, plus Universal Volcano Bay water theme park1-night 2025 or 2026 Halloween Horror Nights General Admission Tickets* *Travel must occur during the 2025 or 2026 Halloween Horror Nights event dates or that portion of the prize package is forfeited.WARNING: EVENT MAY BE TOO INTENSE FOR YOUNG CHILDREN AND IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF 13. COSTUMES SUBJECT TO COSTUME POLICY. NO COSTUME MASKS ALLOWED.
Halloween Horror Nights is a separately ticketed event. Event occurs rain or shine. No rain checks, returns or refunds. Prices, dates, times, attractions, entertainment, and/or experience details are subject to availability, changes and/or cancellation without notice. Parks, attractions, entertainment, or access to events may be restricted or unavailable due to capacity/closures/other factors and benefits are subject to change without notice. Parking fees and other restrictions may apply. Universal elements and all related indicia TM & © 2025 Universal Studios. All rights reserved.©/2025 ZeniMax© 2025 Amazon Content Services LLC Universal elements and all related indicia TM & © 2025 Universal Studios. All rights reserved.InstructionsThis sweepstakes is open to United States Residents onlyMake sure you are a registered IGN User and you are logged into your account.Hit Enter.Cross your fingers and tell a friend.More to exploreSee all rewardsWin a Custom Delta Force x Alienware 16 Aurora Gaming LaptopYou Can Win a Trip to Experience Universal Halloween Horror Nights!IGN Deals: Win a Switch 2 + Mario Kart World Bundle!Save 10% At IGN StoreTerms & ConditionsOFFICIAL SWEEPSTAKES RULES NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. A PURCHASE WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED. You Can Win a Trip to Experience Universal’s Halloween Horror Nights! Sweepstakes (the “Sweepstakes”) is governed by these official rules (the “Sweepstakes Rules”). The Sweepstakes begins on September 1, 2025 at 12:00 PM PST and ends on September 14, 2025 at 12:00 PM PST (the “Sweepstakes Period”).SPONSOR: IGN Entertainment, Inc., with an address of 2231 S. Barrington Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90064 (the “Sponsor”). ELIGIBILITY: This Sweepstakes is open to individuals who are eighteen (18) years of age or older at the time of entry who are legal residents of the fifty (50) United States of America or the District of Columbia. By entering the Sweepstakes as described in these Sweepstakes Rules, entrants represent and warrant that they are complying with these Sweepstakes Rules (including, without limitation, all eligibility requirements), and that they agree to abide by and be bound by all the rules and terms and conditions stated herein and all decisions of Sponsor, which shall be final and binding. All previous winners of any sweepstakes sponsored by Sponsor during the nine (9) month period prior to the Selection Date are not eligible to enter. Any individuals (including, but not limited to, employees, consultants, independent contractors and interns) who have, within the past six (6) months, held employment with or performed services for Sponsor or any organizations affiliated with the sponsorship, fulfillment, administration, prize support, advertisement or promotion of the Sweepstakes (“Employees”) are not eligible to enter or win. Immediate Family Members and Household Members are also not eligible to enter or win. “Immediate Family Members” means parents, step-parents, legal guardians, children, step-children, siblings, step-siblings, or spouses of an Employee. “Household Members” means those individuals who share the same residence with an Employee at least three (3) months a year.
HOW TO ENTER: To enter the Sweepstakes, go to https://www.ign.com/rewards/you-can-win-a-trip-to-experience-universals-halloween-horror-nights and complete the entry form. Subsequent attempts made by the same individual to submit multiple entries by using multiple accounts or otherwise may result in disqualification of the entrant. Only contributions submitted during the Sweepstakes Period will be eligible for entry into the Sweepstakes. No other methods of entry will be accepted. All entries become the property of Sponsor and will not be returned. Entries are limited to individuals only; commercial enterprises and business entities are not eligible. Use of a false account will disqualify an entry. Sponsor is not responsible for entries not received due to difficulty accessing the internet, service outage or delays, computer difficulties and other technological problems.Entries are subject to any applicable restrictions or eligibility requirements listed herein. Entries will be deemed to have been made by the authorized account holder of the email or telephone phone number submitted at the time of entry and qualification. Multiple participants are not permitted to share the same email address. Should multiple users of the same e-mail account or mobile phone number, as applicable, enter the Sweepstakes and a dispute thereafter arises regarding the identity of the entrant, the Authorized Account Holder of said e-mail account or mobile phone account at the time of entry will be considered the entrant. “Authorized Account Holder” is defined as the natural person who is assigned an e-mail address or mobile phone number by an Internet access provider, on-line service provider, telephone service provider or other organization which is responsible for assigned e-mail addresses, phone numbers or the domain associated with the submitted e-mail address. Proof of submission of an entry shall not be deemed proof of receipt by the website administrator for online entries. When applicable, the website administrator’s computer will be deemed the official time keeping device for the Sweepstakes promotion. Entries will be disqualified if found to be incomplete and/or if Sponsor determines, in its sole discretion, that multiple entries were submitted by the same entrant in violation of the Sweepstakes Rules. WINNER SELECTION AND NOTIFICATION: Sponsor shall select the prize winner(s) (collectively, the “Winner”) on or about September 15, 2025 (“Selection Date”) by random drawing or other randomized process from among all eligible entries. The Winner will be notified via the email address provided in the entry form. Notification of the Winner shall be deemed to have occurred immediately upon sending of the notification by Sponsor. Selected winner(s) will be required to respond (as directed) to the notification within 3 business days of attempted notification. The only entries that will be considered eligible entries are entries received by Sponsor within the Sweepstakes Period. The odds of winning depend on the number of eligible entries received. The Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to choose only two (2) alternative winners in the event that that a possible winner has been disqualified, fails to respond timely to the notification, or is deemed ineligible for any reason. In the case the alternate winners are also disqualified, fail to respond timely to the notification, or are deemed ineligible for any reason, IGN shall not be obligated to pick any further alternate winners for the Sweepstakes and the prize(s) shall remain un-awarded.PRIZE: One (1) Grand Prize winner will receive a trip to Winner’s choice of the following destinations (collectively, the “Grand Prize”):-	You could win a 2-night trip for two (2) people to UNIVERSAL STUDIOS HOLLYWOOD (the “USH Prize”), valued at approximately two thousand nine hundred thirty-two dollars ($2,932.00), to include the following:-	Round trip airfare to Los Angeles, California* for up to two (2) people from the major airport closest to Winner’s home (as determined by USH in its sole discretion). Winner will be responsible for ground transportation to/from the airport at point of origin;-	Ground transportation between the airport and hotel in Los Angeles;-	Accommodations, room and tax only, for up to two (2) people in a maximum of one (1) room at the Sheraton Universal Hotel (or another hotel selected by USH in its sole discretion) for three (3) days and two (2) nights. Hotel accommodations do not include meals, incidentals, tips, telephone calls, or any other personal expenses incurred during the trip, not specified here;-	Admission to Universal Studios Hollywood theme park; and-	1-night 2025 or 2026 Halloween Horror Nights General Admission Tickets*.* For a winner who is a California resident and selects the USH Prize, air transportation may be substituted with another method of transportation by Universal Studios Hollywood in its sole discretion.OR-	You could win a 4-night trip for 2 to UNIVERSAL ORLANDO RESORT (the “UO Prize”), valued at approximately three thousand eighty-one dollars and fifty-four cents ($3,081.54), to include the following:-	Round trip airfare to Orlando, Florida** for up to two (2) people from the major airport closest to Winner’s home (as determined by UO in its sole discretion). Winner will be responsible for ground transportation to/from the airport at point of origin. ;-	Ground transportation between the airport and hotel in Orlando;-	Accommodations, room and tax only, for up to two (2) people in a maximum of one (1) room at Terra Luna Resort
(or another Universal Orlando Resort hotel selected by UO in its sole discretion) for four (4) days and three (3) nights. Hotel accommodations do not include meals, incidentals, tips, telephone calls, or any other personal expenses incurred during the trip, not specified here;-	Admission to Universal Studios Florida and Universal Islands of Adventure theme parks, Universal Volcano Bay water theme park, plus one (1) day admission to Universal Epic Universe and -	1-night 2025 or 2026 Halloween Horror Nights General Admission Tickets*.** For a winner who is a Florida resident and selects the UO Prize, air transportation may be substituted with another method of transportation by Universal Orlando in its sole discretion.No more than the stated number of prize(s) will be awarded, and all prize(s) listed above will be awarded. Actual retail value of the Prize may vary due to market conditions. The difference in value of the Prize as stated above and value at time of notification of the Winner, if any, will not be awarded. No cash or prize substitution is permitted, except at the discretion of Sponsor. The Prize is non-transferrable. If the Prize cannot be awarded due to circumstances beyond the control of Sponsor, a substitute Prize and/or cash value of equal or greater retail value will be awarded; provided, however, that if a Prize is awarded but remains unclaimed or is forfeited by the Winner, the Prize may not be re-awarded, in Sponsor’s sole discretion. In the event that more than the stated number of prize(s) becomes available for any reason, Sponsor reserves the right to award only the stated number of prize(s) by a random drawing among all legitimate, un-awarded, eligible prize claims.Winner’s travel period must coincide with either the 2025 or 2026 Halloween Horror Nights event dates in order to partake in the Halloween Horror Nights portion of the Prize. 2025 event dates occur on select dates between August 29th – November 2rd for Universal Orlando Resort and September 4th – November 2d for Universal Studios Hollywood. 2026 event dates are currently to be determined.
Winner may choose to travel at another time (with Universal approval) provided such travel must be completed by November 2, 2026 and with the understanding that in doing so, Winner will forfeit the Halloween Horror Nights element of the Prize. If the Winner is unable to complete travel within the above travel period, the Prize will be forfeited in its entirety and no further or alternative compensation will be provided. Travel dates and arrangements are subject to air travel, holiday, blackout dates, and other prize and travel restrictions. Travel dates are subject to Universal and Sponsor approval. Reservations are subject to availability. Trip must be booked at least sixty (60) days prior to intended departure date. If Winner elects to partake in any or all portions of his/her Prize with no Guest, the Prize will be awarded to Winner only and any remainder of the Prize will be forfeited and shall not be subject to further or alternative compensation. All elements of the Prize must be redeemed at the same time, and no changes will be permitted after confirmation of any redemption. If Winner is between the ages of eighteen (18) and twenty-one (21), he/she must be accompanied by an adult of at least twenty-one (21) years of age in order to check into the hotel. Unless child or ward of Winner, Guest must be eighteen (18) years of age or older as of the date of departure and must travel on the same itinerary and at the same time as the Winner.
Warning: The Halloween Horror Nights event may be too intense for young children and is not recommended for children under the age of thirteen (13). No costumes or costume masks allowed. Event occurs rain or shine.
FMV of Prize may vary depending upon the points of departure, ground transportation, and/or airline fare fluctuations; any difference between stated FMV and final FMV of Prize will not be awarded. Prize consists only of the elements expressly set forth above; no other elements or expenses (including, without limitation, insurance, meals, unspecified ground transportation, phone calls, baggage, gratuities, incidentals, souvenirs, gasoline, etc.) are included in the Prize and all such expenses are the sole responsibility of Winner.
Winner is responsible for any air travel taxes and/or expenses, including applicable departure taxes or fees, inspection charges, baggage fees, and security charges. Winner and Guests are responsible for obtaining, at their own expense, any necessary travel documentation (i.e. valid photo identification, visas, passports, etc.) prior to travel. Once issued, tickets are nontransferable and may not be reissued once travel has commenced. Open tickets may not be issued and stopovers are not permitted. Travel arrangements must be made through Universal.
In connection with any visit to Universal Orlando Resort and/or Universal Studios Hollywood, please be advised that Universal’s policies, CDC guidelines, and the recommendations of health officials must be followed.
In addition, guests should be aware of and comply with government guidelines regarding travel restrictions and mandatory quarantines before visiting any Universal destination.
Please note that any public location where people are present provides an inherent risk of exposure to COVID-19, and Universal cannot guarantee that any person will not be exposed during a visit.
All parts of the prize selected are subject to availability and blackout dates, and subject to change without written notice or warning. Should an act of God, hurricane, war, fire, riot, earthquake, act of public enemies, actions of governmental authorities, epidemics, pandemics and the spread of infectious diseases, including without limitation COVID-19 (as defined by the World Health Organization and any of the strains, variants or mutations thereof), and any related governmental or judicial actions taken in connection with, or as a response to, any such event, or any other event beyond the reasonable control of a party, whether or not existing, known, foreseen or foreseeable at the time this promotion occurs, render the redemption or fulfilment of some or all of the prize delayed, hindered, adversely affected, impracticable, or impossible, Universal in its sole and absolute discretion, reserves the right to evaluate and make modifications to the redemption and fulfilment processes and timelines for any prize or portion of the prize that Universal is responsible for, which may include but is not limited to providing additional time for redemption and/ or fulfilment. Should the prize become unavailable, experiences and items of a similar nature and value may be offered.ACCEPTANCE AND DELIVERY OF THE PRIZE: The Winner will be required to verify his or her address and may be required to execute the following document(s) before a notary public and return them within 72 hours (3) days (or a shorter time if required by exigencies) of receipt of such documents: an affidavit of eligibility, a liability release, and (where imposing such condition is legal) a publicity release covering eligibility, liability, advertising, publicity and media appearance issues (collectively, the “Prize Claim Documents”). If an entrant is unable to verify the information submitted with their entry, the entrant will automatically be disqualified and their prize, if any, will be forfeited. The Prize will not be awarded until all such properly executed and notarized Prize Claim Documents are returned to Sponsor. Prize(s) won by an eligible entrant who is a minor in his or her state of residence will be awarded to minor’s parent or legal guardian, who must sign and return all required Prize Claim Documents. In the event the Prize Claim Documents are not returned within the specified period, an alternate Winner may be selected by Sponsor for such Prize. The Prize will be shipped to the Winner within 6 weeks of Sponsor’s receipt of a signed Affidavit and Release from the Winner. The Winner is responsible for all taxes and fees related to the Prize received, if any. OTHER RULES: THIS SWEEPSTAKES IS SUBJECT TO ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND IS VOID WHERE PROHIBITED. ALL SUBMISSIONS BY ENTRANTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE SWEEPSTAKES BECOME THE SOLE PROPERTY OF THE SPONSOR AND WILL NOT BE ACKNOWLEDGED OR RETURNED. WINNER ASSUMES ALL LIABILITY FOR ANY INJURIES OR DAMAGE CAUSED OR CLAIMED TO BE CAUSED BY PARTICIPATION IN THIS SWEEPSTAKES OR BY THE USE OR MISUSE OF ANY PRIZE. BY ENTERING THE SWEEPSTAKES, EACH WINNER GRANTS THE SPONSOR PERMISSION TO USE HIS OR HER NAME, CITY, STATE/PROVINCE, E-MAIL ADDRESS AND, TO THE EXTENT SUBMITTED AS PART OF THE SWEEPSTAKES ENTRY, HIS OR HER PHOTOGRAPH, VOICE, AND/OR LIKENESS FOR ADVERTISING, PUBLICITY OR OTHER PURPOSES OR ON A WINNER’S LIST, IF APPLICABLE, IN ANY AND ALL MEDIA WHETHER NOW KNOWN OR HEREINAFTER DEVELOPED, WORLDWIDE, WITHOUT ADDITIONAL CONSENT OR COMPENSATION, EXCEPT WHERE PROHIBITED BY LAW. By submitting an entry, entrants also grant the Sponsor a perpetual, fully-paid, irrevocable, non-exclusive license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, distribute, display, exhibit, transmit, broadcast, televise, digitize, perform and otherwise use and permit others to use, and throughout the world, their entry materials in any manner, form, or format now known or hereinafter created, including on the internet, and for any purpose, including, but not limited to, advertising or promotion of the Sweepstakes, the Sponsor and/or its products and services, without further consent from or compensation to the entrant. By entering the Sweepstakes, entrants consent to receive notification of future promotions, advertisements or solicitations by or from Sponsor and/or Sponsor’s parent companies, affiliates, subsidiaries and business partners, via email or other means of communication. If, in the Sponsor’s opinion, there is any suspected or actual evidence of fraud, electronic or non-electronic tampering or unauthorized intervention with any portion of this Sweepstakes, or if fraud or technical difficulties of any sort (e.g., computer viruses, bugs) compromise the integrity of the Sweepstakes, the Sponsor reserves the right to void suspect entries and/or terminate the Sweepstakes and award the Prize in its sole discretion. Any attempt to deliberately damage the Sponsor’s website(s) or undermine the legitimate operation of the Sweepstakes may be in violation of U.S. criminal and civil laws and will result in disqualification from participation in the Sweepstakes. Should such an attempt be made, the Sponsor reserves the right to seek remedies and damages (including attorney’s fees) to the fullest extent of the law, including pursuing criminal prosecution.DISCLAIMER: EXCLUDING ONLY APPLICABLE MANUFACTURERS’ WARRANTIES, THE PRIZE IS PROVIDED TO THE WINNER ON AN “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT FURTHER WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. SPONSOR HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL FURTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH RESPECT TO THE PRIZE.LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: BY ENTERING THE SWEEPSTAKES, ENTRANTS, ON BEHALF OF THEMSELVES AND THEIR HEIRS, EXECUTORS, ASSIGNS AND REPRESENTATIVES, RELEASE AND HOLD THE SPONSOR ITS PARENT COMPANIES, SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATED COMPANIES, UNITS AND DIVISIONS, AND THE CURRENT AND FORMER OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, SHAREHOLDERS, AGENTS, SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS OF EACH OF THE FOREGOING, AND ALL THOSE ACTING UNDER THE AUTHORITY FO THE FOREGOING, OR ANY OF THEM (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONAL AGENCIES AND PRIZE SUPPLIERS) (EACH A “RELEASED PARTY”), HARMLESS FROM AND AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, ACTIONS, INJURY, LOSS, DAMAGES, LIABILTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER (COLLECTIVELY, THE “CLAIMS”) WHETHER KNOWN OR UNKNOWN, SUSPECTED OR UNSUSPECTED, WHICH ENTRANT EVER HAD, NOW HAVE, OR HEREAFTER CAN, SHALL OR MAY HAVE, AGAINST THE RELEASED PARTIES (OR ANY OF THEM), INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, CLAIMS ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO THE SWEEPSTAKES OR ENTRANT’S PARTICIPATION IN THE SWEEPSTAKES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, CLAIMS FOR LIBEL, DEFAMATION, INVASION OF PRIVACY, VIOLATION OF THE RIGHT OF PUBLICITY, COMMERCIAL APPROPRIATION OF NAME AND LIKENESS, INFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHT OR VIOLATION OF ANY OTHER PERSONAL OR PROPRIETARY RIGHT), AND THE RECEIPT, OWNERSHIP, USE, MISUSE, TRANSFER, SALE OR OTHER DISPOSITION OF THE PRIZE (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, CLAIMS FOR PERSONAL INJURY, DEATH, AND/OR PROPERTY DAMAGE). All matters relating to the interpretation and application of these Sweepstakes Rules shall be decided by Sponsor in its sole discretion.
DISPUTES: If, for any reason (including infection by computer virus, bugs, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes beyond the control of the Sponsor which corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity, or proper conduct of this Sweepstakes), the Sweepstakes is not capable of being conducted as described in these Sweepstakes Rules, Sponsor
shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to disqualify any individual who tampers with the entry process, and/or to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Sweepstakes. The Sponsor assumes no responsibility for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to, or alteration of, entries. The Sponsor is not responsible for any problems or technical malfunction of any telephone network or lines, computer online systems, servers, providers, computer equipment, software, or failure of any e-mail or entry to be received by Sponsor on account of technical problems or traffic congestion on the Internet or at any website, or any combination thereof, including, without limitation, any injury or damage to any entrant’s or any other person’s computer related to or resulting from participating or downloading any materials in this Sweepstakes. Because of the unique nature and scope of the Sweepstakes, Sponsor reserves the right, in addition to those other rights reserved herein, to modify any date(s) or deadline(s) set forth in these Sweepstakes Rules or otherwise governing the Sweepstakes, and any such changes will be posted here in the Sweepstakes Rules. Any attempt by any person to deliberately undermine the legitimate operation of the Sweepstakes may be a violation of criminal and civil law, and, should such an attempt be made, Sponsor reserves the right to seek damages to the fullest extent permitted by law. Sponsor’s failure to enforce any term of these Sweepstakes Rules shall not constitute a waiver of any provision.As a condition of participating in the Sweepstakes, entrant agrees that any and all disputes that cannot be resolved between entrant and Sponsor, and causes of action arising out of or connected with the Sweepstakes or these Sweepstakes Rules, shall be resolved individually, without resort to any form of class action, exclusively before a court of competent jurisdiction located in San Francisco, California, and entrant irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of the federal and state courts located in San Francisco, California with respect to any such dispute, cause of action, or other matter. All disputes will be governed and controlled by the laws of the State of California (without regard for its conflicts-of-laws principles). Further, in any such dispute, under no circumstances will entrant be permitted to obtain awards for, and hereby irrevocably waives all rights to claim, punitive, incidental, or consequential damages, or any other damages, including attorneys’ fees, other than entrant’s actual out-of-pocket expenses (i.e., costs incurred directly in connection with entrant’s participation in the Sweepstakes), and entrant further irrevocably waives all rights to have damages multiplied or increased, if any. EACH PARTY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY. All federal, state, and local laws and regulations apply.Prize Supplier: Universal City Development Partners, Ltd. d/b/a Universal Orlando Resort (“UO”) and Universal City Studios LLC d/b/a Universal Studios Hollywood ((“USH”) collectively referred to herein as “Universal) are prize providers only in this promotion; are not sponsors of this promotion; and are not responsible for the administration of the promotion, the collection of the entries or the selection of any winner. Any disputes, claims, and causes of action against Universal Orlando Resort arising out of or relating to any person’s use of, or participation in any portion of the UO Prize involving Universal Orlando Resort shall be resolved by applying the laws of Florida, without regard to conflict of laws provisions therein, and shall be solely and exclusively brought in state or federal courts within Orange County, Florida. Such claims shall be resolved individually, without resort to any form of class action, and all such claims shall be limited to actual out-of-pocket costs incurred, but in no event to include attorneys’ fees. Any disputes, claims and causes of action against Universal Studios Hollywood arising out of or relating to any person’s use of, or participation in the USH Prize involving Universal Studios Hollywood shall be fully and finally adjudicated by binding arbitration to the fullest extent allowed by law ( an “Arbitration”) in Los Angeles, California. The Arbitration shall be administered by JAMS in accordance with the Streamlined Arbitration Rules and Procedure of JAMS (available at https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-streamlined-arbitration/) or subsequent versions thereof, including the optional appeal procedure.PRIVACY: Information collected from entrants in connection with the Sweepstakes is subject to Sponsor’s privacy policy, which may be found here. You understand that when you register on the Twitter website or submit information to or via Twitter, such submissions are also subject to Twitter’s privacy policy. SOCIAL MEDIA PROMOTION: Although the Sweepstakes may be featured on Twitter, Facebook and/or other social media platforms, the Sweepstakes is in no way sponsored, endorsed, administered by, or association with Twitter, Facebook and/or such other social media platforms and you agree that Twitter, Facebook and all other social media platforms are not liable in any way for any claims, damages or losses associated with the Sweepstakes.
WINNER(S) LIST: For a list of name(s) of prize winner(s), after the Selection Date, please send a stamped, self-addressed No. 10/standard
business envelope to Ziff Davis, LLC, Attn: Legal Department, 360 Park Avenue South, 17th Floor New York, New York 10010 (VT residents may omit return postage).BY ENTERING, YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND AGREE TO ALL OF THESE SWEEPSTAKES RULES.See All RewardsHave questions regarding the offer?Contact SupportReviews•Editor Columns•News•Guides•Upcoming Sales Events•How to Watch Guides•Board Game Reviews•GTA 5 Cheats•Best Streaming Bundles•IGN Store•Top Deals•Contact Us•IGN YouTube•HowLongToBeat•IGN TikTok•IGN Twitter•Map Genie•Eurogamer•Rock Paper Shotgun•VG247•Maxroll•Privacy Policy•Terms of Use