Careers - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Business
Careers
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
I dropped out of college at 19 and had no plan for what came next. Hong Kong pushed me to grow up fast.
4 min read
When I was diagnosed with cancer, I became a better leader at work. I didn't have the energy to micromanage.
4 min read
I got laid off and landed a senior Fortune 100 job in 5 months. Joining a job seekers group was key to my success.
Amy Ma was laid off as a data scientist while she was five months pregnant. She was skeptical about trying a "job search council" as an introvert, but found the support very helpful.
5 min read
I landed a job in a month when I started using a strategic LinkedIn filter. It's not a perfect hack, but it got me a job I love.
After months of panic, 28-year-old Lauren Young finally found success in the job market using LinkedIn filters in her job hunt.
6 min read
For nearly two decades I was a full-time working mother. Then, I lost my job and 2 of my 3 kids moved away.
I lost my job then 2 of my 3 kids left for school. Overnight, my calendar cleared and my phone stopped buzzing. The shift was harder than I expected.
4 min read
I relied on a GoFundMe and loans from friends while I was unemployed. After an 8-month search, I finally landed a job.
Michele Wilke, a 63-year-old job seeker, struggled to find a job for eight months. After recently landing one, she says she's ready for a fresh start.
5 min read
Power Hours
I'm the head of VC at IBM. My day includes 10 miles with my doodles, sign language, and meetings with startups.
Emily Fontaine is IBM's global head of venture capital. When she's not traveling, she wakes up at sunrise, meets startups, and watches the Celtics.
6 min read
A 26-year-old Google DeepMind researcher explains how he broke his perfectionist streak and got into leadership
Neel Nanda explains how overcoming perfectionism and embracing luck got him into a leadership role at Google DeepMind.
2 min read
I moved to London and finally landed my dream job, but something felt wrong on the first day. It was time for a career pivot.
When I landed my dream job at the BBC, all my dreams came true. But I felt despondent, so I started my own business instead.
4 min read
Quitting your job this fall might be a bad idea
A cooling labor market and economic worries could dampen hiring this fall. It doesn't mean you should give up, a recruiter told Business Insider.
4 min read
Working multiple jobs gave me flexibility when I started having kids. They're older now, but I can't give up that perk.
My kids are tweens and teens, but returning to a full-time role doesn't seem possible. I need more flexibility than a single job can provide.
4 min read
I'm a female breadwinner who's done being a girlboss. I want my legacy to be motherhood, not my ability to rot away in a corporate office.
Henley Carr quit trying to be a girlboss when she realized her career didn't fulfill her. Becoming a mother helped her realize her purpose.
5 min read
Jared Kushner says young people should work in government over Big Tech: 'It's a 2-year business school stint'
Jared Kushner says federal service offers career growth, learning, and networks. "It's a two-year business school stint."
3 min read
I left Bain to launch a startup solving a problem I faced every day. Consulting skills helped, but here's what I had to pick up on my own.
Daphne Tay left Bain to fix a daily work pain. Consulting skills helped, but she had to learn sales and the startup playbook from scratch.
4 min read
A winning investment: How a robust workplace benefits program brings value to employees and employers
Boost success with a strong workplace benefits program—enhancing employee value, employer ROI, and fostering a productive environment.
1 min read
Under Armour CEO says he values micromanagement 'at certain levels' — and follows the 80/20 rule
Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank described an 80/20 balance for chasing the speed of the market while also allowing free time to think.
2 min read
I'm a mom of 2 and wrote a book about online safety. Here's what parents get wrong about digital security.
Cathy Pedrayes is perpetually online and is also a mom. She says
parents should set up child accounts to ensure they will have more safety features.
4 min read
Dan DeFrancesco
The consulting industry is on track to get upended, and we'll all have to deal with the consequences
The consulting industry is on the cusp of a big overhaul, and the rest of the business world is likely to feel it.
6 min read
Inside the rarely used fridges of 20-something tech founders
Six young tech founders opened their fridges for us. Only one said they consistently cooked; the others relied on delivery services and takeout.
5 min read
The job market is tough. It's even tougher if you've been at the same job for decades.
The job market can be challenging for anyone right now. But if you've been at one company for many years, there can be extra challenges.
5 min read
A Bain veteran shares the interview strategies that can help you land a top consulting role
Spencer Anderson, a former senior manager at Bain, says candidates who are authentic have the best chance of landing a consulting gig.
6 min read
I'm a principal security engineer at Microsoft. Here's what you should do if you want to work in cybersecurity.
Tannu Jiwnani started her career as a business analyst in the airline industry and is now a principal security engineer at Microsoft.
5 min read
I took an 11-year career break to raise my son. At 41, I took an internship and landed a senior role after 3 months.
Sripriya Balasubramaniam left her job at Oracle to raise her son. She was worried about getting back into the workforce, but turned an internship into a full-time role.
6 min read
I landed a job at an AI startup right out of college. Here's what you should do if you want to work in AI.
Lambert Liu, 22, says being a holistic engineer who understands system design can help secure a job at an AI startup.
5 min read
My 13-year-old is earning money by refereeing soccer games. It's a great gig.
My teen loves soccer, so when we found out he could make some extra cash as a referee, we were all in. Now he's learning important job skills.
4 min read
Few workers are quitting right now. These people share why they did it anyway.
In this Sunday edition of Business Insider Today, we're talking about why some people chose to quit their jobs at a time when fewer people are leaving.
6 min read
A16z founder Ben Horowitz says hesitation is 'the worst thing' leaders can do
Ben Horowitz, cofounder of a16z, said CEOs have to build this "psychological muscle" to a "great leader" during "Lenny's Podcast" on Thursday.
2 min read
I quit my comfortable financial research job to start a drone company. Here's why I took the leap.
Jacob Stonecipher became obsessed with finding a way to reinvent aerial advertising after seeing airplanes flying banners at the Jersey shore.
4 min read
'Culling of the herd': Consulting could be headed for a decadelong shift that'll make it harder to climb its career ladder
The consulting sector could be headed for a decade of changes that will make it harder to climb through the ranks, industry experts told Business Insider.
8 min read
I left my federal job and moved my family to Mexico for a one-year career break. Our passive income made it possible, but others can do it too.
Former NIH scientist, Daniel Dulebohn, relocated his family to Mexico for a one-year career break after he faced job insecurity at the NIH.
6 min read
'I like not-working better': A millennial who once made $300,000 secretly juggling jobs tells us why he scaled back
A millennial software engineer who made $300k secretly working two jobs shares how he's navigated RTO — and still keeps a side hustle for extra income.
8 min read
I left a career spanning Goldman Sachs and tech to become a hiking guide. The 75% pay cut was worth it.
Cliff Goldstein always loved the outdoors but followed the career path he saw others taking. At age 38, he gave himself permission to pivot to his dream job.
6 min read
I quit my Disney career to freelance. It was a leap of faith, but I've made over $900,000 in 5 years.
Cameron Gurr began freelancing after he was furloughed from his role at Disney in 2020. He shared how he's made over $900,000 on Fiverr.
6 min read
NBCU's one-size-fits-all severance package for RTO workers shows just how much power employers have right now
Return-to-office orders are en vogue. Employees can leave and take severance, but if it's not based on tenure, staffers may eventually be less loyal.
4 min read
I've applied to over 1,500 jobs. It's hard to see the toll this process has taken on my kids.
Jacob Woodward has been job searching for over a year. The father of six says it's been hard to see how the process has impacted his kids.
6 min read
Working at a summer camp as a media director was the reset I needed after getting laid off from a job I loved
I was laid off from my job in the entertainment industry a year ago. This summer, I worked — and stayed — at a summer camp. It was the reset I needed.
5 min read
Exclusive
AT&T tracked employee attendance to find 'freeloaders.' Now, it admits the system is driving workers to the 'brink of frustration.'
AT&T is dialing down its use of a controversial attendance tracking system that it used to enforce its five-day RTO policy.
7 min read
I quit my corporate banking career to open a coffee shop — and a viral TikTok saved it from failing
Nicole McMillian left her 10-year banking career to open a coffee shop in rural Oregon. The business was struggling until she found viral TikTok fame.
4 min read
I was called back into the JPMorgan office. My family has had to adjust, but I trust the company.
Jitender Jain was called back into the JPMorgan Dallas office three days a week. He and his wife had to adjust childcare and household responsibilities.
4 min read
I love working remotely for a Swiss company from NYC. I clock in at 4 a.m. but get more time with my son and generous PTO.
Ross McGraw works at a Swiss sports tech firm from his New York City home. He has one piece of advice for people tempted to take a role with a similar set-up.
5 min read
I left LA tech to try Bangkok fashion. It helped me escape the hustle.
In California, it felt like people believed tech could solve anything. Sutasit Srivisarvacha didn't see it that way and moved back to Bangkok.
4 min read
I quit the golden handcuffs of Big Tech for an AI startup. It's not for everyone, but here's why I know I made the right choice.
Kendall Ranking quit Big Tech and later started working for a startup. She says there are pros and cons to each, but she won't go back to Big Tech.
5 min read
Is 'learn to code' still good advice? 8 executives weigh in.
While some executives still preach the importance of learning the basics, others say there are more valuable skills to know in the AI era.
5 min read
I've reviewed hundreds of applicant-tracking systems. Here's why your résumé may never reach a hiring manager.
Applicant-tracking systems can be biased, said Rod Samra, a former Labor Department investigator. Here's how to help ensure your résumé gets seen.
4 min read
I left investment banking in New York to chase my dream in China. Here, it feels doable.
In Shanghai, Yangyang Guo supports herself by helping students with US college applications.
5 min read
The CEO of Booking Holdings once got laid off. He shares the two things he learned from the experience.
Before leading a travel giant, the CEO of Booking Holdings was once laid off from his job. He said the experience taught him two key lessons.
3 min read
A former manager says a 5-month job hunt has her eyeing a pivot: 'I'm starting to get excited about not managing people'
After five months with few interviews, Karen Del'Olio is starting to believe that leaving management behind is the best career move she can make.
7 min read
Want to quit your job? Here's how others did it — and what they learned.
What's the best way to give notice? Is it ever a good idea to quit without another job lined up? Read this before quitting.
1 min read
I pivoted from software engineering to AI product management. Here are the 3 strategies I used to help me land the job.
After four years as a full-time software engineer, Phani Sai Ram Munipalli knew a massive shift was coming in tech and entered the AI talent wars.
5 min read
Power Hours
I'm the founder and CEO of Whoop. My days consist of workouts followed by cold plunges, meditation, and meetings.
Whoop CEO Will Ahmed starts his days with an early-morning workout, followed by a cold plunge and meditation.
6 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.