Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 9, 2025
07:41 AM
5
Microsoft is testing new File Explorer AI-powered features that will enable Windows 11 users to work with images and documents without needing to open the files.
Known as "AI actions," they can currently only be used to remove the background, erase objects, and blur the background in JPG, JPEG, and PNG image files.
The complete list of File Explorer AI actions also includes a tool designed to help users easily reverse search any of their images using Microsoft's Bing web search engine.
"With AI actions in File Explorer, you can interact more deeply with your files by right-clicking to quickly take actions like editing images or summarizing documents," said Microsoft's Amanda Langowski and Brandon LeBlanc.
"Like with Click to Do, AI actions in File Explorer allow you to stay in your flow while leveraging the power of AI to take advantage of editing tools in apps or Copilot functionality without having to open your file."
Windows Insiders can try the new AI actions in File Explorer by selecting the "AI actions" entry from the contextual menu that appears after right-clicking a supported image file.
File Explorer AI actions (Microsoft)
The new AI features are rolling out to Windows Insiders in the Canary Channel who have installed Windows 11 Insider Preview Build 27938.
This new Windows 11 build also introduces a new entry in the "Settings > Privacy & security > Text and image generation" dialog, which displays which third-party applications have recently utilized Windows' generative AI models and allows users to control which apps are allowed to use them.
In May, Microsoft also announced new AI agents that make changing settings on your Windows computer easier on Snapdragon-powered Copilot+ PCs.
As the company explained at the time, users can utilize these agents to find settings they want to change using natural language and instruct them to do so without requiring any user involvement beyond the initial prompt.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgradeWindows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 daysMicrosoft fixes app install issues caused by August Windows updatesMicrosoft says recent Windows updates cause app install issuesMicrosoft fixes bug behind Windows certificate enrollment errors
AI
Artificial Intelligence
Bing
Copilot
Microsoft
Windows
Windows 11
Windows Insider
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
doncoyote
-
1 week ago
Awaiting the further development of third party software to negate "features" in Windows 11.
JohnC_21
-
1 week ago
I'm so glad I'm not moving to Windows 11 and having to deal with all these "features". Maybe Microsoft should be spending more time on improving their QA.
Drags
-
1 week ago
<p>yet another point on the list of junk no-one needs or asked for&quot;</p>
scootnado
-
1 week ago
Oh, for goodness sake! Who even asks for these features, 'cos it sure isn't me. I'm fed up of Microsoft stuffing AI into every orifice of their operating system — it's just another data breach waiting to happen.
pnda73
-
6 days ago
I use Arch btw
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Sponsor Posts
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT