The Number One Way Americans are Becoming Millionaires | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Financial Advisors
The Number One Way Americans are Becoming Millionaires
The Number One Way Americans are Becoming Millionaires
The best investing may not always be thrilling.
Danny Noonan
Sep 17, 2024
Share
Securities in This Article
Strategy Inc Class A
(MSTR)
Patience and discipline are easily understood but hard to put into practice. Investing serves as the perfect litmus test. One could reasonably argue that these two traits are among the most important factors driving long-term investment success.The number-one way Americans become millionaires isn’t through timely real estate purchases or being early investors in startups. The formula is much simpler: consistent buying, usually in the form of automatic contributions from every paycheck into a retirement account.Look no further than a recent report from Fidelity, which shows that there are more 401(k) millionaires on its platform than ever before.
Number of 401(k) Millionaires at Fidelity
Source: Fidelity Q2 2024 Retirement Analysis. Data as of June 2024. But the investing world is filled with distractions, and it’s easy to get tripped up. Rising markets often invite bad behavior, with some investors making no point of differentiation between the stock market and a casino. One timely example is leveraged and inverse exchange-traded funds, which have surged in popularity. According to Direxion, a provider of these products, there are now more than 200 leveraged and inverse ETFs in the marketplace, managing approximately $100 billion in assets.A recent Bloomberg story highlighted one of these investment vehicles that’s designed to give investors 3 times the daily return of MicroStrategy MSTR—a single stock that is often associated with bitcoin because it holds a large amount on its balance sheet.MicroStrategy stock is up over 100% this year, yet the product that provides 3 times leverage to its stock price is down more than 80%.
Performance (YTD): MicroStrategy Share Price vs. 3x MicroStrategy Fund
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data period is year-to-date through July 2024. References to a specific security not an offer to buy or sell. Past performance no guarantee of future results. How is that possible? Compounding works in reverse, too. The answer lies in the mechanics of leveraged funds. These products are designed for short-term traders, not long-term investors. They aim to deliver multiples of daily performance, but over time, the compounding effect of daily resets destroys returns. Investors who jump into these funds seeking blowout returns are often left disappointed, trapped by the short-term fluctuations they sought to exploit. Instead of letting the market work for them, they chase quick profits. Unfortunately, the pursuit of fast money can spectacularly backfire.On the other hand, the 401(k) millionaires stayed disciplined, purchasing stocks every two weeks through their retirement contributions, regardless of market conditions. Whether markets were bumpy or booming, they remained consistent. Over time, their patience and discipline compounded into substantial wealth. The same will likely be true for many generations that follow.The best investing may not always be thrilling, but that’s for the better.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Morningstar Investment Management LLC is a Registered Investment Advisor and subsidiary of Morningstar, Inc. The Morningstar name and logo are registered marks of Morningstar, Inc. Opinions expressed are as of the date indicated; such opinions are subject to change without notice. Morningstar Investment Management and its affiliates shall not be responsible for any trading decisions, damages, or other losses resulting from, or related to, the information, data, analyses or opinions or their use. This commentary is for informational purposes only. The information data, analyses, and opinions presented herein do not constitute investment advice, are provided solely for informational purposes and therefore are not an offer to buy or sell a security. Before making any investment decision, please consider consulting a financial or tax professional regarding your unique situation.
Share
More in Financial Advisors
View All
A Breakdown of Target-Date Fund Strategies in 2025 Clients who invested in a target-date fund for the past 15 years and collect Social Security should be set for retirement.
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Why the Bond Market Is Fertile Ground for Active Management Its structure poses inherent challenges for passive investing.
Eric Jacobson Aug 28, 2025
Global Defense Market Trends: How Geopolitical Shifts Are Shaping Opportunities in the Sector
Rising global defense budgets and innovations in military tech and AI are creating investment opportunities advisors shouldn’t overlook.
Loredana Muharremi Aug 27, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Danny Noonan Senior Investment Writer
More from Author
Danny Noonan is a senior investment writer for Morningstar Investment Management LLC. He is responsible for producing content for Morningstar’s financial advisor audience.
Private Markets Are Coming to Financial Advisors
Danny Noonan May 27, 2025
Will Tariffs Lead to Buying Opportunities for Mexican Stocks?
Danny Noonan Dec 6, 2024
How Value Stocks Can Strengthen Your Portfolio
Danny Noonan Dec 3, 2024
Is It Time to Diversify Beyond US Large-Cap Growth Stocks?
Danny Noonan Nov 18, 2024
Organic Growth Is the North Star for Financial Advisors
Danny Noonan Nov 14, 2024
What’s Next for the Markets and Economy After the Fed Rate Cut?
Danny Noonan Sep 18, 2024
The Number One Way Americans are Becoming Millionaires
Danny Noonan Sep 17, 2024
China Tech Stocks: Investor Fears Could Bring Opportunity
Danny Noonan Sep 4, 2024
What’s Behind Starbucks’ Best Trading Day Ever
Danny Noonan Aug 16, 2024
Bonds Reclaim Their Defensive Status
Danny Noonan Aug 13, 2024
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility