Trump Admin's Investments: Companies Targeted for US Equity Stake - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Politics
Every company on Trump's growing list of US investments and equity stakes
By
Brent D. Griffiths
President Donald Trump speaks at an Investing in America event at the White House.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
2025-09-25T10:29:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
President Donald Trump and his administration want the US to have a stake in key companies.
Shares in Lithium Americas, a Canadian mining company, soared on reports of a potential US stake.
Trump and his Cabinet have been aggressive in pursuing equity stakes.
Thanks to President Donald Trump, Uncle Sam has a burgeoning portfolio.Once considered rare, Trump and his team have pushed the US to consider taking stakes in private companies.
"You have stupid people say, 'That's a shame.' It's not a shame, that's called business." Trump told reporters in the Oval Office on August 25.At the time, Trump defended his decision to take a 9.9% stake in Intel, a once-dominant chipmaker, over criticism that such industrial policy isn't how the US typically operates. He said that he wants "to get as much as I can.""I hope I'm going to have many more cases like it," Trump said of the Intel deal.
The deals keep coming. Most recently, the Trump administration has entered talks with Lithium Americas to take a small stake in the Canadian mining company.Here is a look at all the companies that Trump is targeting.
Intel
Under Trump's leadership, the US converted roughly $11 billion in Biden-era Chips Act grants into a 10% equity stake.
picture alliance/dpa/picture alliance via Getty Images
Under Trump's leadership, the US converted roughly $11 billion in Biden-era Chips Act grants into a 10% equity stake. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, who helped lead the talks with the chipmaker, said it was a mistake to award grants without securing anything in return."America should get the benefit of the bargain," Lutnick told CNBC before the deal ultimately came together. "I mean, that is exactly Donald Trump's perspective, which is, Why are we giving a company worth $100 billion this kind of money? What is in it for the American taxpayer?' And the answer Donald Trump has is we should get an equity stake for our money."Intel shares have gone up over 25% in the month since the announcement. The company has also cautioned in securities filings that the US stake could pose some risks, including potentially hurting international sales.
MP Materials
The alloy production room at MP Materials' Fort Worth plant.
Business Wire/AP
In July, the Defense Department announced that it would become the largest shareholder in MP Materials after agreeing to buy $400 million worth of shares.MP Materials owns the operational rare earth mine in the US. Trump administration officials have said it is a national security risk for the US to continue to rely on China and other foreign nations for the key minerals needed for everything from iPhones to military jet engines.MP Materials CEO James Litinsky said that he views the deal as a "public-private partnership" that is different than the government's agreement with Intel."Those are scenarios where you had commitments from a past administration, where the Trump administration has come in and said, wait a second, you had no-strings attached commitments to companies, we think we should get a piece of the action," Litinsky told CNBC.Shares in MP Materials have roughly doubled since the deal became public.
Lithium Americas
A Trump administration official confirmed to Business Insider that the Trump administration is asking for a small equity stake in Lithium Americas.
Illustration by Thomas Fuller/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images
A Trump administration official confirmed to Business Insider that the Trump administration is asking for a small equity stake in Lithium Americas as part of a broader renegotiation of a $2.26 billion government loan.Lithium Americas said it is in discussions with the Department of Energy and General Motors, its partner in a mining project in Thacker Pass, as first reported by Reuters. The Nevada area where the mine is located is believed to have one of the world's largest lithium deposits.Trump approved the project during his first term, but the Energy Department loan was finalized during the Biden administration.The administration official said the Energy Department agreed to restructure the loan by pushing out part of its repayment. In exchange, the Trump administration wanted a "very, very small equity share" to "create more of a cash buffer for the project."Shares in Lithium Americas went up over 93% on September 24 after news of a potential stake became public.
Lockheed Martin
President Donald Trump spoke at Derco Aerospace, a Lockheed subsidiary, in 2019.
Alex Brandon/AP
In August, Lutnick said that the Pentagon was considering taking stakes in defense contractors. He specifically named Lockheed Martin as a potential example."They are essentially an arm of the US government," Lutnick said of Lockheed.Asked about any possible discussions, a Lockheed Martin spokesperson praised the contractor's relationship with the Trump administration."As we did in his first term, we are continuing our strong working relationship with President Trump and his Administration to strengthen our national defense," a spokesperson told Business Insider in a statement.
Recommended video
White House
Donald Trump
Intel
More
Tech
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account