YAML code to bring Allure tests report from Azure cloud cron-job back to Azure DevOps - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
YAML code to bring Allure tests report from Azure cloud cron-job back to Azure DevOps
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
21 times
Part of Microsoft Azure Collective
0
I created an automation testing framework for a client using WebDriver I/O and JavaScript.
The BE lead helped me create the infrastructure needed to execute the tests on Docker. Now, due to client's policies, we had to use Azure DevOps (ADO from now on) to create a pipeline, which actually takes the automation code from Git, adds variables/passwords and in the end creates a cron-job, which can be triggered (manually, for the moment) from the Azure portal to actually run the tests. The output files/logs are stored on an Azure storage.
As some of you know, Allure is a nice reporting tool for WebDriver I/O test executions, and me and other colleagues thought the Allure Report ADO plugin might give easy access to the reports in ADO, but I don't know how to bring the output files from the Azure storage back to ADO. Besides this, I'm not sure what it will happen when multiple executions will be triggered by different users.
How can I bring the output files from Azure to ADO, so that the plugin will allow us to see the report? I have a YAML file which instructs the cron-job to run the npm package launching the WebDriver I/O config file, but I have no clue how to bring the outputs back to ADO.
(For the moment, our clients' policies restrict us to have the automation code on an ADO Repository, so this breaks the usual flow used by the plugin)
azureazure-pipelines-yamlwebdriver-io
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 17 at 18:43
raduiradui
10122 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
1
Azure Pipeline Triggers in Azure Devops: Trigger a pipeline when another completes not working as expected
11
Azure DevOps - Create a work item from incoming email
2
Calling Bitbucket 2.0 API from Azure DevOps Pipeline
Related questions
1
Azure Pipeline Triggers in Azure Devops: Trigger a pipeline when another completes not working as expected
11
Azure DevOps - Create a work item from incoming email
2
Calling Bitbucket 2.0 API from Azure DevOps Pipeline
0
sync changes from azure fileshare back to onprem file server
1
Manage authorization with Azure API Management and Function App as back-end
0
Complete records are not Obtained from Azure Blob using Stream Analytics Job
32
Conditional dependent job in Azure Devops YAML pipelines
Load 4 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
azureazure-pipelines-yamlwebdriver-io
See similar questions with these tags.
Microsoft Azure
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
What is this circuit box for
Historic mistake in sign of KdV equation
Does an NSCF job modify the SCF folder in QE?
Linear rheostat - where lies a trick of a sliding contact with isolated wire?
Why it takes so long to referee a paper in some journals?
In Much Ado About Nothing, why aren't the lines: "...live in THINE heart ... buried in THINE eyes"? (V.2.102-3)
Historical Survey: What elements in D&D can affect a character's level outside of leveling up?
Clarification of "Trautes Heim, Glück allein"
Can we reach a stage where there are 105 piles with 1 tile in each pile?
Two definitions of regularity for ultrafilters
Buffering line vectors that only buffer along the length of the line in QGIS
Number of prime factors modulo residue classes
How to justify a mass hierarchal administrative demotion without causing a coup/civil war
Tooth cavities in 4 year old kid
Maximum distance with 100 motorbikes carrying limited fuel and consuming 1L/km - Interview
How to make the frameticks point outward?
When was God featured in The Simpsons?
How did "hospital" lose its first syllable in some languages?
How do I Lock a Car from the Outside with no Key
keytheorems + tcolorbox: accessing tcbkeys in the optional argument of an already declared theorem
Why is my battery being zapped?
If a partition that has always been able to be mounted normally,suddenly cannot be mounted and enters Emergency Mode,what might be the reason?
How to add more drives to a sambashare and also best arrangement for multiple drives of different sizes in a RAID setup
I need a reason for artillery to still be used despite suboptimal conditions and terrain
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211