How BI's Amazon Prime Investigation Led to a $2.5 Bln FTC Settlement - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
How Business Insider's investigation into Amazon Prime led to a record $2.5 billion settlement with the US government
By
Eugene Kim
Amazon's founder Jeff Bezos
AP
2025-09-25T17:00:03Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Amazon settled with the FTC for $2.5 billion over Prime subscription practices.
The settlement follows Business Insider's investigation revealing misleading Prime sign-up tactics.
Amazon must pay penalties, refund consumers, and change Prime enrollment processes.
Amazon reached a $2.5 billion settlement with the US Federal Trade Commission on Thursday, resolving a case over its Prime subscription sign-up and cancellation practices that Business Insider exposed in an exclusive investigation.
The settlement is the largest civil penalty in a case involving an FTC rule violation, the regulator said.BI's 2022 report, based on internal Amazon documents, showed that the company had known since at least 2017 that its website design misled customers into joining Prime, the membership program that offers perks such as free delivery and video streaming.
Despite years of complaints, Amazon took little meaningful action, and in some cases, abandoned proposed fixes after internal tests showed slower subscription growth, according to Business Insider's investigation. Following the story, the FTC revived a long-dormant probe, according to its earlier complaint."On March 14, 2022, Business Insider published information leaked from current and former Amazon employees regarding the problems with Amazon's Prime checkout enrollment flow and the Iliad Flow," the FTC wrote in a previous filing. "The Commission quickly ascertained that Amazon had failed to disclose much of the now-leaked documents and information to the Commission, despite the fact that at least some of it was responsive to the outstanding CID. Amazon withheld the information."As part of Thursday's settlement, Amazon will pay a $1 billion penalty and refund consumers $1.5 billion, the FTC announced. The deal, reached three days after a Seattle jury was seated, bans Amazon and two executives from continuing the unlawful practices. It also requires Amazon to implement "meaningful changes" to its Prime enrollment and cancellation processes, ensuring transparent disclosures and streamlined procedures.
"The evidence showed that Amazon used sophisticated subscription traps designed to manipulate consumers into enrolling in Prime, and then made it exceedingly hard for consumers to end their subscription," FTC Chairman Andrew Ferguson said in a statement.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
An Amazon spokesperson told BI in an email that there was "no admission of guilt in this settlement by the company or any executives.""Amazon and our executives have always followed the law and this settlement allows us to move forward and focus on innovating for customers. We work incredibly hard to make it clear and simple for customers to both sign up or cancel their Prime membership, and to offer substantial value for our many millions of loyal Prime members around the world. We will continue to do so, and look forward to what we'll deliver for Prime members in the coming years," the spokesperson said.
Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at ekim@businessinsider.com or Signal, Telegram, or WhatsApp at 650-942-3061. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Amazon
Jeff Bezos
Amazon Prime
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account