Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at NPR : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at NPR At NPR, diversity is not a program or initiative. It is an inextricable part of our mission to serve the American public.
Our Commitment To Diversity
Updated April 25, 20241:04 PM ET
Originally published February 24, 20219:06 AM ET
Enlarge this image
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
NPR
Diversity In Action At NPR In our journalism, diversity means accurately and authentically reporting on the country and the world, which is only possible with the robust inclusion of the stories and voices of, about and by people who, because of the actions of individuals and systems, are so often under-covered, misrepresented or left out. Inclusion means embracing ideas that run counter to or outside of long-held notions and narratives created without the benefit of the diversity of people and perspectives we now seek. In our content, diversity means including people in their difference and in their ordinariness, mitigating the biases and prejudices that can warp coverage and distort truth. In hiring, we are striving to create a workforce that, at every level, looks more like America, even as we work to overcome a legacy of exclusion. Diversity means that we are doing the hard work of rooting out bigotry and bias in structures, systems and processes and replacing them with equity, empowerment, and fairness. It means that everyone is learning and growing, expanding their understanding of themselves and others and shedding the flawed and consequential views and practices that have made so much of this work necessary. At NPR, diversity is not a program or initiative. It is an inextricable part of our mission to serve the American public.
Our Ongoing Work Learn in depth about the new and continuing initiatives that NPR has established to better embody its values. These programs and policies strive to ensure that NPR is diverse, equitable, and inclusive, as a workplace and a public service institution.
Our Staff Diversity Each year, NPR publishes a report to reflect the most current data on our staff diversity. Our commitment to building an NPR that reflects, serves, and inspires America begins with our people, and we must be able to measure our progress.
Our Accessibility Statement To ensure that our content is accessible to all audiences, we have implemented practices and procedures to aid in the accessibility of our content and distribution platforms.
Our News Source Tracking Since 2013, NPR has tracked the demographics of sources appearing on our newsmagazine shows. Our newsroom mission statement says that we seek to "look and sound like America," and our source-tracking work is one way to hold ourselves accountable to that goal.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor