Transportation - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Tech
Transportation
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Breeze Airways becomes the first new US flag carrier in a decade — just as rival Spirit fights its 2nd bankruptcy
2 min read
Automakers are tapping the brakes on the EV revolution. Here are all the manufacturers rolling back their plans.
3 min read
Honda ends production of its Acura EV in the US, citing 'market conditions'
Honda ended production on its Acura ZDX electric crossover, which General Motors was producing, days before a $7,500 EV tax credit expires.
2 min read
China's booming EV industry flexed its muscles once again by breaking the record for the world's fastest car
BYD's Yangwang U9 "Xtreme" supercar recorded a blistering top speed of 496.22km/h (308 miles per hour) at a test track in Germany earlier this month.
2 min read
I toured the only nuclear-missile submarine in the US open to the public. Take a look inside.
Armed with nuclear missiles, the USS Growler acted as a deterrent to keep other nations from using their nuclear weapons during the Cold War.
9 min read
I bought a BYD Dolphin Surf and took it on a European road trip. I was surprised by how relaxing driving 1,000 miles in an EV was.
Rafael Verástegui and his wife took their new BYD on a 1,000 mile European roadtrip from Spain to Germany.
4 min read
This Chinese EV has gullwing doors and a light show. I drove it to see if it's a Tesla rival.
The Hyptec HT is part of one of China's largest carmakers' push into the premium EV market, aimed squarely at Tesla's Model Y and BYD's Sealion 7.
5 min read
Spirit has already axed flights and asked pilots to take a pay cut. Now it's furloughing 1,800 flight attendants.
Spirit Airlines is cutting costs wherever it can as it battles through its second bankruptcy in less than a year.
2 min read
American Airlines ordered to pay $11 million to a passenger who had a stroke on a Transatlantic flight
Jesus Plasencia requires around-the-clock care after having a stroke on an American Airlines flight. Jurors found the crew didn't follow protocols.
2 min read
I'm an Uber and Lyft driver who tried a robotaxi for the first time. I'm not impressed.
Jason Munderloh, a ride-hailing driver and union organizer, was unimpressed with his rides in a Waymo robotaxi and Tesla's ride-hailing service.
6 min read
BYD and Tesla are duking it out in their next battleground: India
BYD is on track to surpass Elon Musk's automaker as the world's largest seller of battery electric cars this year, and is expanding rapidly overseas.
5 min read
Travel chaos as 'cyberattack' disrupts European airports, including London's Heathrow
Brussels Airport said a "cyberattack" had targeted a service provider for check-in and boarding systems.
1 min read
American Airlines sued by 16 passengers over Denver engine fire
Passengers on March's American Airlines Flight 1006 are suing the airline, saying pilots should've declared an emergency earlier.
2 min read
Waymo's aggressive strategy to get you inside a robotaxi is coming into view
Waymo is using partnerships with ride-hailing giants like Uber and Lyft as one strategy to get more riders inside its robotaxis.
3 min read
Spirit Airlines tells pilots it wants to cut their pay and shave $100 million from their union deal
A Spirit executive wrote to its pilots' union proposing negotiations, adding that it could ask a bankruptcy court to change or reject the contract.
3 min read
Tesla is redesigning its door handles after some parents reported children getting trapped inside
Tesla does build its cars with a manual door release in case of emergencies, but owners have complained that these can be hard to find.
2 min read
Spirit Airlines is cutting flights by 25% as it restructures again
Spirit Airlines will cut a fourth of its flights, CEO Dave Davis said in a memo to staff. He also hinted at a round of layoffs.
2 min read
Tesla dodges trial and settles lawsuit over a deadly Autopilot crash
The case between Tesla and a California family whose 15-year-old son was killed in a 2019 crash had been scheduled to go to trial next month.
3 min read
Waymo is launching robotaxis with Uber rival Lyft
Waymo has partnered with Lyft, Uber's competitor, to launch robotaxis in Nashville next year.
3 min read
'Pay attention': Spirit pilots got a slap on the wrist after flying too close to Air Force One while Trump was on board
As Donald Trump flew to the UK on Tuesday, an air traffic controller told off Spirit Airlines pilots for flying too close to the president's jet.
2 min read
The 20 biggest airports in the US and Canada, ranked by how satisfied passengers are
Newark Liberty International ranked the worst mega airport, and Minneapolis-Saint Paul was the best in J.D. Power's study of over 30,000 surveys.
8 min read
The door handles on some Tesla Model Ys are being investigated after parents reported children getting trapped inside
Nine 2021 Model Y vehicle owners reported issues with Tesla's handles to the NHTSA, including incidents where children were trapped in the vehicles.
3 min read
United's CEO says travel demand has roared back like a 'light switch coming on'
United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby said improving travel demand suggests the economy is doing better than other statistics have implied.
2 min read
I visited the largest military aviation museum in the world with over 350 aircraft and missiles on display. Here are the coolest things I saw.
The National Museum of the US Air Force features historic Air Force One planes, ICBM missiles, and a B-2 stealth bomber. Take a look inside.
6 min read
Tesla stock is back in positive territory for the year after plunging 45%. 5 key events explain its roller-coaster ride.
To say Tesla's stock is up a measly 4% this year doesn't do justice to the comeback it's had to mount.
5 min read
A Chinese airline is launching a 12,000-mile, 29-hour-long flight across the Pacific
China Eastern Airlines is set to operate a 29-hour flight from Argentina to Shanghai, with a stopover in New Zealand, starting in December.
2 min read
Elon Musk buys $1 billion worth of Tesla shares as he looks to gain more control over the EV maker
Tesla's share price rose roughly 6% in premarket trading on Monday after an SEC filing revealed Musk's purchase.
3 min read
Even the Pope has an opinion on Elon Musk's proposed $1 trillion pay package
Pope Leo, in his first interview since assuming the papacy, discussed Tesla's proposed pay package for Elon Musk and growing global wealth inequality.
3 min read
Tesla and Stellantis learn Americans like their trucks the old-fashioned way: powered by gas
Stellantis announced on Friday that it will discontinue its Ram 1500 REV, citing slowing demand in North America.
4 min read
See on board the $60 million Dassault Falcon 8X private jet. It costs $14,000 an hour to hire, and has owners like F1 star Max Verstappen.
Dassault says the Falcon 8X has the quietest cabin of any private jet, with a spacious back room where two couches can transform into a huge bed.
4 min read
Tesla board chair says Elon Musk being involved in things outside of the company 'actually helps Tesla'
"I know that sounds perverse," Tesla chair Robyn Denholm said on "Bloomberg Talks" on Friday, but she said "it actually benefits Tesla."
3 min read
Take a look inside Air Force Two, the 155-foot custom jet plane that vice presidents use to travel the world
Vice President JD Vance flies in a C-32, a customized military version of a commercial jetliner featuring a communications center and stateroom.
5 min read
Boeing's CEO says it might have to delay its much-anticipated new plane, the 777X, once again
The Boeing 777X will be the largest twin-engine passenger jet when it launches. It is already several years behind schedule, and that could get worse.
2 min read
Palmer Luckey's vehicle collection includes a Navy special forces boat, a Black Hawk, and a 1967 Disneyland car
Palmer Luckey's extensive vehicle collection includes a UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter, a 1985 Humvee, and a 1967 Disneyland car.
4 min read
A Tesla engineer quit after 8 years and slammed Elon Musk's leadership on the way out
A Tesla engineer quit after eight years, saying Elon Musk has damaged the company's mission.
3 min read
EV sales are setting records ahead of the tax credit going away. It isn't helping Tesla.
Electric vehicle sales in the US hit a record in August as buyers rushed to take advantage of the $7,500 tax credit before it ends in September.
2 min read
Amazon's Zoox launches robotaxi with free rides in Las Vegas. San Francisco is next.
Zoox's robotaxi can take riders to five destinations on The Strip. A spokesperson said most of the 50 robotaxis deployed will be in Vegas.
2 min read
See inside Dwight D. Eisenhower's Air Force One, the only plane of its kind ever built
President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Air Force One plane, Columbine III, was named in honor of Mamie Eisenhower's home state of Colorado.
4 min read
After a spate of power bank fires, the FAA says airlines need to be stricter about passengers' batteries on planes
After 50 incidents involving lithium batteries this year, the FAA recommended that airlines ensure passengers keep devices like power banks visible.
2 min read
A 20-year-old movie about warring magicians explains Elon Musk and the world of robots, a Morgan Stanley analyst says
A Morgan Stanley analyst came up with a unique way of explaining Elon Musk's robotics vision —comparing it to the 2006 classic "The Prestige."
3 min read
Tesla and Waymo are gunning for coveted airport access
Tesla and Waymo are vying for access to Bay Area-based airports, a lucrative hub for ride-hailing businesses.
4 min read
Rivian CEO says Chinese EV makers aren't doing something 'magical' to achieve cheaper vehicles
Rivian CEO RJ Scaringe says Chinese automakers can take advantage of low labor costs and domestic subsidies to an extent Western competitors cannot.
3 min read
Watch dozens of containers slide off a ship into a California port
More than 60 containers toppled off a vessel at Port of Long Beach. The containers fell off the Mississippi, an 837-foot Portugal-flagged ship.
2 min read
See inside Harry Truman's historic Air Force One plane featuring a stateroom and a cartoon eagle paint job
Harry Truman's Air Force One plane, a Douglas VC-118 named The Independence, was only the second aircraft built specifically for the president's use.
3 min read
7 rivals to the Tesla Model Y that are taking aim at the EV crown
Tesla refreshed its Model Y just as the electric SUV market is starting to see some sharp new competition from Mercedes, BMW, and Xiaomi.
3 min read
Palmer Luckey just got the first delivery of a $128,000 electric aircraft — watch his test drive of the Jetson One
Palmer Luckey was the first delivery customer for the Jetson One, a solo electric aircraft. He took it for a quick flight around Carlsbad, California.
4 min read
Tesla's EV market share in the US falls to its lowest level in 8 years
Tesla's share of the US electric vehicle market has slid to its lowest point in years, according to Cox Automotive data shared with Reuters.
2 min read
BYD targets Tesla's backyard as it doubles down on Europe
BYD said it would nearly triple the number of sales and service locations in Germany, the home of Tesla's European gigafactory, by the end of 2026.
2 min read
The story of Optimus, the humanoid robot at the heart of Elon Musk's growth plans for Tesla
For Elon Musk, the future of Tesla isn't its global fleet of EVs. It's Optimus, the humanoid robot designed to help humans tackle everyday tasks.
6 min read
Hyundai has for decades poured billions into America's South. Then ICE rattled its biggest US project yet.
The ICE raid on a Hyundai plant, one of the "largest" in history, is reverberating far beyond the rural Georgia town where it took place.
5 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.