Daily briefing: A ‘time crystal’ made visible to the naked eye
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
16 September 2025
Daily briefing: A ‘time crystal’ made visible to the naked eye
Physicists have created a form of matter once thought physically impossible. Plus, the rise of religious chatbots and the debate over ‘mirror life’ heats up.
By
Flora Graham
Flora Graham
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.‘God’s influencer’ Carlo Acutis was canonized on 7 September by Pope Leo XIV. Acutis was known for his use of digital media to promote Catholic devotion.Credit: Vatican Pool/GettyDeus ex machina: chatbots in church‘God’s influencer’ Carlo Acutis was canonized on 7 September by Pope Leo XIV. Acutis was known for his use of digital media to promote Catholic devotion. The work of a devoted teenage tech-wizard is just one way that new technologies are finding their way into religious practice: Jesus chatbots are growing in popularity and have even been used to offer spiritual guidance within churches. In some temples, robotic arms perform the Hindu aarti ritual, in which the perfection of the action is more important than the person performing it. But some worshippers are ambivalent about inviting simulacrums into sacred spaces.Nature | 5 min readDebate heats up over ‘mirror life’At a meeting this week in the United Kingdom, scientists are deliberating whether to restrict research that could eventually enable ‘mirror life’ — synthetic cells built from molecules that are mirror images of those found in the natural world. “Pretty much everybody agrees” that mirror-image cells would be “a bad thing”, says synthetic biologist John Glass. Such a cell might proliferate uncontrollably in the body or spread unchecked through the environment, because the body’s enzymes and immune system might not as readily recognize right-handed amino acids or left-handed DNA. But there are disagreements about where to set limits on research — the ability to evade degradation could also make such molecules useful as therapeutic drugs.Nature | 7 min readRead more: Life scientist Ting Zhu, whose work explores various mirror-image molecular processes, considers how to bridge divergent views on such research. (Nature | 11 min read)See a ‘time crystal’ for the first timeUsing liquid crystals — bar-shaped molecules with properties between those of a liquid and those of a solid — researchers have created a time crystal, a form of matter that shows continuous, repeating patterns over time, that is visible with the naked eye. Simply by shining a light on the liquid crystals, the team created ripples of twisting molecules through them. The ripples kept moving for hours, undulating with a distinct beat, even when the researchers changed the conditions. The rhythm was also out of sync with any incoming force — fulfilling the two defining criteria for a time crystal.Nature | 5 min readReference: Nature Materials paperA time crystal as seen under a microscope.Credit: Ref. 1Features & opinionA one-two punch against dengueIn Brazil, a huge biofactory is breeding mosquitoes by the millions. These are no ordinary mosquitoes: they’re infected with Wolbachia, a bacterium that lowers the odds that they can transmit the virus that causes dengue. The infected flies are one half of Brazil’s plan to tackle the disease, which racked up 6.6 million probable cases in 2024. The other is a locally produced vaccine, which is awaiting approval from the country’s regulator. As climate change and migration drives the risk of dengue ever higher, these twin advances could be the key to thwarting transmission in Brazil — and around the world.Nature | 11 min readThe forces working against scienceScience under Siege, a new book by paediatrician and vaccine specialist Peter Hotez and climate scientist Michael Mann, dissects the forces working to undermine science in the United States and beyond. “As the president of the Union of Concerned Scientists — a science-advocacy non-profit organization that spends its time fighting these known enemies — I found this thorough naming and shaming resonant and indeed cathartic,” writes Gretchen Goldman in her review. The book is “light in specifics on how to fight these forces”, writes Goldman, but provides hopeful examples of when science has prevailed, and of failures to learn from.Nature | 6 min readHow to build a better GPSTiming is everything — no more so than in today’s digitally connected world, in which everything from financial markets to emergency services depends on accurate, resilient timing from satellite systems such as the Global Positioning System (GPS). “But this success has bred complacency — and led to underappreciated risk,” argue Leon Lobo, Douglas Paul and Chander Velu, three leading researchers in the field of timing and positioning. They set out how to help to facilitate the development of alternative, land-based time sources worldwide by increasing buy-in from business, linking up existing, heterogeneous local timing systems and creating entirely new uses for time.Nature | 11 min readQuote of the day“If equity in science is a beautiful lie, then let us be the ones who stop pretending — starting with the next invitation we receive.”Institutions and privileged scientists claim to want to reform how scholars from historically overexploited countries are treated — but after too many invitations that offered only superficial opportunities, landscape ecologist Dolors Armenteras has come to the conclusion that it’s “time to build sideways, not upwards”. (Nature | 5 min read)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03023-6Today I’m gaining a deeper appreciation of Jackson Pollock’s paintings, thanks to chemists who have confirmed that the artist used manganese blue. The vibrant, synthetic pigment — once used to colour the cement for swimming pools — was phased out by the 1990s because of environmental concerns.This week I’m swimming in the blue (but not dangerously so) waters of the Danube river in Vienna. While I ponder the Pollock-y splashes of nature’s beauty, why not send your feedback on this newsletter to briefing@nature.com.Thanks for reading,Flora Graham, senior editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Jacob Smith• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Daily briefing: Regenerative revolution aims to future-proof European agriculture
Jobs
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Daily briefing: Regenerative revolution aims to future-proof European agriculture
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited