U.S. attorney resigns under pressure from Trump to charge N.Y. AG Letitia James : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
U.S. attorney resigns under pressure from Trump to charge N.Y. AG Letitia James Erik Siebert resigned after President Trump said he wanted him "out" after a monthslong mortgage fraud investigation into New York Attorney General Letitia James failed to result in criminal charges.
Law
U.S. attorney resigns under pressure from Trump to charge N.Y. AG Letitia James
September 20, 20258:01 AM ET
By
The Associated Press
Erik Siebert, then interim U.S. Attorney for the eastern district of Virginia, speaks at a news conference on March 27 at an FBI field office in Manassas, Va. Siebert resigned Friday after President Trump said he wanted him "out" after the U.S. attorney's mortgage fraud investigation into New York Attorney General Letitia James failed to result in criminal charges.
Rod Lamkey/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Rod Lamkey/AP
WASHINGTON — A federal prosecutor in Virginia whose monthslong mortgage fraud investigation into New York Attorney General Letitia James has not resulted in criminal charges resigned Friday under pressure from the Trump administration. Erik Siebert confirmed his departure in an email to colleagues, reviewed by The Associated Press, in which he praised them as the "finest and most exceptional" of Justice Department employees but made no mention of the political turmoil that preceded his resignation.
Politics
Justice Department launches grand jury probe of N.Y. Attorney General Letitia James
The replacement of Siebert as U.S. attorney for the prestigious Eastern District of Virginia office comes amid a push by Trump administration officials to indict James, a perceived adversary of the president who has successfully sued him for fraud. President Donald Trump told reporters in the Oval Office on Friday that he wanted Siebert "out" and multiple people familiar with the matter later told the AP that Siebert had informed his colleagues of his plan to resign from the position.
Sponsor Message
The administration's effort to oust him from the job represents a further erosion of norms meant to insulate the Justice Department from White House influence on prosecutorial decisions. The move is likely to deepen concerns that the department — already investigating other public figures Trump regards as foes — is being weaponized by a White House seeking to have its prosecutorial powers used for purposes of retribution. It was not immediately clear Friday afternoon who would replace Siebert, who was nominated by Trump to the top job in the office this year after having worked there for more than a decade. Siebert's top deputy, Maya Song, is also leaving her position as first assistant U.S. attorney and will work as a line prosecutor, one of the people familiar with the matter said. Justice Department spokespeople declined to comment. Trump administration officials have been aggressively pursuing allegations against James arising from alleged paperwork discrepancies on her Brooklyn townhouse and a Virginia home. The Justice Department has spent months conducting the investigation but has yet to bring charges, and there's been no indication that prosecutors have managed to uncover any degree of incriminating evidence that could support bringing an indictment.
Law
These fired DOJ lawyers are finding new ways to make a difference
Asked about the issue at the White House Friday, Trump, without citing any evidence, said, "It looks to me like she's really guilty of something, but I really don't know." Trump also said he was bothered that Siebert had been supported by the state's two Democratic senators. James' lawyers have vigorously denied any allegations and characterized the investigation as an act of political revenge. ABC News was first to report that Trump administration officials were pressuring prosecutors to bring charges and that the Republican administration was preparing to oust Siebert.
Sponsor Message
James has long been a particular source of outrage for Trump, in part because of a lawsuit she filed against him and his company that resulted in a massive financial penalty last year. That penalty was thrown out last month by an appeals court that narrowly upheld a judge's finding that Trump had engaged in fraud by exaggerating his wealth for decades. The case has taken a series of unorthodox turns. It emerged last month that Ed Martin, who leads the Justice Department's Weaponization Working Group and is helping coordinate the investigation, had sent a letter urging James to resign from office "as an act of good faith" after starting his mortgage fraud investigation of her. He later turned up outside James' Brooklyn townhouse in a "Columbo"-esque trench coat. A New York Post writer at the scene observed him tell a neighbor: "I'm just looking at houses, interesting houses. It's an important house."
Politics
Beyond 'draining the swamp': How Trump is knocking down checks on presidential power
James' lawyer, Abbe Lowell, told Martin in a letter that the request for James' resignation defied Justice Department standards and codes of professional responsibility and legal ethics. The Justice Department "has firm policies against using investigations and against using prosecutorial power for achieving political ends," Lowell wrote. "This is ever more the case when that demand is made to seek political revenge against a public official in the opposite party." A former District of Columbia police officer, Siebert joined the Eastern District of Virginia, an elite Justice Department prosecution office with a history of sophisticated national security and criminal cases, in 2010. He was nominated to the role of U.S. attorney by Trump this year with the backing of the state's two Democratic senators, Mark Warner and Tim Kaine. The office has separately been involved in investigating matters related to the years-old investigation into potential ties between Russia and Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, a longstanding grievance of the president. No charges have been announced as part of that work.
Sponsor Message
Although U.S. attorneys are presidential appointees, they are rarely fired. But the Trump administration has repeatedly disregarded norms and traditions meant to protect Justice Department prosecutors from White House political influence.
Investigations
Trump DOJ hired lawyer who compared Jan. 6 prosecutions to the Holocaust
Prosecutors and other support personnel who worked on the special counsel team of Jack Smith that investigated and prosecuted Trump have been fired, as was Maurene Comey, a federal prosecutor in New York whose father, former FBI Director James Comey, was terminated by Trump months into his first term amid the Russia election interference investigation. Martin's investigation stems from a letter Federal Housing Finance Agency Director William Pulte sent to Attorney General Pam Bondi in April asking her to investigate and consider prosecuting James, alleging she had "falsified bank documents and property records." Pulte, whose agency regulates mortgage financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, cited "media reports" claiming James had falsely listed a Virginia home as her principal residence, and he suggested she may have been trying to avoid higher interest rates that often apply to second homes. Records show James was listed as a co-borrower on a house her niece was buying in 2023. Lowell said records and correspondence easily disproved Pulte's allegation. While James signed a power-of-attorney form that, Lowell said, "mistakenly stated the property to be Ms. James' principal residence," she sent an email to her mortgage loan broker around the same time that made clear the property "WILL NOT be my primary residence."
Letitia James
Justice Department
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor