Open Science publishing - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Open Science Publishing
We believe in a future where science is open to all, for all. Our comprehensive suite of tools and processes are designed to help researchers implement open science practices more easily and effectively to create a more open, collaborative, and impactful research ecosystem.
Open access
Research journals today vary widely across a spectrum from open access to restricted access based on the core components of reader rights, reuse rights, copyrights and more.All our journals publish research under a Gold OA model. Content is published immediately and freely under a CC-BY license, ensuring you retain the copyright to your research and can share your work freely. Under this license, your scientific article is available to anyone, anywhere, to read, share, reuse and remix without restriction, as long as the author and the original source are properly attributed.
Open methods
Practicing open methods means sharing detailed processes, procedures and materials used in your research investigation under an open access license.Methods can include any tools or instructions that would be needed to reproduce your investigation or add context such as study designs, step-by-step protocols, code and software, materials and reagents, and more.We urge authors to share complete, detailed methods within their research article, or as a separate output to enhance reproducibility and reusability. We highly encourage authors to include step-by-step details of their investigation including a description of any tools, materials and reagents that enable others to reproduce the findings.
Open code
Open code means ensuring custom, author-generated code used in a scientific research study is made publicly available under an open access license. Code can be shared in a linked repository or as Supporting Information alongside the published article.Sharing code ensures your study is reproducible, and open to all for validation, collaboration and reuse. This can help you expand your influence to new disciplines and even earn more citations for your work.We encourage all authors to share code that underpins their study’s findings, either within their research article or linked from a repository. For select PLOS journals, sharing author-generated code underlying their findings is required by our Open Code Policy.
Open data
Open data, or data sharing, means ensuring research data is incorporated into the permanent scientific record by releasing it under an open access license. Data can be shared in a purpose-built data repository or as Supporting Information alongside a published article.Open data practices help make sure your data is aligned to the FAIR data principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable). Sharing your data in a repository makes your data easier to discover, reuse, and cite for the long term.All PLOS journals follow our Data Availability Policy which requires authors to make all data necessary to replicate their study’s findings publicly available without restriction at the time of publication.
Preprints
A preprint is a version of a scientific manuscript posted on a public server before formal peer review. As soon as it’s posted, a preprint becomes a permanent part of the scientific record, citable with a unique DOI.Preprints are a free, easy option for authors to communicate and get credit for their work earlier which can be useful to grant proposals, job applications, or increasing visibility. They’re also a good way to broaden the audience for your research and receive feedback from a range of experts.We highly encourage authors to share their work as a preprint when they’re ready: before, during, or after journal submission.
Open study design
Making your study design open refers to registering or sharing the plan for your study as early as possible in the research process, in order to showcase the integrity of your results.Sharing your study design can take different forms. Whether you register your hypothesis or share elements of your study design publicly, sharing your approach early can reduce bias in research reporting and increase trust in your work.
Preregistration
Preregistration differs from a traditional research article as it requires formally depositing a study design in a repository or submitting it to a journal before conducting experiments, data collection, or analysis.Preregistration provides a path to publication that ensures your work is evaluated based on the strength of your research question and the rigor of your approach–not positive results. Choosing to submit your study design for peer review also enables you to get expert feedback early and strengthen your approach.PLOS One and PLOS Biology both offer opportunities for authors to preregister their study design. Authors receive peer review feedback on their approach before the investigation begins and a pathway to publication of the final results.
Protocols
Authors can make detailed study designs or step-by-step instructions for carrying out a specific experimental process or procedure more transparent and easily citable by choosing to publish their protocols.Research protocols can include workflows, guidelines, or other elements of your study design and methodology that enable other researchers to reproduce your results or carry out the technique in different contexts. Published protocols receive peer review feedback and a unique DOI to add to your publication record.Researchers who wish to publish in PLOS One are offered two routes to publish: Study Protocols and Lab Protocols.
Open peer review
Open peer review is a system where the traditional peer review process is made more transparent. It typically involves reviewers consenting to review their identity, authors making their comments public, and sometimes allowing the wider community to participate in the review process.Open peer review aims to enhance the credibility, fairness, and transparency of the peer review process
Published Peer Review History
‘Published Peer Review History’ is a form of open peer review at PLOS that enables authors to make all correspondence exchanged during the peer review process of their research article available as a permanent part of the scientific record. This includes decision letters from each revision, peer reviews and the authors’ responses to reviewers.Providing greater insight into the peer review process demonstrates the rigorous evaluation your manuscript has undergone and also makes reviewers more accountable for their comments, implicitly discouraging bias.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top