The Jenkins Blog
Alex Earl
Alex comes from a .NET background but likes to get his hands dirty in many different languages and frameworks. He currently
does embedded development in a silicon validation group. He is an internal evangelist for Jenkins at his company. Alex
is a community contributor to Jenkins, working on plugin hosting and maintaining several plugins. He is also involved in
a few SIGS. Alex enjoys working on open source software in his "free" time as well as spending time with his family.
Jenkins Board and Officer Elections 2025 - Nominations Open
We are excited to announce the 2025 Jenkins Governance Board and Officer elections!
Nominations
Nominations can be submitted for governance board positions and all officer positions (Security, Events, Release, Infrastructure, and Documentation).
During the registration period, we invite community members to nominate candidates by sending a message to the election-committee group.
In your message, please include the name of the nominee, the specific position...
Alex Earl
August 8, 2025
2024 Jenkins Election Candidate Statements
Candidate nominations for the 2024 Jenkins elections are now complete.
Thanks to everyone who submitted nominations and to the candidates that have accepted the nominations.
Register to vote
Voters must register an account on the Jenkins community forums and must have made at least one contribution to Jenkins before September 1, 2024.
You can use an existing GitHub account or create a new account...
Basil CrowMark WaiteValentin DelayeKris SternAlexander BrandesOleg NenashevAlex EarlStefan SpiekerTim Jacomb
October 3, 2024
2020 Jenkins Board and Officer Elections Results
The Jenkins community has recently completed the 2020 elections.
On behalf of the Jenkins community and the elections committee,
we congratulate all newly elected board members and officers!
We also thank all candidates and voters who participated this year.
Election results:
Gavin Mogan and Marky Jackson will join
Kohsuke Kawaguchi,
Ullrich Hafner and Oleg Nenashev
on the Jenkins Governance Board
Tim Jacomb was elected as Release Officer
Marky...
Oleg NenashevAlex EarlUllrich Hafner
December 3, 2020
Windows Installer Upgrades
This article describes the transition from the old Jenkins Windows installer 2.235.2 (32 bit) to the new Jenkins Windows installer 2.235.3 (64 bit)
Let’s take a look how Jenkins installation on Windows happened before release of this upgrade.
Step 1
It’s evident that branding information is not present here.
Step 2
Jenkins would be installed into the 32 bit programs directory along with a 32...
Vlad SilvermanAlex Earl
August 12, 2020
Windows Docker Agent Images: General Availability
We would like to announce the availability of official Windows agent images for Docker.
These images allow provisioning Jenkins agents with Windows OS on Docker and Kubernetes.
New images
All official Docker images for agents now provide nanoserver-1809 and windowsservercore-1809 tags which include Windows images and, at the moment, Java 8 (these are like the latest tag).
We also provide tags with explicit Java...
Alex Earl
May 11, 2020
Windows Installer Updates
The Windows Installer for Jenkins has been around for many years as a way for users to install a Jenkins controller on Windows as a service.
Since it’s initial development, it has not received a lot of updates or features, but that is about to change.
First, let’s take a look at the current installer experience.
Step 1
This is the default look and...
Alex Earl
February 1, 2019