Bad news for coffee drinkers: The record-high prices you're paying will go even higher when tariffs take their toll | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
Bad news for coffee drinkers: The record-high prices you're paying will go even higher when tariffs take their toll
Bad news for coffee drinkers: The record-high prices you're paying will go even higher when tariffs take their toll
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 21, 2025, 7:20:00 PM
By Myra P. Saefong
Retail coffee prices climbed to $8.872 a pound in August
Times are tough for the wallets of coffee drinkers.
When President Donald Trump announced broad plans to implement tariffs on U.S. imports from several countries back in April, coffee roaster Chad Seegers's first thought was that coffee surely wouldn't be on the list - because the U.S. barely grows it.
Yet the Trump administration's April rollout of tariffs led to a 10% duty on most imported coffee, including from Brazil, which is among the biggest providers of the commodity. Then in August, the Trump administration raised its import taxes on Brazil to 50%.
Even though the coffee industry knew the president had planned to implement global tariffs on imports, it wasn't really possible to prepare for them because coffee prices were already high.
"It was tough to take action and try to reserve coffee in advance of tariffs," said Seegers, who co-owns Low Country Coffee Roasters in Charleston, S.C., with his mother and stepfather.
Raw coffee beans can be stored in a climate-controlled environment for up to a year before they're roasted, but prices have seen a "parabolic move" in recent years that pushed out a lot of reserve supplies, he noted.
Since 2020, global coffee production has suffered from recurring weather problems, said Fernando Maximiliano, coffee-market intelligence manager at StoneX. "Practically every year, there were droughts in different intensities, as well as frosts, heat waves, high temperatures and other climate extremes that affected coffee production - not only in Brazil, but also in other producing countries around the world."
'Clearly, the supply-side shocks caused by climate issues had already been creating an adverse scenario, but the new tariffs have amplified the problem.'Fernando Maximiliano, StoneX
The "persistent supply shock" had already been fueling an inflationary process in the coffee market, Maximiliano told MarketWatch. StoneX estimates that global coffee inventories were at around 36 million to 37 million bags in 2024, down from about 58 million to 59 million bags in 2020. One bag is around 60 kilograms, or 132 pounds.
As a result, prices increased - and with that inflationary process already underway, the "imposition of tariffs further intensified the difficulties for the American coffee industry," said Maximiliano, who's based in Brazil.
The average U.S. city consumer price for 100% ground roast coffee was at a record high of $8.872 per pound in August, according to data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statics, via the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. That was the highest level based on records dating back to January 1980. In December, it was priced at $6.776.
The average U.S. city price for 100% ground roast coffee was $8.872 a pound in August 2025 - the highest level based on records dating back to January 1980.
"Clearly, the supply-side shocks caused by climate issues had already been creating an adverse scenario, but the new tariffs have amplified the problem," said Maximiliano.
On Thursday, coffee "C" futures, the world benchmark for Arabica coffee, saw the December contract (KCZ25) (KC00) settle at $3.81 a pound on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange. Prices have climbed 19.1% year to date after hitting a record high of $4.29 on Feb. 10 of this year, according to Dow Jones Market Data. Last year, futures prices posted a climb of 40%.
"Ongoing market uncertainty, combined with the diverse characteristics of coffee from different origins, is causing a slow adjustment among U.S. buyers," wrote Thijs Geijer, senior sector economist for food and agriculture at ING, in a recent note.
He said recent trade data offers an "early glimpse into these shifts," with coffee exports from Brazil to the U.S. down by over 75% in August compared to 2024 levels. Brazilian traders have held on to their coffee stocks and farmers have delayed sales in anticipation of higher prices, Geijer noted.
Exports from Colombia and Vietnam, meanwhile, have remained "stable" though September, he added, but American coffee supplies are tightening. "The disparity in tariff rates is expected to drive U.S. buyers to reallocate sourcing away from Brazil toward more favorably taxed origins," Geijer said.
Low Country Coffee Roasters has had to raise its wholesale prices twice this year - marking the first price increases for its customers in six years, said Seegers, who is also managing partner for Insight Wealth Strategies.
"We have had several small, direct family growers from Cameroon to Costa Rica back out of supplying coffee beans to us in the U.S., simply because they don't want to pay tariffs just on principle," he told MarketWatch.
His coffee-roasting business has seen its profit margins cut in half - and the tariffs have "created a lot of unproductive work," said Seegers, since his company has to make sure it has the correct pricing due to tariffs, for example, on Indonesian coffee versus Honduran coffee.
"Raw-bean prices have doubled for us," he said, but his company has increased prices to its vendors by a smaller 30% to 40%, while retail prices have increased by 25%.
Seegers's customers - cafes, bakeries and restaurants - told him that the prices they charge for coffee have nearly doubled in some cases. So that's now a $7 latte, up from $4.50 some 18 months ago, he noted. Brazilian coffee was 80% of his company's best-selling blend, so his business has had to change some of its main coffee blends.
"We're simply going away from Brazil altogether, and using higher-quality coffee from other places in Mexico and Central and South America," said Seegers. "We had a bean from Brazil that was an absolute favorite for many businesses. Between the cost of the raw bean and the tariffs, our cost jumped to $17 [a pound]" - and that "isn't a level that could remotely be passed on."
So he sees coffee from Brazil as "simply not feasible" and said that, for now, "that coffee can't be imported and roasted."
'Not only are our own profit margins getting squeezed, [but] our customers' businesses are down due to higher prices.Chad Seegers, co-owner, Low Country Coffee Roasters
In his research note, ING's Geijer said roasters will be trying to renegotiate with their customers. "If they stick with the same-quality coffee, they'll want to pass on the higher input costs, or they may change blends and trade down to a lower-quality coffee to maintain price levels.
"Either way, it's not pretty for American coffee connoisseurs," Geijer added.
Low Country Coffee Roasters, for its part, will not sacrifice quality. "We just can't," Seegers said. "We chose to absorb the majority of the cost increases and tariffs, rather than [reduce] quality."
Seegers said that while his mother and stepfather have tried to make it a fun process - viewing it as a way to discover new coffees they haven't considered until now - the cost of it has been "heavy" this year. "Not only are our own profit margins getting squeezed, [but] our customers' businesses are down due to higher prices," he said.
ING's Geijer, meanwhile, had some more bad news: He suggested that tariffs haven't really reached the retail level yet.
In the U.S., "'high-tariff' coffee hasn't yet hit the shelves," as some roasters have been using existing inventories first, he said. The 50% tariff rate on Brazilian exports to the U.S. took effect on Aug. 6, he noted; it then takes about a month to ship the coffee, which then needs to be roasted, packed and distributed to retailers.
"Expect the tariff impact to start hitting those retailers in the fourth quarter," said Geijer.
In a July earnings call, Cathy Smith, chief financial officer of Starbucks Corp. (SBUX), the world's largest coffeehouse chain, said that because of her company's coffee-buying and hedging practices, moving-average coffee costs and tariff impacts will "lag the market." She said year-over-year coffee cost increases were expected to peak in the first half of fiscal 2026.
So while Seegers's roasting company won't sacrifice quality as costs climb, consumers may soon be at their breaking point as inflationary pressures take their toll.
"The consumer substitution of slightly lower-quality, cheaper products may be upon us," he said.
Victor Reklaitis and William Peters contributed.
-Myra P. Saefong
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-21-25 1520ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility