28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Gift Guide
TechMobile Headphones
28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life
These tech accessories and devices -- all hand-picked by CNET's expert editors -- will be on their permanent packing list.
Article updated on Sep 19, 2025
Jennifer Krazit Freelance Editor, Former Managing Editor Jennifer Krazit (née Guevin) is a freelance writer and editor. Previously, she was a managing editor at CNET, overseeing the How To section, special packages, social media and front-page programming. As a writer, she focused on stories about science, robotics, tech culture and kitchen tech.
See full bio
Written by Jennifer Krazit
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Best travel tech gifts under $25
Misc
Clckr Stand and Grip for MagSafe (2nd gen) CNET's David Carnoy says Clckr's new, trimmer Stand and Grip is one of his favorite MagSafe accessories. "The accessory really sticks to the back of your MagSafe-enabled phone or MagSafe-enabled case and not only makes it easier to hold up your phone but when converted into a kickstand, it props up your device nicely in portrait or landscape mode for video calls or video watching."
$20 at Amazon
Close
Misc
BevLedge airplane window organization station CNET's Faith Chihil says this is a must-have if you have a window seat on the plane. "It's so convenient to still have a drink holder when your tray table is up," she says. "It's also nice to have your battery, phone and headphones within reach without having to dig into the seat pocket. And I love that it folds flat too." This makes a great travel gift because your giftee isn't likely to have it already.
$20 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
EnergyQC Fast Charging Portable Charger 5000mAh If you're looking for a very compact power bank you can slide into your purse or pocket, this fast charging one by EnergyQC will do the trick. CNET's Anna Gragert says she’s used her EnergyQC power bank for years and says she always keeps it in her purse, whether she’s traveling or running errands. “It's slim and light, so it's easy to carry around and always does the job when my phone needs a charge on the go,” she explains. “It's a small, simple device that works great.”
$13 at Amazon
Close
Misc
MiiKare phone holder (2–pack) CNET's Faith Chihil says this phone holder is more secure than a phone kickstand, and you can use it with your tray closed at takeoff and landing. "As a content creator, it's also nifty for hands-free filming at conventions and for unboxings," she adds.
$13 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Anker 523 PowerCore Slim 10K PD Coming in at just slightly over $25, the Anker 523 PowerCore Slim 10K PD is one of CNET's favorite power banks because it's small but packs a lot of power. With a 10,000-mAh battery, you can fully charge an iPhone at least twice on a single charge. It also has a fast-charging USB-C port that can quickly get your phone or tablet back to life.
$20 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Vaultz mesh storage bags, 3-pack It helps to stay as organized as possible when traveling and these storage bags are great for wrangling together all sorts of small items. "Whether it is for organizing cables, flash drives or toiletries, these mesh bags have become a travel essential for long or short trips," says CNET's Chris Wedel.
$10 at Amazon
Close
Ougrand universal travel adapter The addition of USB and USB-C ports to travel adapters has been one of the nicer upgrades in recent years. This adapter will work pretty much anywhere in the world and includes a passthrough plug for you to plug in a laptop or other standard device too. (Note that this won't convert voltage, but that means it will still work with virtually any gadget, except for things like hair dryers and curling irons.)
$25 at Ougrand
Close
Headphones
Portable handheld mini fan If you know someone who always runs hot, they will appreciate this mini foldable fan (that also happens to have a flashlight). It has two speeds and is super compact, so they can easily slip it into a purse or pocket.
$16 at Amazon
Close
Best travel tech gifts under $50
Speakers
JBL Go 4 bluetooth speaker You can't ask for a better travel companion than the highly portable (and affordable) JBL Go 4 speaker. It's waterproof, sounds great for its (tiny) size, recharges via USB-C and comes in a variety of fun colors too. It's a great way to enjoy music in your hotel room, on a picnic and anywhere in between. And if you happen to get it wet, no problem -- it has an IP67 waterproof and dustproof rating. It also made our pick for best pocket-friendly wireless speaker. Plus, you can get the JBL Go 4 speaker for a great price right now. As CNET’s Ingrid Cruz points out, “At $40, it’s the lowest price we've seen for this speaker thus far and will likely be the best price for this speaker through the holiday season.”
$40 at Amazon
$40 at Best Buy
$40 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Mobile Accessories
Anker 622 Foldable Magnetic Wireless Portable Charger with Stand 5,000mAh
CNET’s David Carnoy says a benefit of the Anker 622 “is that it's a wireless battery that has an integrated magnetic flap that converts into a stand.” And although it’s not a fast charger, per se -- charging at up to 7.5 watts -- he points out that it's slim and easy to carry around. And the charging goes up to 12 watts if you use a USB-C-to-USB-C to charge your iPhone or Android. The Anker 622 charger also made our pick for best portable chargers and power banks for Androids.
$22 at Amazon
$30 at Walmart
Close
Mobile Accessories
Cocoon GRID-IT accessory organizer If you're one of those people who can stand to be a little more organized when traveling -- or know someone else who could be -- this accessory organizer is the answer. "I've had one of these for around 12 years or so and it's an easy way for me to put all of my chargers, small electronics or whatever, in one place," says CNET's Peter Butler. You can also check out his review of the Cocoon GRID-IT for more.
$27 at Amazon
$28 at Cocoon
Close
Matador Global Travel Adapter Gone are the days of buying (and inevitably losing) individual power adapters every time your favorite traveler goes to a new country. The Matador Global Travel Adapter will let them charge up to six devices at once, with a single cube that's functional in over 170 countries, making it perfect for hotel rooms with only one available outlet. It also includes three USB-A ports, plus one USB-C and a USB-C rapid charge port. Travel expert Pamela Vachon raves about its smart design and layout, and says she never flies without it.
$36 at Matador
Close
Best travel tech gifts under $100
Mobile Accessories
Earfun Air Pro 4 earbuds The Earfun Air Pro 4 earbuds are a step up from the Air 3 Pro, and they offer excellent performance with a surprising set of features -- like a wireless charging case and multipoint Bluetooth pairing -- at a reasonable price. Audio expert David Carnoy gave them an Editors' Choice Award, calling them the top-value noise-canceling earbuds around. Voice calling could be better, but all in all, these earbuds punch well above their weight in terms of price.
$63 at Amazon
Close
Computer Accessories
Apple AirTags 4-pack No one can ever have enough AirTags, especially that traveler you know who tends to misplace…everything. While you probably know that the tracking devices can be useful when you misplace your keys or wallet, one of the more creative ways to use AirTags is to slip one into your luggage. "To relieve the stress of trying to locate your suitcase, you can put an AirTag tracker inside so you can track its whereabouts," CNET's Katie Teague says. And when you purchase the AirTags through Apple, you can get them engraved for free with an emoji, initials or numbers, which is a nice way to personalize this gift.
$85 at B&H Photo-Video
$75 at Amazon
Close
Best travel tech gifts under $300
Home
Nomatic Travel Backpack CNET’s Joshua Goldman says that if you want one backpack that you can use for a variety of things, from your daily commute to your airplane carry-on, look no further than the Nomatic Travel Backpack. “I continue to be amazed at how well-designed this bag is every time I use it, and it truly feels like the company thought of everything,” he adds. A few of the benefits include the efficient internal design to hold all your tech (and other) gear and belongings, a retractable clip-on key leash and the handles on the top and sides so you have the option of carrying it as well.This bag is unique in that, when you expand it, you'll find yet another zipper that opens the backpack like a clamshell for easy packing. Although it’s a monetary investment, due to its versatility, it’s worth every penny.
$350 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Sony CH-720N headphones If you're on the hunt for headphones that sound good but don't cost a fortune, consider the Sony CH-720N. Editor David Carnoy named them the best midrange noise-canceling headphones and was pleasantly surprised by how good they sounded, considering their sub-$100 price tag. They don't have the premium feel that more expensive headphones offer, but they are lightweight, have a comfortable fit and provide very good noise cancellation and voice-calling performance.
$96 at Amazon
Close
Mobile Accessories
Twelve South AirFly Pro Deluxe Watching in-flight movies is a great way to pass the time, but the one downside is that you usually can't use wireless headphones. Enter the AirFly Pro, a small device that turns any 3.5mm audio port into a Bluetooth audio transmitter and receiver for wireless headphones. It also eliminates ambient sound around you, which is a big plus -- versus when you use the airline-given headphones.
$55 at Amazon
$55 at Best Buy
Close
Cameras
Fujifilm Instax Mini EVO instant camera For those who still like to take non-phone photos, this is a fun camera to bring along when traveling. It not only allows them to instantly print photos but also to save them onto their phone, making it a win-win.
$235 at Amazon
$235 at Best Buy
$235 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
E-readers
Amazon Kindle Paperwhite (2024) While the 2022 Kindle Paperwhite was a winner of our CNET Editors' Choice Award in the e-reader category, Amazon recently came out with a new version that's even better. The 2024 model is thinner, has a larger 7-inch display, and offers 25% faster page turns. According to CNET's David Carnoy, "The new Paperwhite does seem like a legitimate upgrade from the Paperwhite (2021) and I suspect people who've used that previous-gen Paperwhite will be tempted to make the jump to this model."
$160 at Amazon
$160 at Target
Close
RayNeo Pocket TV Help your giftee take their favorite entertainment with them on their travels with RayNeo's Pocket TV. Originally designed to work with the RayNeo Smart glasses, the output is just USB-C, meaning it will work with any USB-C monitor or, if they have a USB-C-to-HDMI cable, any standard TV. It's powered by Google TV -- so they can access all their favorite streaming apps -- with 64GB of memory and room for an SD card. This way, "you can save your shows for offline travel on a plane," explains CNET's James Bicknell. "I've used it a lot with the RayNeo glasses and it's a fantastic little ecosystem for watching your favorite shows privately while traveling."
$129 at RayNeo
Close
Apple AirPods Pro 2 (USB-C) AirPods Pro 2 with MagSafe (USB-C) are nearly identical to their predecessor -- you'll still get amazing voice-calling performance and sound, plus up to six hours of battery life. This all means they are among the best headphones to fly with, thanks to their superior noise-canceling abilities. Pop these in during a flight and let the cabin noise melt away. They made CNET’s pick for best Apple AirPods and you can also check out our review of the AirPods Pro 2.
$249 at Apple
$250 at Target
$214 at Walmart
Close
Headphones
Shokz OpenRun Pro bone-conduction headphones Traveling requires some situational awareness -- listening for boarding call announcements, people walking up behind you on the street and more. But you don't have to choose between listening to a podcast or hearing your environment with bone conduction headphones, which send sound waves through your cheekbones, not your ears. CNET's David Carnoy says that a big benefit of this technology is that you can be aware of -- and hear -- what's going on around you while listening to music or having a phone conversation. "They're very good for podcasts, talk radio, newscasts and audiobooks," he says. They also made our pick for best bone-conduction headphones.
$160 at Amazon
$160 at Best Buy
Close
Video Camera Accessories
GoPro Hero 11 Black For capturing memories on rugged travel adventures, it's hard to beat a GoPro. And while the GoPro Hero 13 is now available, the 2022 Hero 11 gives a large slice of the same features at a more affordable price and is still a great little action camera. Pro tip: You can shave down the price if you opt for the subscription option via GoPro.com (which includes automatic cloud uploading).
$289 at Walmart
$300 at Target
$300 at Best Buy
Close
Tablets
iPad (10th-gen, 2022) Whether your giftee is watching a movie on a flight, trying to distract the kids on a long road trip or just curling up on the couch, the iPad is a great travel-friendly gadget. This 10th-gen 2022 model comes with USB-C compatibility -- finally! -- which means it'll be easier to find a spot to charge it on the go. Editor Scott Stein also liked that it comes with a bigger screen and better speakers compared to the previous 9th-gen version. It's not a true laptop replacement, but the 10th-gen iPad gets a lot right, and it's especially good for families who'll be sharing it.
$269 at Walmart
Close
Best travel tech gifts under $500
Misc
Xreal One smart glasses CNET's Chris Wedel says he borrowed a pair of these glasses for an international flight, then quickly decided he'll no longer travel without them. "The ability to have as much display space as I need for work, and a comfortable viewing angle for watching movies or playing games, makes travel so much more bearable," he says. "The glasses are also great for working on the go once you arrive at your destination." For more details on them, you can check out CNET's review of the Xreal Air Pro 2 smart glasses.
$499 at Amazon
Close
E-readers
Amazon Kindle Scribe If you know someone who likes to write or draw when they're traveling, the Amazon Kindle Scribe can be their new digital notepad -- and whatever they create can also be uploaded to the cloud. Plus, the e-reader is front-lit with high resolution (300 pixels per inch), which is helpful. "The Scribe strikes a very good balance between a large-format e-reader and an E Ink note-taking tablet," says CNET's David Carnoy.Note that Amazon just came out with a second-gen version of the Scribe, and the included stylus is a decent upgrade. However, the 16B model costs around $60 more and isn't slated to ship until early December.
$450 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Sony WH-1000XM5 If you're looking for the best of the best when it comes to noise-canceling headphones, the current full-size Sony models are the king of the hill. Sony has made some dramatic improvements with voice-calling performance, as well as even better noise-canceling and more refined sound. And the battery will last your giftee up to 32 hours. This pair of Sony WH-1000XM5 also made CNET's pick for best noise-canceling headphones.
Full Review.
$328 at Amazon
$289 at Walmart
Close
Headphones
Insta360 Go 3S For something a bit different than the standard action cam, try the Insta360 Go 3S. This nifty little camera will let your gift recipient shoot eye-catching POV videos in 4K, which they can then easily edit on their phone with the accompanying app. Its slick design comes with a capsule-shaped camera that pops out of its "Action Pod" and can be mounted magnetically to unconventional places like railings, poles or streetlights to capture themselves without needing a tripod. The Insta360 Go 3S was only released last summer, but it has already made its way onto CNET editor and frequent traveler Prakhar Khanna's must-have list when packing for a new adventure.
$423 at Amazon
Close
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life
By
Jennifer Krazit
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Gifts Available on Amazon for 2025: From $10 to $250
By
James Bricknell
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.