This new Bill Miller-backed fund is banking on a simple but winning formula | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
This new Bill Miller-backed fund is banking on a simple but winning formula
This new Bill Miller-backed fund is banking on a simple but winning formula
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 23, 2025, 11:19:00 AM
By Barbara Kollmeyer
Joseph Shaposhnik's secret sauce is savvy CEOs who can deliver recurring revenue
Veteran manager Joseph Shaposhnik is betting on companies like Loar Group and GE Aerospace.
Veteran money manager Joseph Shaposhnik believes many investors have given up on actively managed funds, a business he sees as "broken" but fixable.
"There are too many actively managed funds out there with managers who spend all of their days trying to make investments and decisions based on the constituents in their index," the founder of Rainwater Equity told MarketWatch in a Monday interview.
His plan to fix that? Shaposhnik launched the Rainwater Equity ETF RW this summer with a cornerstone contribution by value investor and former chairman and CIO of Legg Mason Asset Management, Bill Miller, who he met when starting out at Fidelity.
Shaposhnik spent 13 years at global asset management firm TCW, running several investment strategies and managing the TCW Compounders ETF GRW, ranked the top-performing fund out of 343 peers in its U.S. large-cap core equity category by Nasdaq eVestment.
His big takeaway from his TCW days: predictable-growth businesses deliver better performance.
Joseph Shaposhnik, founder and portfolio manager at Rainwater Equity
He chiefly looks for companies with recurring revenue, secured or under contract through subscriptions or contracts, which "gives management the confidence to invest in growth," leading to better earnings, free cashflow and far better stock performance, he said. His second-biggest holding is Microsoft (MSFT), where he notes its powerful subscriptions via Office 365.
The fund also holds Wall Street darling Broadcom (AVGO), whose shares have delivered a 46% gain this year. The company announced a big new AI customer this summer, and Shaposhnik flagged huge orders for its specialized chips business.
Recurring revenue can also come from companies with oligopoly-type
positions, such as top pick, GE Aerospace (GE), which dominates in the propulsion of commercial aerospace across the world. "That's an end market that has very, very steady growth," he said.
GE Aerospace is also "run by one of the best industrial CEOs of our time," Larry Culp, whose "phenomenal track record" will help him turn the company around after taking over two years ago, he said.
Once the crown jewel of GE, it's now a "pure-play investment on the long-term growth of commercial aerospace and defense," and he sees free cashflow and earnings growing at 20% for an extended period of time.
He also likes Canada-based Constellation Software (CA:CSU), owner and operator of vertical markets software. "What we like about it is that about 75% of total sales are tied to long-term maintenance contracts on critical software the company provides customers."
Shaposhnik also loves Constellation's culture. "We think that the CEO and the management team are some of the best capital allocators of our time, and we think that Constellation will be able to grow in good times and in bad at a higher rate than the market 15% to 20% for a long period of time."
He looks for strong management teams, because he wants to hold those stocks for the long run, and give company leaders time to execute on strategies. Companies also need lots of free cashflow, which managers need to be savvy at reallocating in order to generate even more. He considers dividends "a draw on capital, away from compounding free cash flow inside the company."
"We're looking for what [Warren] Buffett described as fanatical managers. That means an individual who is totally dedicated to the company and has a track record of allocating capital in a way that creates value for shareholders," he said.
His third-biggest position is Loar Holdings (LOAR), an acquirer of aircraft parts for commercial and defense. "We like the fact Loar's growth is tied to aftermarket replacement parts on commercial aerospace and defense programs. That generates very predictable free cashflow and gives them the opportunity to grow at a higher rate."
Loar will also benefit from what he calls "the defense supercycle" from Europe, where he sees NATO defense spending moving from $400 billion to $1.4 trillion a year.
Last question to Shaposhnik - why invest in his fund? "It provides diversification, it has a track record of outperforming, and it can provide investors some level of protection in the event the stock market declines because it's invested in these durable, recurrent revenue businesses," he replied.
That's especially given broader market benchmarks are "more concentrated than they've ever been in just a handful of stocks," he said.
The markets
U.S. stock futures (ES00) (YM00) (NQ00) are mostly steady, with Treasury yields BX:TMUBMUSD10Y BX:TMUBMUSD30Y also holding mostly steady, while gold (GC00) (GCZ25) is headed for another record high.
Key asset performance
Last
5d
1m
YTD
1y
S&P 500
6693.75
1.19%
3.95%
13.81%
17.05%
Nasdaq Composite
22,788.98
1.97%
6.25%
18.01%
26.79%
10-year Treasury
4.136
10.10
-13.20
-44.00
40.30
Gold
3790.9
1.70%
10.10%
43.63%
41.34%
Oil
62.08
-3.83%
-1.94%
-13.62%
-13.22%
Data: MarketWatch. Treasury yields change expressed in basis points
The buzz
Fed Chair Jerome Powell will speak at 12:35 p.m. on the economic outlook. Ahead of that, Fed Vice Chair for Supervision Michelle Bowman will speak, and then Atlanta Fed Pres. Raphael Bostic at 10 a.m.
On the data front, S&P flash U.S. services and manufacturing purchasing managers indexes will be released at 9:45 am.
Kenvue shares (KVUE) are bouncing off a record low after a White House warning for pregnant women not to use its Tylenol painkiller didn't provide fresh evidence for lawsuits against it.
The OECD lifted its U.S. growth forecast. Don't get too excited.
Best of the web
AI-generated "workslop" is destroying productivity.
EU targets Apple, Google and Microsoft over online financial scams.
Death by aid cuts: how a decision in the U.S. led to the loss of a mother in Yemen
The chart
Fundstrat's head of technical strategy, Mark Newton is flagging stock market bifurcation. His chart shows just three out of 11 major sector exchange-traded funds have been positive in the past month, on an equal-weighted basis: technology, communication services and energy. "Meanwhile, eight sectors have fallen more than 1% in the last month, despite the S&P 500 SPX and QQQ QQQ having reached record heights. This kind of divergence has the potential to be troubling if/when technology's torrid runup stalls out," he writes.
Top tickers
These were the top-searched tickers on MarketWatch as of 6 a.m.:
Ticker
Security name
TSLA
Tesla
NVDA
Nvidia
GME
GameStop
OPEN
Opendoor Technologies
PLUG
Plug Power
AAPL
Apple
TSM
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
PLTR
Palantir Technologies
NIO
NIO
ORCL
Oracle
Random reads
Lessons from Britain's greatest extreme cleaner.
One legally blind nun celebrated her 105th birthday - with a round of golf.
In more nun news - three rebel octogenarians have fled their care homes to reclaim their convent.
-Barbara Kollmeyer
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-23-25 0719ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
Markets Brief: AI Investment is Massive in a Cyclical Industry. Will This Time Be Different? Plus: Defensive stocks, Brazilian equities and inflation data.
Dan Kemp Sep 22, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 19, 2025
A 5-Star Stock to Buy With a Near-5% Yield Undervalued by 23%, this cheap dividend stock is a top pick in its sector.
Travis Miller Sep 18, 2025
4 Must-Own Dividend-Growth Stocks These dividend stocks are among the top-10 holdings of two of the best fund managers.
Susan Dziubinski Sep 16, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility