Ben & Jerry's co-founder quits, says independence "gone" under British giant Unilever - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
MoneyWatch
|
Managing Your Money
CBS News Price Tracker
Watch CBS News
MoneyWatch
Ben & Jerry's co-founder quits, says independence "gone" under British giant Unilever
Updated on:
September 17, 2025 / 7:30 AM EDT
/ CBS/AFP
Jerry Greenfield of Ben & Jerry's resigns, cites rift with parent company Unilever
Jerry Greenfield of Ben & Jerry's resigns, cites rift with parent company Unilever
00:25
The co-founder of Ben & Jerry's has resigned from the ice cream brand after saying his company, known for its social activism, has lost "the independence to pursue our values" under the ownership of British giant Unilever. Jerry Greenfield's announcement follows the company's failure in 2022 to block Unilever from selling its ice cream in West Bank settlements, which Ben & Jerry's said would run counter to its values. Greenfield said he could "no longer, in good conscience, and after 47 years, remain an employee" of the Vermont-based company, according to a statement published on X by co-founder Ben Cohen late Tuesday.
Jerry Greenfield, right, and Ben Cohen, co-founders of Ben & Jerry's, partnered with MoveOn to hand out free ice cream at Franklin Square in Philadelphia during their Scoop The Vote tour to get-out-the-vote for Vice President Kamala Harris and Democrats down-ballot on Sept. 16, 2024.
Lisa Lake / Getty Images for MoveOn
The brand was founded by the two school friends in 1978 and acquired by Unilever in 2000. It is now owned by the Magnum Ice Cream Company, a Unilever subsidiary.Greenfield said his company "has been silenced, sidelined for fear of upsetting those in power" at a time when the current U.S. administration is "attacking civil rights, voting rights, the rights of immigrants, women and the LGBTQ community." "It's profoundly disappointing to come to the conclusion that that independence, the very basis of our sale to Unilever, is gone," he added.
Cohen said in his post that Greenfield's "legacy deserves to be true to our values, not silenced by (Magnum)."A Magnum spokesperson said the company remains committed to the Ben & Jerry's mission and legacy. "We disagree with (Greenfield's) perspective and have sought to engage both co-founders in a constructive conversation on how to strengthen Ben & Jerry's powerful values-based position in the world," the spokesperson said. "We remain committed to Ben & Jerry's unique three-part mission – product, economic and social – and remain focused on carrying forward the legacy of peace, love, and ice cream of this iconic, much-loved brand," he added.In May, the 74-year-old Cohen was removed from a U.S. Senate hearing after shouting "Congress pays for bombs to kill children in Gaza" and startling Health and Human Services Secretary
Robert F Kennedy Jr.
A longtime critic of Israeli policy, Cohen last year joined prominent Jewish figures in an open letter opposing the pro-Israel lobby AIPAC. Unilever is in the process of spinning off Magnum, which is expected to begin standalone operations by mid-November.
More from CBS News
TikTok's fate in the U.S. could hinge on who controls its algorithm
Starbucks workers sue over company's new dress code's costs to them
What are the monthly payments on a $750,000 mortgage now that the Fed has cut rates?
Trump's plan to label antifa a "terrorist organization" likely to face legal hurdles
Erika Kirk, Charlie Kirk's widow, named CEO of Turning Point USA
Unilever
Ben & Jerry's
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report.
More from CBS News
Check washing costs Long Island woman $20,000, police say
Map shows fall foliage forecast for New York and Tri-State Area
New York officials among dozens arrested at anti-ICE demonstration
Orioles defeat Yankees as Trevor Rogers lowers ERA to 1.35
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue