Ukraine reveals jammer-resistant Kamikaze strike drones — 31-mile range ordinance promises ’a new level of enemy destruction far behind the front lines’ | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Microcontroller Projects
Hardcore fan celebrates Alien: Earth by building a fully-working M314 Motion Tracker replica
Artificial Intelligence
Russia allegedly field-testing deadly next-gen AI drone powered by Nvidia Jetson Orin
Cyber Security
Ukrainian hackers say they compromised a major Russian drone company
Tech Industry
CobraJet Nvidia AI-powered drone killer takes out 'overwhelming enemy drone incursions' at up to 300mph
Tech Industry
UK’s Royal Navy tests 40-foot submarine drone which can be operated from ‘the other side of the world’
Cyber Security
Ukraine strikes back at Russia with cyberattack on forces in Crimea
Tech Industry
Mosquito-sized drone is designed for Chinese spy missions
3D Printing
Students 3D print drone that can swim underwater and fly through the air
3D Printing
US Soldiers learn to 3D print and fly drones in new Army course
Networking
Ukraine to become first European country with Starlink direct to cell service
Peripherals
This device uses a laser to shoot down 30 mosquitoes per second
Tech Industry
Starlink-powered drone narco-sub intercepted by Colombian Navy
Networking
World's first laser communication link between a plane and satellite ran at 1 Gbps
Artificial Intelligence
LaserWeeder packs two dozen Nvidia GPUs and lasers to zap your weed problem, vaporizes ‘600,000 weeds per hour' with sub-millimeter precision
Cyber Security
Czechia warns that DeepSeek can share all user information with the Chinese government
Tech Industry
Ukraine reveals jammer-resistant Kamikaze strike drones — 31-mile range ordinance promises ’a new level of enemy destruction far behind the front lines’
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
20 September 2025
New Brave1 drones offer an extended range beyond 50km (31 miles).
Comments (3)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Brave1)
Ukraine has finished testing a new kamikaze strike drone design, which it says can overcome the hurdles presented by Russian electronic warfare (EW). The new Brave1 drones offer extended range, beyond 50km (31 miles), according to the Ukrainian Defense Innovations organization. Moreover, the designers assert that the new drones will deliver "a new level of enemy destruction far behind the front lines."
(Image credit: Brave1)A few more details and images are shown in a LinkedIn post from Brave1, linked above.According to the post, the drones you see being held aloft by various Brave1 testers in the field can deliver “accurate strikes at distances of 40, 50, and even more kilometers — leaving the enemy no chance.” The key advancement touted is that the field-tested Brave1 drones are “capable of overcoming electronic warfare.”
You may like
Russia allegedly field-testing deadly next-gen AI drone powered by Nvidia Jetson Orin
Ukrainian hackers say they compromised a major Russian drone company
CobraJet Nvidia AI-powered drone killer takes out 'overwhelming enemy drone incursions' at up to 300mph
After the successful field tests, Brave1 is now going to move to the combat testing phase. It is then hoped to “accelerate the mass deployment of strike drones on the battlefield.” This should be more easily achieved if it is indeed true that the Brave1 kamikaze drones are “affordable to manufacture and ready for scaling.”Details of the key electronic warfare-resistant technology being used by the new Brave1 drones are scarce. Understandably, Brave1 wants to keep details of its key drone innovation(s) under wraps. However, a clue to some of the underlying tech might be found in a previous Brave1-backed Himera Tech project, which saw electronic warfare-resistant personal radio handsets announced in October 2023.Of course, Ukraine also has experience in defending its own resources from drone attacks. Brave1 helped with the development of the compact Piranha AVD 360 to disrupt Russian drones within a 600m radius of armored vehicles equipped with this device.What is Brave1?In April 2023, the Ukrainian government put Brave1 together as a platform to unite and coordinate innovative companies with ideas and developments that can be used in the defense of Ukraine. Inventors, designers, scientists, manufacturers, and key military organizations work towards common goals efficiently this way.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Thus, the Brave1 platform should minimize the waste of precious time and resources that some might spend duplicating prior research and development. It also works in delivering targeted investment and production resources where they are needed most.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See all comments (3)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Russia allegedly field-testing deadly next-gen AI drone powered by Nvidia Jetson Orin
Ukrainian hackers say they compromised a major Russian drone company
CobraJet Nvidia AI-powered drone killer takes out 'overwhelming enemy drone incursions' at up to 300mph
UK’s Royal Navy tests 40-foot submarine drone which can be operated from ‘the other side of the world’
Ukraine strikes back at Russia with cyberattack on forces in Crimea
Mosquito-sized drone is designed for Chinese spy missions
Latest in Tech Industry
OpenAI is reportedly poaching Apple talent to build its first consumer hardware device
Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks
Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
xAI's new gas turbine facility gets halfway to Elon Musk's 1-gigawatt 'AI factory' goal
Latest in News
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
GPU sales skyrocketed 27% last quarter
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
Asus teases new concept that boosts motherboard GPU slot power to 250W
AMD silently launches RX 7700 non-XT with 16 GB VRAM
GeForce RTX 50-series GPUs are finally selling at and below MSRP
3 Comments
Comment from the forums
KennyRedSocks
A new wunderwaffe.
Reply
hotaru251
war: advancing technology to make war even more scary than it already is.
Reply
bolweval
What a wonderful instrument of death! ......:D
Reply
View All 3 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.