How to restart your Android phone without the power button: 2 alternative methods | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
How to restart your Android phone without the power button: 2 alternative methods
There are different ways you can restart your Android phone - without pressing and holding a physical button. Here's how.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 6:55 a.m. PT
Jack Wallen / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysYou should make a habit of restarting your phone.There are several ways to restart an Android device.These methods can help with wear and tear on physical buttons.I regularly restart my Pixel 9 Pro, and there's a good reason for that. Actually, there are several reasons why I regularly restart my phone (weekly -- at least). Here's a short list for you to ponder:Improves performance by clearing temporary caches.Enhances security by disrupting possible cyberattacks and clearing possible malware stored in memory.Resolves issues such as if your phone has slowed down, is getting hot, apps are crashing, and you're having connectivity issues, a restart often will fix those issues.Those three points alone should have you reaching for your Android phone. Also: This hidden Pixel camera setting makes my photos absolutely pop - here's howAs for me, I generally restart my phone every Saturday. I have to do that manually, because Google removed an auto-restart feature from Android some time ago. There are apps available to add this functionality back, but I'd much rather do it myself. Every time I restart my phone, it seems like some kind of magic has happened under the hood; my Pixel 9 Pro is back to being a pro again. You should seriously consider doing this as well. Of course, you probably already know how to restart your phone. Press and hold that power button until the power menu appears, and tap Restart. It's simple.However, what if there's a reason why you can't press and hold that button? I know some people with arthritis in their fingers, and pressing and holding a button can be a challenge. On top of that, the wear and tear on physical buttons is a real thing. Also: Your Android phone just got a major Bluetooth upgrade for free - how it worksFortunately, Android has alternative methods for restarting the OS, options that don't require pressing and holding a physical button. I use one of these methods, and I think you'll find it better than using a button.Let me show you how.How to restart your Android phone from the Notification Shade If you pull down the Notification Shade twice on your Android phone, you'll see a small power icon at the bottom right corner. Tap that button, and the same power menu appears (as if you've gone the physical button route). Also: Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is hidden and off by default - turn it on nowTap Restart and voilà -- your phone will restart.
This is the method I use to restart my phone. Jack Wallen/ZDNETThis is the method I always use for restarting my phone. How to restart your Android phone from the Accessibility Menu This method requires that you enable the Accessibility Menu. Once you've enabled this feature, you'll see an expandable menu button at the bottom left of your display. Tap that button, and the Accessibility Menu appears, where you can then tap the power button to reveal the Power Menu. Whew.Also: My top 6 open-source Android apps from the Google Play Store - and why that's importantTo enable the Accessibility Menu, follow these steps.
1. Open Accessibility in Settings
Pull down the Notification Shade twice and tap the Settings icon (gear) at the bottom right. Once Settings is open, scroll down and tap Accessibility.
Show more
There are several features that you might find of value in this section. Jack Wallen/ZDNET
2. Enable the Accessibility Menu
Within the Accessibility page of Settings, locate Accessibility Menu. Tap that entry and then, in the resulting page, tap the On/Off slider until it's in the On position. This will add the Accessibility Menu shortcut to your Android display.
Show more
In the Settings section you can set the transparency of the Accessibility shortcut. Jack Wallen/ZDNETClose the Settings app, and you'll see the Accessibility Menu shortcut near the bottom right of your display. Tap that button, tap the power options, and then tap Restart.
Here's the power button as opened from the Accessibility Shortcut. Jack Wallen/ZDNETYou now have multiple methods of restarting your Android phone. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
I unlocked hidden menus on my iPhone and Android with 14 secret codes
Changing these 12 settings on my Android phone extended its battery life by hours
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use