Starbucks is closing stores, cutting 900 corporate jobs in a turnaround : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Starbucks is closing stores, cutting 900 corporate jobs in a turnaround The coffee giant plans to cut 900 corporate jobs and shut down about 1% of its stores as the chain's turnaround plan approaches a one-year mark.
Business
Starbucks is closing more stores and laying off 900 workers
September 25, 202511:51 AM ET
Alina Selyukh
A Starbucks coffee shop in New York on Monday, July 28, 2025. Starbucks Corp. is closing stores and laying off 900 corporate employees as part of a turnaround strategy.
Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images/Bloomberg
hide caption
toggle caption
Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images/Bloomberg
Starbucks plans to cut another 900 corporate jobs and close some of its stores in the U.S. and Canada, as the coffee chain approaches the one-year mark of its turnaround plan. The company says the number of stores will decline by 1% and it will end the fiscal year with nearly 18,300 Starbucks locations in the U.S. and Canada. That suggests that roughly 200 stores might close. After that, the chain plans to invest in new store openings and renovate more than 1,000 locations.
Sponsor Message
Business
See you latte: Starbucks plans to cut 30% of its menu
New corporate layoffs are a second wave after Starbucks cut 1,100 jobs in February. CEO Brian Niccol has said the cost cuts were needed to redirect more money toward stores, where the company is adding more baristas, speeding up service and upgrading the ambiance. Niccol arrived at Starbucks a year ago from Chipotle, tasked with shaking up the coffee giant that's been losing customers. The chain has reported declining sales for six straight quarters now, as shoppers are choosing either cheaper options or upgrading to fancier shops. Meanwhile, Starbucks has been stuck in the middle: too fancy to be basic, too basic to be fancy.
Niccol's turnaround plan has ordered up big changes: removing almost a third of the menu options, drinks ready in four minutes or less, no upcharges for nondairy milks, a store redesign to encourage people to linger for longer — along with ceramic mugs and free refills on coffee or tea for those who decide to stay in the cafe.
Business
Starbucks hopes faster drinks, fewer upcharges and nicer mugs bring people back
"Our goal is for every coffeehouse to deliver a warm and welcoming space with a great atmosphere and a seat for every occasion," Niccol wrote in a memo to employees on Thursday. He said a recent review of locations "identified coffeehouses where we're unable to create the physical environment our customers and partners expect, or where we don't see a path to financial performance, and these locations will be closed." So far, Niccol's turnaround plan has yet to make a meaningful impact on the company's financial results. The CEO on Thursday wrote that "early results" showed that upgraded stores saw people visiting more often, while more baristas working at busy times led to "improvements in transactions, sales, and service times."
Starbucks
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor