RFK Jr.’s vaccine panel may delay hep B shot for newborns : Shots - Health News : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
RFK Jr.’s vaccine panel may delay hep B shot for newborns : Shots - Health News RFK Jr.'s hand-picked panel of vaccine advisors is expected to vote to delay the hepatitis B shot for newborns. Doctors warn that could fuel a return of a disease virtually eradicated in U.S. kids.
Shots
Health News From NPR
Your Health Treatments & Tests Health Inc. Policy-ish Public Health
Twitter
Shots - Health News
Kennedy's vaccine panel expected to recommend delaying hepatitis B shot in children
September 16, 20255:00 AM ET
From
By
Jackie Fortiér
The CDC currently recommends that all newborns get their first dose of the hepatitis B vaccine before leaving the hospital.
Pediatricians and infectious disease specialists are afraid that Health Secretary RFK Jr.'s appointees to a vaccine advisory panel will vote to change that, and recommend that the first shot is delayed until age 4.
Abraham Gonzalez Fernandez/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Abraham Gonzalez Fernandez/Getty Images
A key federal vaccine advisory panel whose members were recently replaced by Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is expected to vote to recommend delaying, until age 4, the hepatitis B vaccine that's currently given to newborns, according to two former senior officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
This story was produced in partnership with KFF Health News.
"There is going to likely be a discussion about hepatitis B vaccine, very specifically trying to dislodge the birth dose of hepatitis B vaccine and to push it later in life," said Demetre Daskalakis, the former director for the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. "Apparently this is a priority of the Secretary's." The vote is expected to take place Thursday during the next meeting of the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, or ACIP. The meeting is scheduled for September 18-19 at a CDC office in Atlanta, Georgia.
Sponsor Message
For more than 30 years, the CDC has advised that infants get the first of three shots of the hepatitis B vaccine at birth. In that time, the potentially fatal disease has been virtually eradicated among American children. Between 1990 and 2022, case rates plummeted 99 percent among people age 19 and younger. Pediatricians warn that waiting until age 4 to begin vaccination opens the door to more children contracting the virus. "Age four makes zero sense," said pediatrician Eric Ball, who practices in Orange County, California. "We recommend a universal approach to prevent those cases where a test might be incorrect or a mother might have unknowingly contracted hepatitis. It's really the best way to keep our entire population healthy." In addition to the hepatitis B vaccine, the panel will also discuss and vote on recommendations for the combined measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccine, and COVID vaccines. Pediatricians worry changes to the schedules of these vaccines will limit access for many families, because ACIP's recommendations generally determine whether insurance plans and federal programs pay for the vaccines. Typically, ACIP would undertake an analysis of the data before recommending a change to vaccine guidelines. As of the end of August, this process had not begun for the hepatitis B vaccines, Daskalakis and another former official said.
Sponsor Message
"This is an atypical situation. There's been no work group to discuss it," Daskalakis said. The second former official spoke to NPR and KFF Health News on condition of anonymity. In an email, a Health and Human Services spokesman, Andrew Nixon, wrote, "ACIP exists to ensure that vaccine policy is guided by the best available evidence and open scientific deliberation. Any updates to recommendations will be made transparently with gold standard science." The draft agenda for the upcoming ACIP meeting was released to the public Sunday, only a few days before the meetings are scheduled to begin. At the last ACIP meeting in June, chairman Martin Kulldorff, one of the new members handpicked by Kennedy, questioned the need to vaccinate every newborn, citing only two of the many ways the virus can spread.
Dr. Martin Kulldorff speaks during a June 25 meeting of the Advisory Committee in Immunization Practices at the CDC in Atlanta.
Mike Stewart/AP Photo
hide caption
toggle caption
Mike Stewart/AP Photo
Kulldorff is a former Harvard Medical School professor who became known for opposing some public health measures during the COVID-19 pandemic. "Unless the mother is hepatitis B positive, an argument could be made to delay the vaccine for this infection, which is primarily spread by sexual activity and intravenous drug use," Kulldorff said. The infection requires direct exposure to infected bodily fluids like blood and semen. The disease has no cure and can lead to serious conditions like cirrhosis and liver cancer later in life. The CDC advisory panel may maintain the recommendation to inoculate newborns whose mothers are considered at high risk of the disease, the former officials said. Protection From Birth In 1991, federal health officials determined it was advisable for newborns to receive their first dose of the hepatitis B vaccine within 24 hours of birth, which blocks the virus from taking hold if transmitted during delivery.
While parents may opt out of the shots, many daycare centers and school districts require proof of hepatitis B vaccination for enrollment.
Sponsor Message
The prospect of altering the recommendation has left some people living with the virus deeply unsettled. "I am goddamn frustrated," said Wendy Lo, 52, who lives in the San Francisco Bay area. Lo says she has probably had hepatitis B since birth. Years of navigating the psychological, monetary, medical and social aspects of chronic hepatitis B has impacted almost every aspect of her life. "I would not want anyone to have to experience that if it can be prevented," she said.
Lo only learned she had the disease due to a routine screening in order to study abroad in college as a young adult.
Lo credits the vaccines with protecting all the members of her close family from infection. "I shared with my partner, 'if you get vaccinated, we can be together,'" she said. He got the vaccine, which protects him from infection, "so I'm grateful for that," she said. The CDC estimates half of people with hepatitis B do not know they are infected. It can range from an acute, mild infection to a chronic infection, often with few or no symptoms.
Most people with chronic hepatitis B were born outside of the U.S. Asians and Pacific Islanders, followed by Black people, have the highest rates of newly reported chronic infections. When her children were born, Lo was adamant that they receive the newborn dose, a decision she says prevented them from contracting the virus. The earlier an infection occurs, the worse the lifetime consequences, according to the CDC. When contracted in infancy or early childhood, hepatitis B is far more likely to become a chronic infection, silently damaging the liver over decades. Those who become chronic carriers can also unknowingly spread the virus to others and face an increased risk of long-term complications including cirrhosis and liver cancer, which may not become evident until much later in life.
Sponsor Message
Treatments like the antivirals Lo now takes weren't available until the 1990s. Decades of the virus replicating unchecked damaged her liver. Every six months she gets scared of what her blood tests may reveal. "Now I'm in my 50s, one of my big concerns is liver cancer. The vaccine is safe and effective, it's life-saving, and it protects you against cancer. How many vaccines do that?" Lo said. Thirty Years of Universal Vaccination After a vaccine was approved in the 1980s, public health officials initially focused vaccination efforts on so-called "high-risk" adults. "I, and every other doctor, had been trained in medical school to think of hepatitis B as an infection you acquired as an adult. It was the pimps, the prostitutes, the prisoners, and the healthcare practitioners who got hepatitis B infection. But we've learned so much more," said William Schaffner, professor of infectious diseases at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine and a former voting member of ACIP. As hepatitis B rates remained stubbornly high in the 1980s, scientists realized an entire vulnerable group was missing from the vaccination regime – newborns. The virus is often spread from an infected mother to baby in late pregnancy or during birth. "We may soon hear 'let's just do a blood test on all pregnant women.' We tried that. That doesn't work perfectly either," Shaffner said. Some doctors didn't test, he said, and some pregnant women falsely tested negative, while others acquired hepatitis B later in pregnancy, after they had already been tested. In 1991, Schaffner was a liaison member to the ACIP group that voted to recommend universal vaccination for hepatitis B before an infant leaves the hospital. "We want no babies infected. Therefore, we'll just vaccinate every mom and every baby at birth. Problem solved. It has been brilliantly successful in virtually eliminating hepatitis B in children," he said.
Sponsor Message
In 1990, there were 3.03 cases of hepatitis B per 100,000 in those 19 years old and under in the U.S., according to the CDC. Since the federal recommendation to vaccinate all infants, cases have dramatically decreased. CDC data shows that in 2022, the rate of cases among those ages 19 was less than 0.1 per 100,000. While hepatitis B is often associated with high-risk behaviors such as injected drug use or multiple sexual partners, health experts caution that it is possible for the virus to be transmitted in ordinary situations, especially among young children. The virus can survive for up to seven days outside the body. During that time, even microscopic traces of infected blood on a school desk or playground equipment can pose a risk.
If the virus comes into contact with an open wound or the mucous membranes of the eyes, an infection can occur. This means that unvaccinated children who are not considered "high risk" can still be exposed in everyday environments. Future Access Uncertain If the CDC significantly alters its recommendation, health insurers would no longer be required to cover the cost of the shot if given before the new recommended age. That could leave parents to pay out of pocket for a vaccine that has long been provided at no charge.
Children who get immunizations through the federal Vaccines for Children program would lose free access to the shot as soon as any new ACIP recommendations get approved by the acting CDC director. The two former CDC officials said that plans were underway to push back the official recommendation for the vaccine as of August, when they both left the agency, but may have changed. Schaffner is still a liaison member of ACIP, and hopes to express his support for universal newborn vaccination at the next meeting. "The liaisons have now been excluded from the vaccine work groups. They are still permitted to attend the full meetings," he said.
Sponsor Message
He intends to speak up if he can, because he's worried about the next generation of babies and the doctors who care for them. "We'll see cases of hepatitis B once again occur. We'll see transmission into the next generation," he said. "And the next generation of people who wear white coats will have to deal with hepatitis B, when we could have cut it off at the pass." This story was produced in partnership with KFF Health News, a national newsroom that produces in-depth journalism about health issues and is one of the core operating programs of KFF. NPR Health Correspondent Will Stone contributed to this story.
RFK Jr.
anti-vaccine
hepatitis B
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor