Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Markets
Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation
Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation
We wrap up our coverage of the markets and the week.
Tom Lauricella
Sep 20, 2025
Share
Want to stay informed with market insights and investing ideas from Morningstar? Sign up for my weekly Smart Investor newsletter here.This week’s highlights:Weekly Markets Update: Stocks Gain, Led by Tech and Large Caps The Stocks Leading the Small Cap Rally
The Fed’s ‘Difficult Situation’: Reading Between the Lines of the September Dot Plot How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy
Vanguard’s Davis: Why the Next Winners in the AI Boom May Not Be AI Stocks The Best Tech Stocks to BuyThe Federal Reserve delivered its first interest rate cut of the year and signaled that there are more to come. The Fed also came through on expectations that the rate decision would be the least interesting part of the meeting. As Sarah Hansen writes, reading between the lines of Fed officials’ forecasts for inflation, growth, and rates, there’s a lot of uncertainty. As Chair Jerome Powell said, the Fed is facing a “difficult situation,” with an economy buffeted by tariffs and immigration policy changes. And though he refused to go there, the Fed is also facing a serious attack on its independence.On that subject, Ivanna Hampton spoke with Morningstar’s senior US economist Preston Caldwell about the latest Fed meeting, as well as his forecast for how far the Fed will eventually cut rates. It was another good week for stocks, with the Fed’s tilt toward lower interest rates giving a boost to tech names. Large-cap stocks were the bigger gainers past week, but for the last three months, small-company stocks have been in the lead. Bella Albrecht looks under the hood of this rally to see which stocks have been driving it. Yes, AI is part of it, but you might be surprised by some of the other winners.Speaking of AI, Dan Lefkovitz sat down with Vanguard chief economist Joe Davis and talked about what’s next in the big AI rally. Find out why he thinks value stocks could be the surprise winners.Lastly, despite tech stocks’ move higher this year, a surprising number of names in the sector remain undervalued. We’ve updated our screen of the best tech stocks to buy now, and offer 12 names to add to a watchlist. As always, be sure to visit our Markets page for our latest coverage and live stock market updates, along with our full weekly calendar of key upcoming data and events.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Tom Lauricella Editorial Director, Markets
More from Author
Tom Lauricella is chief markets editor for Morningstar. Email Tom at tom.lauricella@morningstar.com.
Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation
Tom Lauricella Sep 20, 2025
Smart Investor: Recession Risks Rising, Desert Island Small Cap Picks, and IPOs Pop
Tom Lauricella Sep 13, 2025
Smart Investor: Undervalued Stocks Raising Dividends, Yardeni on a S&P 500 Melt-Up and Fed Rate Cut Odds Jump
Tom Lauricella Sep 6, 2025
Smart Investor: Best Industrial Stocks, Why Trump vs. the Fed is Worrying Investors, and a Sweet Spot for Bond Yields
Tom Lauricella Aug 30, 2025
Smart Investor: Tech Stocks to Buy Now, Powell’s Signal on Rates, and Nvidia on Deck
Tom Lauricella Aug 23, 2025
Smart Investor: Undervalued Stocks That Crushed Earnings, Berkshire’s UnitedHealth Buy, and a New Record for Stocks
Tom Lauricella Aug 16, 2025
Smart Investor: 3 Dividend Stocks To Watch, What’s Next for Stocks, and CPI on Deck
Tom Lauricella Aug 9, 2025
What’s Next for Pharma Stocks After Trump’s Drug Price Ultimatum?
Gabe Alpert Aug 4, 2025
Smart Investor: 2025’s Surprising Leading Stocks, Figma’s Blowout IPO and Rate Cuts on the Table
Tom Lauricella Aug 2, 2025
June PCE Report: PCE Inflation Index Up 2.6%, Stronger Than Expected
Tom Lauricella Jul 31, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility