cascade Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
cascade
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
15 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article Composition in CSS
cascade CSS specificity
Composition in CSS
CSS is a composable language by nature. This composition nature is already built into the cascade. We simply don't talk about composition as a Big Thing because it's the nature of the language.
Zell Liew
on
Sep 8, 2025
Direct link to the article Maybe don’t use custom properties in shorthand properties
cascade custom properties
Maybe don’t use custom properties in shorthand properties
This easily qualifies as a "gotcha" in CSS and is a good reminder that the cascade doesn't know everything all at the same time. If a custom property is invalid, the cascade won't ignore it, and it gets evaluated, which invalidates the declaration.
Geoff Graham
on
Mar 6, 2025
Direct link to the article @layer
cascade
@layer
The CSS @layer at-rule enables CSS authors to work within CSS Cascade Layers as a way of controlling how the CSS Cascade evaluates the order of styles. We define a layer and wrap it around the rulesets we want to …
Ryan Trimble
on
Oct 22, 2024
Direct link to the article HTML Web Components Make Progressive Enhancement and CSS Encapsulation Easier!
cascade progressive enhancement web components
HTML Web Components Make Progressive Enhancement and CSS Encapsulation Easier!
I have to thank Jeremy Keith and his wonderfully insightful article from late last year that introduced me to the concept of HTML Web Components. This was the “a-ha!” moment for me:
When you wrap some existing markup in a …
Kev Bonett
on
Aug 6, 2024
Direct link to the article Taming the Cascade With BEM and Modern CSS Selectors
:has :is :where bem cascade specificity
Taming the Cascade With BEM and Modern CSS Selectors
BEM. Like seemingly all techniques in the world of front-end development, writing CSS in a BEM format can be polarizing. But it is – at least in my Twitter bubble – one of the better-liked CSS methodologies.
Personally, I think …
Liam Johnston
on
Jan 17, 2023
Direct link to the article Don’t Fight the Cascade, Control It!
:is :where cascade cascade layers custom properties data attributes specificity
Don’t Fight the Cascade, Control It!
If you’re disciplined and make use of the inheritance that the CSS cascade provides, you’ll end up writing less CSS. But because our styles often comes from all kinds of sources — and can be a pain to structure and …
Mads Stoumann
on
Jan 11, 2022
Direct link to the article Cascade Layers
@layer cascade specificity
Cascade Layers
There is a new thing coming in CSS: @layer. …
Chris Coyier
on
Jan 6, 2022
Direct link to the article Should DevTools teach the CSS cascade?
cascade DevTools specificity
Should DevTools teach the CSS cascade?
Stefan Judis, two days before I mouthed off about using (X, X, X, X) for talking about specificity, has a great blog post not only using that format, but advocating that browser DevTools should show us that value by …
Chris Coyier
on
May 21, 2021
Direct link to the article Computed Values: More Than Meets the Eye
cascade computed DevTools inheritance values
Computed Values: More Than Meets the Eye
Browser DevTools are indispensable for us front end developers. In this article, we’ll take a look at the Computed tab, a small corner of the DevTools panel that shows us big things, like how relative CSS values are resolved. We’ll …
Jemimah Omodior
on
Aug 5, 2020
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top