Best Water Guns for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Yard & Outdoors
Best Water Guns for 2025
Splash into fun with our picks of the best water blasters, whether you're looking for pool toys or backyard battle gear.
Our Experts
Written by
Steve Conaway
Article updated on January 20, 2025 at 2:08 AM PST
Steve Conaway Former Labs Manager / Senior Technical Project Manager Steve was the Labs manager for CNET's Home Division based in Louisville, Kentucky. Expertise Portable power stations, tools, coolers, lawn mowers, DIY.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
It may not be summer yet, but that doesn't mean you can't have pool fun and play water games. Whether you're planning activities with your children or looking for some lighthearted fun with your adult friends, sometimes a good water battle is exactly what you need. Our Picks
Best water gun for pools X-Shot Water Warfare Fast-Fill Water Blaster
Jump to details
$20 at Walmart
Jump to details
Longest shot, and best for outside the pool Spyra Two
Jump to details
$149 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best water gun stream Kulariworld 1,500CC High Power Water Blaster (Update: Out of Stock)
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
Largest water capacity Nerf Super Soaker Hydra Water Blaster (Update: Out of Stock)
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
Best value water gun, and best soak factor Temi Super Blaster Water Guns (2-pack) (Update: Out of Stock)
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
YARD AND OUTDOORS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Beatbot AquaSense 2 Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $1,099 (save $500)
Traeger Grills Pro 22 Electric Wood Pellet Grill and Smoker:  $389 (save $161)
Ego Power Plus LM2135SP Self-Propelled Cordless Electric Lawn Mower:  $599 (save $151)
Aiper Scuba S1 Cordless Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $500 (save $200)
Karcher K1700 2125-PSI 1.46-GPM Pressure Washer:  $173 (save $58) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Water Guns for 2025
Best water gun for pools
Longest shot, and best for outside the pool
Best water gun stream
Largest water capacity
Best value water gun, and best soak factor
Other water guns we tested
How we test water guns
Water gun FAQs
But if you're going to jump into a water fight, you'll want the right equipment. Going into aquatic combat means having the proper artillery, and that's where we come in. We've done the testing to find the right water pistols for you.Read more: Hottest Toys of 2025Before you buy your brand-new water pistol, you should know a few things. Different water guns excel in different environments. Some of our top water gun picks are better suited for pools, whereas others are better for the backyard or the beach. So before you buy one, make sure it matches your usage. Secondly, certain water guns are specifically not meant for particular uses. A pool-specific water gun might disappoint if you're planning to use it as an all-purpose blaster, so don't be upset if you spend a lot of money on it to find out later that it isn't suitable for general use.If you're unsure of where to go from here, don't fret. We'll walk you through the best and worst water guns for your needs so you're pumped with information (and, eventually, the correct water ratio) to make the right choice.
Steve Conaway/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Steve Conaway/CNET
Best water gun for pools
X-Shot Water Warfare Fast-Fill Water Blaster
This category nearly features two winners, but I dropped the Temi water gun because although it's great for pools, it pretty much requires a pool to be used. The X-Shot gun, like most water guns, can be filled quickly then the battle can move wherever. Try that with the Temi and you'll be reduced to a single shot capacity.You'll get one of the best non-Super Soaker water capacities and even with constant firing, you'll be drenching your opponents for about 45 seconds. The downside is that each blast doesn't carry that much water, and it's a fairly short trip at that.This gun does boast a 1-second refill time, so you're likely to outlast your opponents with how long you can stay in the fight. That is what makes the X-shot a great option specifically for pool use (or any other body of water, for that matter).  ... Show more
Get it now
$20 at Walmart
Steve Conaway/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Steve Conaway/CNET
Longest shot, and best for outside the pool
Spyra Two
Yes, it's a water gun. Yes, it costs $149. It's tough to fully condone spending the best part of $200 on a water gun, but it is cool, so I can't stay mad for long.First, understand that this battery-powered water gun has two different shooting modes. There is the normal single shot (you get 22 of these on a full tank) and there is the PowerShot. By holding down the trigger, the gun charges and issues forth a larger, more powerful blast. In our tests, we show that the PowerShot mode takes the water about 11% farther, about 34 feet, 7 inches, versus the single shot at 30 feet, 10 inches. Only the Temi water gun was able to beat the single-shot distance, but Spyra came away the distance victor with its PowerShot mode.The Spyra Two is at a bit of a disadvantage if you're in a pool or other large body of water. Because of the battery power and other internal electronics, the Spyra Two is specifically nonsubmersible; you only dip a portion of the nozzle underwater to load it. If you've ever been in a pool-based water gunfight, you know you're pretty much guaranteed to end up underwater at some point. Not a happy ending for a nearly $200 water gun.If you have some strategically placed water-loading buckets, the Spyra Two would be an amazing edge to a yard-based fight. You're also gifted with a Halo-esque LED tactical display that keeps you apprised of your ammo situation, so you can plan your entanglements around that. Add in the benefit of the PowerShot aspect and the Spyra Two, available in either red or blue, is a shoo-in for best tactical yard-based water gun.  ... Show more
Get it now
$149 at Amazon
Steve Conaway/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Steve Conaway/CNET
Best water gun stream
Kulariworld 1,500CC High Power Water Blaster (Update: Out of Stock)
The Kulariworld blaster honestly didn't fare well in our tests. For starters, its stated capacity is 1,500mL. I found that the actual capacity is about 30% less; around 1,000mL. It also came in last place in our distance tests, barely passing 21 feet. There is one aspect of this blaster that I do quite enjoy.The nozzle is a rotating disc that offers you four different options for spray configuration. There's a single-hole nozzle option that offers a standard type water gun spray. You also have both two- and three-hole options that split the spray up, and there's also a flat slot spray option for maximum soak. Although this blaster wasn't my favorite, I really like this feature, and I'd love to see this type of feature used more often in some of the bigger players.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Amazon
Steve Conaway/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Steve Conaway/CNET
Largest water capacity
Nerf Super Soaker Hydra Water Blaster (Update: Out of Stock)
The Super Soaker brand has long been synonymous with summer, water guns and getting super-ly soaked. One important factor in staying in the fight longer is how much water you can carry without having to refill. The Hydra tops our list at 1.9 liters (just over half a gallon) water capacity, three times the capacity of the shooter in second place.If you're determined, you can empty this capacity in under 20 seconds, resulting in the second highest soak factor (CNET's own water gun metric for comparison -- essentially milliliters per second of water expulsion) of 107.11mL/s. This is a larger product and fully loaded weighs in at about 6.5 pounds. Fun for most people but might be a bit much to handle for little water warriors.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Amazon
Steve Conaway/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Steve Conaway/CNET
Best value water gun, and best soak factor
Temi Super Blaster Water Guns (2-pack) (Update: Out of Stock)
First things first, I bought these by accident. I mean, I meant to buy them, but I misunderstood what they were, and I'm glad I did. The packaging and the "3 years and up" notations for the very simple plastic guns indicate these are really geared toward a younger audience. They totally disrupted our testing expectations.You can read a bit more about our "soak factor" metric in the how we test section below, but it's basically an indication of how quickly you can absolutely drench someone or something. We take the amount of water that a product can hold and divide that by the amount of time it takes to deplete that water capacity. Our soak factor is measured in milliliters per second. If you're looking to drench someone quickly, Temi is where it's at. Although Temi boasts the smallest water capacity of all units tested, you can dump that capacity in under 2 seconds, resulting in a soak factor just shy of 300. The second-place unit, a Super Soaker model, came in with a soak factor of 107.You'll need to park yourself in or near water to get much use out of these, but that makes them great for pools or a trip to the lake. If you're building your water gun battle arsenal, think of this as the closer-range maximum carnage placeholder.Plus, as a runner up to almost every category that it didn't outright win, the Temi two-pack performed impressively for its price. For $33 you get not one, but two impressively performing pieces of plastic.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Amazon
Other water guns we tested
Nerf Super Soaker XP50-AP: Old-school design stands the test of time. It didn't fare particularly well in our testing, having the lowest soak factor overall, but the pressurized shooting design is fun, but may keep you out of a quicker-paced skirmish with plunger or automatic options available.Nerf Super Soaker Soakzooka (Update: Currently unavailable): This was actually a great product, just not a category winner. Third highest soak factor, and was the only gun to actually shoot farther than its stated claims at 30 feet versus 25.Team Magnus Incog Water Guns 1,200cc: This gun had one of my favorite looks. It holds a lot of water because it's basically all capacity and no fluff. It doesn't shoot very far in comparison to our other tested units, but it'll keep you in the game for a while, taking about 1 minute and 15 seconds to empty, even while constantly shooting.Spyra LX: With the release of the Spyra Two this year, we also wanted to compare it to the previous model. In some ways this version can be more useful since it can be fully submerged without all those internal electronics, but as far as performance goes, the new generation wins (other than the LX being able to dump its full load about 6 seconds faster, for a higher soak factor). If you like the look but don't want to drop $149 on the Spyra Two, The LX is more manageable at $59. How we test water guns
The nature of water itself makes some aspects of testing water guns a bit difficult, but I feel good about the process overall. To start, we need to know how much water these things will hold. I do this by weight. Since 1 milliliter of water weighs 1 gram, it's easy to measure capacity with a scale. After subtracting the empty blaster weights, you can see in the table below exactly how the capacities shake out. The Nerf Super Soaker Hydra has the overall largest capacity followed by its Super Soaker sibling. The least capacity was definitely the Temi blaster since it only stores the water for a single burst at a time.
Enlarge Image
Ry Crist/CNETOnce the capacities are locked down, I then go through the process of shooting each gun as quickly as possible to find the shortest amount of time possible to empty that capacity. I have help from someone with a timer and sometimes have to do multiple runs. Sitting around and shooting water guns for a couple of hours nonstop is way more of a workout than I expected. You can see here that typically if it takes a long time (over 30 seconds) to empty a water gun, its overall soak factor (capacity divided by empty time) is pretty low. Although the quickest dump time doesn't always mean the highest soak factor, that is exactly how it works out with the Temi. With a moderate one-shot capacity at just over 500mL, the 1.8 seconds it takes to empty gives it a massive soak factor of almost 300. The Super Soaker siblings come in second and third with similar empty times, but the Hydra's larger capacity gives it a better soak factor. The old-school Nerf XP50-AP and Team Magnus guns have median capacities and low soak factors, but keep you in the fight for much longer than their counterparts.
Enlarge Image
Ry Crist/CNETThe only other measured test we run is for distance. This one is fairly simple in design, but has a touch of abstractness to it. Holding the blaster at the same starting point, height and angle, I let out several blasts, usually five, until I am sure that I can't get the water any farther on an outdoor concrete surface, which discolors well with water. I then measure from the starting point to the furthest edge of the water markings -- discounting any stray single drops.  Water gun FAQs
What is a water bullet gun?
Water gel/bullet guns, aka soft gel guns, shoot small biodegradable polymer water beads. The beads start out small and dry but before use, you soak them in water so they expand in size to be loaded into the blasters. The mostly water "gellets" as they are called, dissolve on impact, leaving only water as residue.
Show more
How much does the most powerful water gun cost?
Currently, the Spyra Two is the most expensive water gun on the retail market at $149 (plus shipping). Overall, sub-$20 offerings are the cheapest water guns, $20s in the medium range, and the more expensive water guns start in the $30s.
Show more
Which water gun has the longest range?
Most water guns boast ranges of 30-50 feet, but in reality, rarely do they shoot farther than about 30 feet.The Nerf Super Soaker Soakzooka measures about 30 feet, the Temi Super Water-Blaster Squirt Water-Gun comes in at 32 feet and the Spyra Two, in PowerShot mode, measures about 34 feet.
Show more
About the Author
Steve Conaway Former Labs Manager / Senior Technical Project Manager Steve Conaway Former Labs Manager / Senior Technical Project Manager
Steve was the Labs manager for CNET's Home Division based in Louisville, Kentucky.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.