Nasdaq Verafin 2024 Global Financial Crime Report | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Close modal
Pardon our appearance
We are actively working to enhance your experience by translating more content. However, please be aware that the page you are about to visit has not yet been translated.
We appreciate your undertanding and patience as we continue to imporove our services.
Continue
Nasdaq Verafin 2024 Global Financial Crime Report
More
Download Full Report
Nasdaq examines the state of financial crime, its deep human impact, and how it threatens the integrity of global financial system.
This report brings together expert research and data, industry perspectives, and the voices of survivors, providing a unique view into the scope and impact of financial crime – and the scale of coordination needed to address it.
"Nasdaq has made the fight against financial crime central to our business... Now, we look forward to facilitating a more global conversation about how we can collectively defend our financial system against the financial criminals seeking to exploit it."
Adena Friedman, Chair & CEO, Nasdaq
The Global Scale of Financial Crime
In 2023, an estimated $3.1T in illicit funds flowed through the global financial system. Money laundering accounted for trillions of dollars funding a range of destructive crimes, including an estimated $346.7B in human trafficking and $782.9B in drug trafficking activity, as well as $11.5B in terrorist financing.
In 2023, fraud scams and bank fraud schemes totaled $485.6B in projected losses globally.
Economic Impact of Financial Crime
Financial crimes such as fraud act as a meaningful depressant on productivity and economic growth.
The Impacts of Financial Crime on the U.S. Economy
Download Our Whitepaper
Top Threats
Our research shows anti-financial crime professionals prioritized the threat of fraud on real-time/faster payments systems and complex typologies, such as money mule activity, drug trafficking, terrorist financing, and human trafficking as top concerns.
Current Challenges
The pace of innovation driving new threats and the growing complexity of financial crime and global regulatory frameworks are creating an increasingly challenging environment for financial institutions.
Opportunities and Potential Solutions
Innovating with Technology
In the face of these challenges, most respondents trust in technology, such as new solutions, artificial intelligence, data and analytics to improve their financial crime prevention efforts.
of respondents expect their organization to increase spending on AI or machine learning in the next 1-2 years.
Improved Regulation
Respondents felt that improved regulation would benefit their organizations in prioritizing typology-specific priorities, encouraging information sharing, and supporting innovation.
Industry Collaboration
Respondents underscored the importance of public-private partnerships as well as private-private information sharing between banks to keep ahead of financial crime threats.
Nasdaq 2024 Global Financial Crime Report
Nasdaq 2024 Global Financial Crime Report
Insights at the Intersection of Financial Crime Data & Real Survivor Stories
Verafin, Anti-Financial Crime Technology
Verafin, a Nasdaq company, has been a partner to the financial industry for decades and provides industry-leading cloud-based solutions to support financial institutions as they prevent fraud and uncover money laundering.
Explore
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
My Quotes
My Quotes
My European Quotes
Watchlist
Portfolio
Add/Edit Symbols
View as Table
Add symbols now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Stocks, Funds, ETFs and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Instruments
View as Table
Add instruments now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Shares, Indexes, ETP and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Symbols
Edit Watchlist
Your Watchlist is empty.
Add/Edit Symbols
Create your Watchlist to save your favorite quotes on Nasdaq.com. Log in or create a free account to get started.
/
Outsmart the market with Smart Portfolio analytical tools powered by TipRanks. Go to Smart Portfolio
Back
Add a symbol to your watchlist
Most Active
Data is currently not available
Edit My Quotes
Add up to 25 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to My Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Edit My European Quotes
Add up to 25 instruments
To add instruments:
Type a instrument or company name. When the instrument you want to add appears, add it to My European Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple instruments separated by spaces.
These instruments will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Your symbols have been updated
You'll now be able to see real-time price and activity for your symbols on the My Quotes of Nasdaq.com.
Continue
Data is currently not available
Edit Watchlist
Add up to 20 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to Watchlist by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Opt in to Smart Portfolio
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties, please try again.
Smart Portfolio is supported by our partner TipRanks. By connecting my portfolio to TipRanks Smart Portfolio I agree to their Terms of Use.
Submit
Cancel
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies