Jaguar Land Rover extends shutdown after cyberattack by another week
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityJaguar Land Rover extends shutdown after cyberattack by another week
Jaguar Land Rover extends shutdown after cyberattack by another week
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 16, 2025
09:08 AM
0
Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) announced today that it will extend the production shutdown for another week, following a devastating cyberattack that impacted its systems at the end of August.
JRL is a standalone entity under Tata Motors India, following its acquisition from Ford in 2008. JLR employs approximately 39,000 people, makes more than 400,000 vehicles each year, and has reported an annual revenue of over $38 billion (£29 billion).
The British automaker has been working to resume operations since it disclosed the attack on September 2, stating that its production had been significantly disrupted. Last week, JLR also confirmed that the attackers stole "some data" during the breach and instructed staff not to report to work.
Earlier today, the automotive giant announced that it's still working to restart its operations and that production will not resume until next week.
"Today we have informed colleagues, suppliers and partners that we have extended the current pause in our production until Wednesday 24th September 2025," JLR said.
"We have taken this decision as our forensic investigation of the cyber incident continues, and as we consider the different stages of the controlled restart of our global operations, which will take time."
JLR has yet to reply to a request for comment from BleepingComputer regarding the incident and its potential impact on customers.
While the automaker confirmed the threat actors stole information from its network, it has yet to attribute the breach to a specific cybercrime group, and no known ransomware operation has taken responsibility for the attack.
However, a group of cybercriminals identifying as "Scattered Lapsus$ Hunters" has taken responsibility for the cyberattack, posting screenshots of an internal JLR SAP system on a Telegram channel and stating that they've also deployed ransomware on the company's compromised systems.
This cybercrime group claims to consist of cybercriminals associated with the Scattered Spider, Lapsus$, and ShinyHunters extortion groups. Scattered Lapsus$ Hunters also claimed responsibility for recent Salesforce data theft attacks.
In these attacks, they used social engineering and compromised Salesloft Drift OAuth tokens to steal data from numerous high-profile companies, including Google, Cloudflare, Palo Alto Networks, Tenable, Proofpoint, and many others.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Jaguar Land Rover confirms data theft after recent cyberattackJaguar Land Rover says cyberattack ‘severely disrupted’ productionCan I have a new password, please? The $400M question.Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attackTeen suspected of Vegas casino cyberattacks released to parents
Breach
Cyberattack
Jaguar
Jaguar Land Rover
JLR
Land Rover
Scattered Spider
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT