I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgrade | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgrade
Apple's iPhone 17 lineup introduces major design shifts - including the debut of the Air model. Here's what to know before choosing your next upgrade.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 3:57 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple's iPhone 17 lineup has finally arrived, bringing four new devices to the table. As expected, the series consists of upgrades to past models such as the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max. But this generation is shaking things up by introducing the iPhone Air -- a new addition that Apple says is "the thinnest iPhone ever made." And for the first time in several generations, there will not be a "Plus" model.Also: I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this timeBeyond the iPhone Air, the series also brings in sweeping upgrades across the board. The iPhone 17 series will have higher-quality displays, greater overall performance, and refined camera systems for better photography and video capture. Each of the four smartphones shares many of these improvements; however, each one offers its own distinctive features that allow it to stand out from the others.Interested buyers have plenty of options. This raises the question: which iPhone 17 model is right for you? The answer isn't straightforward since each device offers something unique. So to cut through all the noise, I've broken down the major features of every iPhone 17 option, highlighting the advantages they offer and explaining why you might want to pick one over the others.FeaturesiPhone 17iPhone 17 AiriPhone 17 ProiPhone 17 Pro MaxPrices$799$999$1,099$1,199Display6.3-inch Super Retina XDR with ProMotion6.5-inch Super Retina XDR with ProMotion6.3-inch Super Retina XDR with ProMotion
6.9-inch Super Retina XDR with ProMotion
Battery30 hours of video playback27 hours of video playback  39 hours of video playback  39 hours of video playback  FinishesLavender, Sage, Mist Blue, White, BlackSky Blue, Black, White, Light GoldCosmic Orange, Deep Blue, SilverCosmic Orange, Deep Blue, SilverProcessorA19A19 ProA19 ProA19 ProFrameAluminum frameTitanium frameAluminum unibodyAluminum unibodyStorage256GB, 512GB256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBCamera18MP Center Stage selfie / 48MP Fusion Main, 48 Fusion Ultra Wide18MP Center Stage selfie / 48MP Fusion Main18MP Center Stage / 48MP Fusion Main, 48MP Fusion Ultra Wide, 48MP Fusion Telephoto18MP Center Stage / 48MP Fusion Main, 48MP Fusion Ultra Wide, 48MP Fusion Telephoto  You should buy the iPhone 17 if…
Nina Raemont/ZDNET1. You want a ProMotion display without paying Pro model prices.For the first time, Apple is bringing its ProMotion display technology to a base iPhone. This will allow the iPhone 17 to house a notably vibrant screen with an adaptive refresh rate of up to 120Hz. A feature like this enables "supersmooth scrolling, immersive gaming, improved efficiency." Its glass is protected by Ceramic Shield 2, a new feature that provides better resistance to damage and reduced glare. Another benefit of ProMotion is that it has an adaptive refresh rate of up to 120Hz.Also: Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: I compared both models, and here are the differencesUp until now, ProMotion was reserved for higher-end models. With this upgrade, the iPhone 17 is a great choice for people who want a premium viewing experience without needing to pay a premium price.2. You prefer a traditional designI'll get into this in detail later, but every other iPhone 17 model has seen drastic changes to its design. The iPhone Air, for example, is incredibly thin, while the iPhone Pro models introduce a "plateau" that houses important components.If you want the traditional iPhone design of raised camera rings on the back and sleek, contoured edges, stick with the base iPhone 17. It keeps the old style that people have grown to love over the years. Also, it's the same size as the iPhone 16 Pro. So if you're used to the old Pro model, the transition to the iPhone 17 will be seamless.
iPhone 17 View now at AppleYou should buy the iPhone Air if…
Kerry Wan/ZDNET1. You want the thinnest iPhone ever madeThe iPhone Air is Apple's boldest design move in years. It has an ultrathin smartphone, measuring just 5.6 millimeters thick -- roughly a third thinner than the iPhone 16 Pro. It is Apple's slimmest iPhone ever made and perfect for anyone who values ultraportable devices. Despite its slim frame, the iPhone Air doesn't skimp on the hardware because the device comes with not one, not two, but three chips inside.Also: The best iPhone 17 accessories you should buy if you're planning to upgradeYou have the A19 Pro, a fast-performing 6-core processor. Then there's the N1, which is a "new Apple-designed wireless chip" enabling support for Wi-Fi 7, Bluetooth 6, and the smart home standard Thread. Finally, the iPhone Air has the C1X, a new cellular modem Apple says is designed" to be twice as fast as the C1 and more energy efficient.2. You don't mind trading in some features.To achieve such a thin form factor, Apple had to gut some key iPhone features. The iPhone Air only comes with a single rear camera, a 48 Fusion lens. This single camera lets users take photographs in both 28mm and 35mm focal lengths, as well as shoot high-quality macro photos. It also relies solely on eSIM for cellular connection. You won't be able to insert your old SIM card in the Air model. If you can live with these sacrifices, the iPhone 17 Air provides a good balance of style and performance that the others can't provide.
iPhone Air View now at AppleYou should buy the iPhone 17 Pro if…
Nina Raemont/ZDNET1. You want advanced camera upgrades.Every single model under the iPhone 17 umbrella has received substantial camera upgrades. For instance, all four have a new Center Stage selfie camera. This upgraded lens houses a "square front camera sensor," delivering a "wider field of view and higher resolution" images. It even lets you take landscape selfies without needing to rotate the smartphone horizontally.Also: iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro: I compared both models, and here's who should upgradeBut the iPhone 17 Pro takes things even further by housing three 48MP Fusion cameras for taking sharper photos and highly detailed images. This is thanks in part to the "updated Photonic Engine," which uses artificial intelligence to "preserve natural detail, reduce noise, and provide" better color accuracy. Additionally, Apple's smartphone houses a "new 48MP Telephoto camera" with a larger sensor for improving low-light photography.2. You want a fresh designApart from a few design tweaks over the years, iPhone Pro models have effectively looked identical since the iPhone 12 Pro. But for the iPhone 17 Pro duo, Apple has seen fit to introduce more significant changes. Both the 17 Pro and Pro Max have a "brushed aluminum unibody," allowing the smartphones to be lightweight and deliver better thermal performance. Inside this frame is a vapor chamber carrying de-ionized water to move heat away from its A19 Pro processor. Around the back is a raised plateau providing extra space for key components, including a bigger battery. Apple says the iPhone 17 Pro can last up to 39 hours of video playback on a single charge.
iPhone 17 Pro View now at AppleYou should buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max if…
This photo of the iPhone 17 Pro Max in Cosmic Orange was taken with the telephoto lens on an iPhone 17 Pro Max. Jason Hiner/ZDNET1. You want the best possible performanceLike the iPhone 17 Pro, the iPhone 17 Pro Max runs on the A19 Pro chipset, a powerful piece of hardware consisting of a 6-core CPU and a 6-core GPU with "Neural Accelerators built into each GPU core." Alongside these components is Apple's new 16-core Neural Engine for powering AI models, delivering stunning graphical fidelity, and ensuring high frames. A chip like this will undoubtedly run hot. Luckily, the iPhone 17 Pro Max has the same vapor chamber as the 17 Pro to keep it cool.Also: iPhone 17 sales are open: Here's where you can find free phone dealsSimilar to the iPhone Air, Apple's flagship device houses the N1 networking chip to enable support for Wi-Fi 7, Bluetooth 6, and Thread. Something that I didn't mention earlier is that the N1 improves the reliability of features like AirDrop.2. You want the best iPhone displayOut of the entire series, the iPhone 17 Pro Max has the best screen, boasting a massive 6.9-inch Super Retina XDR display. Support for Apple's ProMotion tech provides a velvety-smooth refresh rate of up to 120Hz. Plus, the iPhone 17 Pro Max is much brighter than the iPhone 16 Pro as it now hits a brightness level of 3,000 nits, "as well as 2x better outdoor contrast." And again, just like the iPhone Air, the high-end smartphone has a screen protected by Ceramic Shield 2 for exceptional toughness.
iPhone 17 Pro View now at AppleAlternatives to consider
BEST iPHONE ALTERNATIVE iPhone 16 Pro Max The iPhone 16 Pro Max remains a formidable smartphone thanks to its vibrant 6.9-inch ProMotion display and large battery, ensuring a long runtime.
View at Apple
BEST ULTRA-THIN ALTERNATIVE Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra Samsung's Galaxy S25 Ultra is packed with AI features, such as Generative Edit, which removes unwanted objects from photos.
View at Samsung
BEST ANDROID ALTERNATIVE Google Pixel 10 Pro XL Would-be photographers will love the camera system on the Pixel 10 Pro XL. It uses generative AI to fill in any lost details.
View at Google Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use