Best blood pressure watches: I tested the top models that actually work | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: June 28, 2025 at 3:00 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
Updated on: June 28, 2025 at 3:00 AM PDT
I tested the best blood pressure watches in 2025: Here are the top options
I tested some of the top blood pressure watches available, and considered medical research and current FDA guidance, to help you choose the best one for your needs.
Written by
Matthew Miller, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Reviewed by
Alison DeNisco Rayome
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends YHE BP Doctor Fit | Best blood pressure smartwatch overall
Best blood pressure smartwatch overall
YHE BP Doctor Fit
View now View at YHE Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 | Best blood pressure smartwatch for most people
Best blood pressure smartwatch for most people
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra | Best blood pressure smartwatch with advanced features
Best blood pressure smartwatch with advanced features
Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra
View now View at Samsung FitVII Smartwatch | Best budget-friendly blood pressure watch
Best budget-friendly blood pressure watch
FitVII Smartwatch
View now View at Amazon Med-Watch Pro | Best standalone blood pressure watch
Best standalone blood pressure watch
Med-Watch Pro
View now View at Med-watch
Best smartwatch deals of the week
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $85 (save $25)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $200 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra (Wi-Fi, LTE, 47mm, Titanium Silver):  $500 (save $150)
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 46mm, Black, M/L Sports Band):  $359 (save $70)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Bluetooth, 40mm, Cream):  $200 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
High blood pressure, or hypertension, affects an estimated 1.3 billion people worldwide, according to the World Heart Federation, and it's the number one risk factor for death on a global scale. There are effective means to treat high blood pressure, but it's not always easy to detect and monitor. Blood pressure watches offer a convenient, non-invasive way to keep track of your cardiovascular health on the go so you can consult with your healthcare provider. YHE offers a very accurate assortment of blood pressure watches starting at just $129, while the Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra is at the high end with a price of $425. Whether you're managing hypertension, staying proactive about your wellness, or simply curious about your vital stats, these innovative smartwatches combine style, functionality, and accuracy. Also: Best Android smartwatches: Expert testedWhat is the best blood pressure watch you can buy right now? To help you find the top smartwatch that functions as a blood pressure monitoring tool, we found studies from doctors evaluating the best commercially available blood pressure watches, keeping in mind accuracy, data privacy, and price. We also tested a few of the watches and compared the watch readings to blood pressure cuffs mounted on the arm. The best blood pressure that you can purchase for the US market is the YHE BP Doctor Fit, which is one of the few wearables available that captures your blood pressure using an inflatable cuff around the wrist. Read on to see how all of the available blood pressure watch options compare.See blood pressure watches at Amazon
Sort by
All
The best blood pressure watches of 2025  Show less
View now at YHE Why we like it: The YHE BP Doctor Fit promises medical-grade accuracy in measuring blood pressure, and after testing it for a few weeks, we can confirm that is a valid promise. The key is the watch's patented inflatable air cuff, which detects blood pressure fluctuations. You can measure your blood pressure at any time, and the watch has a host of other features, including typical activity tracking and sleep tracking.Review: I tried the $129 blood pressure watch, and it came close to my Withings and Garmin trackersWho it's for: If you need to capture your blood pressure easily throughout the day, the BP Doctor Fit is a great option. The watch's heart rate monitor tracks your heart rate continuously, 24 hours a day. The YHE BP Doctor Fit is a full-range smartwatch with sleep, activity, and health tracking, along with alarms, messages, and weather. You can sync your data to the Android or iOS app and create a health management plan that includes your whole family.We were surprised by the low price given the solid build quality, vibrant AMOLED display, long battery life, blood pressure monitoring capability, and functional smartphone application. There is no support for third-party apps, but all of the basics you need are there to function as a daily wear smartwatch. Who should look elsewhere: If you are looking for a watch that provides GPS activity tracking and extensive app support, you should consider a Galaxy Watch. However, if you want the most accurate blood pressure readings in a watch form factor, then this is the one for you. YHE BP Doctor Fit features: BP measurement: Inflatable cuff | Size: 48 x 39 x 13 mm | Weight: 60 g | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery Life: 10 days | App: For both iPhone and Android
Pros
Results within 6-8 mmHG of a standard blood pressure arm cuff
Battery lasts for a week
Basic health and wellness tracking
Low price
Cons
No GPS for outside activity tracking
Charging capable has weak magnets
YHE BP Doctor Fit Best blood pressure smartwatch overall
Why we like it: The YHE BP Doctor Fit promises medical-grade accuracy in measuring blood pressure, and after testing it for a few weeks, we can confirm that is a valid promise. The key is the watch's patented inflatable air cuff, which detects blood pressure fluctuations. You can measure your blood pressure at any time, and the watch has a host of other features, including typical activity tracking and sleep tracking.Review: I tried the $129 blood pressure watch, and it came close to my Withings and Garmin trackersWho it's for: If you need to capture your blood pressure easily throughout the day, the BP Doctor Fit is a great option. The watch's heart rate monitor tracks your heart rate continuously, 24 hours a day. The YHE BP Doctor Fit is a full-range smartwatch with sleep, activity, and health tracking, along with alarms, messages, and weather. You can sync your data to the Android or iOS app and create a health management plan that includes your whole family.We were surprised by the low price given the solid build quality, vibrant AMOLED display, long battery life, blood pressure monitoring capability, and functional smartphone application. There is no support for third-party apps, but all of the basics you need are there to function as a daily wear smartwatch. Who should look elsewhere: If you are looking for a watch that provides GPS activity tracking and extensive app support, you should consider a Galaxy Watch. However, if you want the most accurate blood pressure readings in a watch form factor, then this is the one for you. YHE BP Doctor Fit features: BP measurement: Inflatable cuff | Size: 48 x 39 x 13 mm | Weight: 60 g | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery Life: 10 days | App: For both iPhone and Android
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best Buy Why we like it: The Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 is an internationally popular wearable that can measure your blood pressure. The Galaxy Watch 7 measures blood pressure and, using the watch's built-in health monitor app, takes ECG readings as well. However, Samsung does
that the blood pressure function "cannot diagnose hypertension, other conditions, or check for signs of a heart attack. It is not meant to replace traditional methods of diagnosis or treatment by a qualified healthcare professional."Review: Google Pixel Watch 3 vs. Samsung Galaxy Watch 7: Which Android smartwatch is best for you?Who it's for: The watch is packed with other features, including sleep tracking and music streaming, and it also made ZDNET's list of the best smartwatches. It shows particular promise in monitoring existing conditions. A
conducted with the Galaxy Watch showed that taking blood pressure measurements with the watch resulted in reliable and accurate readings. The watch was used to help monitor BP in patients with Parkinson's Disease.The blood pressure function has not yet received FDA approval in the US, but it is available in at least 50 other countries, including Canada, Vietnam, and South Africa. (If you are in the US and still want to use the feature without FDA clearance, you can find unofficial workarounds online to do so.) To ensure accurate readings, users must calibrate their watches monthly with a traditional blood pressure cuff. Who should look elsewhere: If you are in the US and do not want to "hack" your watch to enable blood pressure support, then the Galaxy Watch 7 is not going to help you monitor your blood pressure. The YHE BP Doctor Fit is best for that task.Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 features: BP measurement: Pulse wave analysis | Size: 40mm and 44mm | Weight: 28.8 and 33.8 grams | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery life: Three days on a single charge | App: Galaxy Wearable
Pros
Sleek, capable smartwatch
Brilliant AMOLED display
Advanced health and wellness tracking
Google Wear OS support
Cons
Blood pressure remains elusive in the US
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 Best blood pressure smartwatch for most people
Why we like it: The Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 is an internationally popular wearable that can measure your blood pressure. The Galaxy Watch 7 measures blood pressure and, using the watch's built-in health monitor app, takes ECG readings as well. However, Samsung does
that the blood pressure function "cannot diagnose hypertension, other conditions, or check for signs of a heart attack. It is not meant to replace traditional methods of diagnosis or treatment by a qualified healthcare professional."Review: Google Pixel Watch 3 vs. Samsung Galaxy Watch 7: Which Android smartwatch is best for you?Who it's for: The watch is packed with other features, including sleep tracking and music streaming, and it also made ZDNET's list of the best smartwatches. It shows particular promise in monitoring existing conditions. A
conducted with the Galaxy Watch showed that taking blood pressure measurements with the watch resulted in reliable and accurate readings. The watch was used to help monitor BP in patients with Parkinson's Disease.The blood pressure function has not yet received FDA approval in the US, but it is available in at least 50 other countries, including Canada, Vietnam, and South Africa. (If you are in the US and still want to use the feature without FDA clearance, you can find unofficial workarounds online to do so.) To ensure accurate readings, users must calibrate their watches monthly with a traditional blood pressure cuff. Who should look elsewhere: If you are in the US and do not want to "hack" your watch to enable blood pressure support, then the Galaxy Watch 7 is not going to help you monitor your blood pressure. The YHE BP Doctor Fit is best for that task.Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 features: BP measurement: Pulse wave analysis | Size: 40mm and 44mm | Weight: 28.8 and 33.8 grams | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery life: Three days on a single charge | App: Galaxy Wearable
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at SamsungView now at Best Buy Why we like it: The Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra has a unique square design with a round watch face, an interesting magnetic lug system, three buttons on one side, gesture support, advanced running dynamics, and more. Samsung's Galaxy AI is present in the form of wellness insights that combine into a daily score to help guide you to optimal performance, including healthy sleep levels.The Watch Ultra runs the Samsung-powered Google Wear OS 5.0 with One UI Watch 6.0, meaning it still looks like a Samsung smartwatch but also supports Google Assistant, Google Maps, Google Wallet, Google Play Store, and more Google apps.Review: I've tested dozens of smartwatches, but I'm wearing the Galaxy Ultra Watch long-termWho it's for: The Watch Ultra has an operating system optimized for the round watch design with a virtual rotating bezel. Fall detection, messaging, phone calls, and more are available on the watch, with advanced fitness data such as VO2 Max and advanced running dynamics data also supported. If you have large wrists, spend lots of time exploring the outdoors, or want a rugged, long-battery-life Wear OS watch, then the Galaxy Watch Ultra is for you.Like the Galaxy Watch 7, the blood pressure function has not yet received FDA approval in the US, but it is available in at least 50 other countries, including Canada, Vietnam, and South Africa. (If you are in the US and still want to use the feature without FDA clearance, you can find unofficial workarounds online to do so.) Again, to ensure accurate readings, users must calibrate their watches monthly with a traditional blood pressure cuff. Who should look elsewhere: Again, if you are in the US and do not want to "hack" your watch to enable blood pressure support, then the Galaxy Watch Ultra is not going to help you monitor your blood pressure. The YHE BP Doctor Fit is best for that task.Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra features: BP measurement: Pulse wave analysis | Size: 47mm | Weight: 60.5 grams | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery life: Three days on a single charge | App: Galaxy Wearable
Pros
Rugged materials and certification
Sapphire glass AMOLED display
Long battery life
Google Wear OS support
Cons
Too large for smaller wrists
Blood pressure remains elusive in the US
Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra Best blood pressure smartwatch with advanced features
Why we like it: The Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra has a unique square design with a round watch face, an interesting magnetic lug system, three buttons on one side, gesture support, advanced running dynamics, and more. Samsung's Galaxy AI is present in the form of wellness insights that combine into a daily score to help guide you to optimal performance, including healthy sleep levels.The Watch Ultra runs the Samsung-powered Google Wear OS 5.0 with One UI Watch 6.0, meaning it still looks like a Samsung smartwatch but also supports Google Assistant, Google Maps, Google Wallet, Google Play Store, and more Google apps.Review: I've tested dozens of smartwatches, but I'm wearing the Galaxy Ultra Watch long-termWho it's for: The Watch Ultra has an operating system optimized for the round watch design with a virtual rotating bezel. Fall detection, messaging, phone calls, and more are available on the watch, with advanced fitness data such as VO2 Max and advanced running dynamics data also supported. If you have large wrists, spend lots of time exploring the outdoors, or want a rugged, long-battery-life Wear OS watch, then the Galaxy Watch Ultra is for you.Like the Galaxy Watch 7, the blood pressure function has not yet received FDA approval in the US, but it is available in at least 50 other countries, including Canada, Vietnam, and South Africa. (If you are in the US and still want to use the feature without FDA clearance, you can find unofficial workarounds online to do so.) Again, to ensure accurate readings, users must calibrate their watches monthly with a traditional blood pressure cuff. Who should look elsewhere: Again, if you are in the US and do not want to "hack" your watch to enable blood pressure support, then the Galaxy Watch Ultra is not going to help you monitor your blood pressure. The YHE BP Doctor Fit is best for that task.Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra features: BP measurement: Pulse wave analysis | Size: 47mm | Weight: 60.5 grams | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery life: Three days on a single charge | App: Galaxy Wearable
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Fitvii Why we like it: Emerging tech can be expensive, and given the blood pressure wearable market is still emerging, it's rare to find models for under $100 -- so we had to share this option from FitVII. At the time of writing, this watch is only $45 on Amazon and has a 4-star rating from over 4,700 reviewers who say they are impressed with the reading consistency and app's user-friendly interface. Who it's for: Along with a more affordable blood pressure tracking function, this watch tracks sleep, analyzing the time you've spent in deep sleep or light sleep. It tracks your activity and gives you the weather in real time, as well as heart rate, blood pressure, and blood oxygen tracking on its 1.7-inch HD screen. Additionally, it has a 7- to 10-day battery life. The FitVII website also sells the GT5 watch with 24/7 heart rate and blood pressure monitoring for around $100.Also: Best cheap smartwatches 2025Who should look elsewhere: If you have high blood pressure and want to monitor trends, you should consider spending a bit more to buy an accurate one like the YHE BP Doctor Fit rather than saving a few bucks on this one that compromises in too many ways.FitVII Smartwatch features: BP measurement: Sensors | Size: 1.7 inches | Weight: 1.2 oz (34.02 g) | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery life: 7+ days | App: FitCloudPro App
Pros
Full tracking suite
7+ days of typical use
2-year warranty
Cons
Sleep tracking doesn't measure REM sleep
Vibration alerts for phone notifications can be distracting
Not compatible with PC or tablet
FitVII Smartwatch Best budget-friendly blood pressure watch
Why we like it: Emerging tech can be expensive, and given the blood pressure wearable market is still emerging, it's rare to find models for under $100 -- so we had to share this option from FitVII. At the time of writing, this watch is only $45 on Amazon and has a 4-star rating from over 4,700 reviewers who say they are impressed with the reading consistency and app's user-friendly interface. Who it's for: Along with a more affordable blood pressure tracking function, this watch tracks sleep, analyzing the time you've spent in deep sleep or light sleep. It tracks your activity and gives you the weather in real time, as well as heart rate, blood pressure, and blood oxygen tracking on its 1.7-inch HD screen. Additionally, it has a 7- to 10-day battery life. The FitVII website also sells the GT5 watch with 24/7 heart rate and blood pressure monitoring for around $100.Also: Best cheap smartwatches 2025Who should look elsewhere: If you have high blood pressure and want to monitor trends, you should consider spending a bit more to buy an accurate one like the YHE BP Doctor Fit rather than saving a few bucks on this one that compromises in too many ways.FitVII Smartwatch features: BP measurement: Sensors | Size: 1.7 inches | Weight: 1.2 oz (34.02 g) | Power source: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery | Battery life: 7+ days | App: FitCloudPro App
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Med-watch Why we like it: For those who want a blood pressure watch without having to connect your data to a smartphone or an app, the Med-Watch Pro is a great option. It houses all your health data in the device itself. If you do want to connect it to your smartphone, the DaFit app provides more helpful insights and personal recommendations based on your data. Who it's for: The Med-Watch Pro measures your blood pressure using an optical sensor to detect blood flow beneath the skin. More specifically, a technique called photoplethysmography (PPG) allows the watch to emit light into the skin and measure changes in light absorption to calculate blood pressure. It takes only 30 seconds or less to get a blood pressure reading. In addition to blood pressure, the Med-Watch Pro measures heart rate, blood oxygen levels, sleep patterns, daily steps, and more for overall health tracking. Who should look elsewhere: If you have high blood pressure and want to monitor trends, you should consider spending about the same to buy an accurate and proven model like the YHE BP Doctor Fit rather than purchasing one using less accurate technology.Med-Watch Pro tech specs: BP measurement: Optical sensors | Size: Adjustable strap (5.5-8.5 inches) | Weight: N/A | Power source: Rechargeable battery | Battery life: Up to a week | App: DaFit app
Pros
Don't need a smartphone to use it
Other helpful health tracking features
Takes only 30 seconds to get a blood pressure reading
Cons
Problems with charger/charging
Not as high-tech or as accurate as other options
Med-Watch Pro Best standalone blood pressure watch
Why we like it: For those who want a blood pressure watch without having to connect your data to a smartphone or an app, the Med-Watch Pro is a great option. It houses all your health data in the device itself. If you do want to connect it to your smartphone, the DaFit app provides more helpful insights and personal recommendations based on your data. Who it's for: The Med-Watch Pro measures your blood pressure using an optical sensor to detect blood flow beneath the skin. More specifically, a technique called photoplethysmography (PPG) allows the watch to emit light into the skin and measure changes in light absorption to calculate blood pressure. It takes only 30 seconds or less to get a blood pressure reading. In addition to blood pressure, the Med-Watch Pro measures heart rate, blood oxygen levels, sleep patterns, daily steps, and more for overall health tracking. Who should look elsewhere: If you have high blood pressure and want to monitor trends, you should consider spending about the same to buy an accurate and proven model like the YHE BP Doctor Fit rather than purchasing one using less accurate technology.Med-Watch Pro tech specs: BP measurement: Optical sensors | Size: Adjustable strap (5.5-8.5 inches) | Weight: N/A | Power source: Rechargeable battery | Battery life: Up to a week | App: DaFit app
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less Blood pressure watches compared
Blood pressure watchPriceHow does it work?WeightPower sourceYHE BP Doctor Fit$129Inflatable cuff2.12 ozRechargeable lithium-ion batterySamsung Galaxy Watch 7$300 and $330Pulse wave analysis, monthly calibration with traditional blood pressure cuff1.0 and 1.19 ozRechargeable lithium-ion batterySamsung Galaxy Watch Ultra$425Pulse wave analysis, monthly calibration with traditional blood pressure cuff2.1 ozRechargeable lithium-ion batteryFitVII Smartwatch$45Sensors1.2 ozRechargeable lithium-ion batteryMed-Watch Pro$150Optical sensorsN/ARechargeable battery
Show more
Which is the right blood pressure watch for you?
Choose this blood pressure watch…If you want…YHE BP Doctor FitTo measure your blood pressure with medical-grade accuracy. It also measures your heart rate, blood oxygen, and sleep stages. It's a capable smartwatch that provides access to essential apps.Samsung Galaxy Watch 7A popular smartwatch that can measure blood pressure and take ECGs on the go. These features are only available in select countries at the moment.Samsung Galaxy Watch UltraThe best big smartwatch available today that can also measure blood pressure. The watch will last for days and help you track your health and wellness.FitVII SmartwatchA budget-friendly blood pressure monitor with plenty of reviews that speak to its accuracy and reliability. It also comes with additional smartwatch features, like step and calorie counting.Med-Watch ProA blood pressure watch that doesn't require your smartphone. It also tracks other health metrics like heart rate, blood oxygen levels, daily steps, and more.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing a blood pressure watch
There are not as many options today for blood pressure watches as there are for smartwatches, but rumors indicate that the technology and functionality will likely expand to more popular smartwatches in the near future. Here are a few factors to consider, based on our years of experience testing wearables:Capability: The Samsung Galaxy Watch 7, and other supported Galaxy Watch models, require that you measure and baseline your blood pressure readings with a certified external monitor and enter that data into the app. The watch then measures the incremental changes from that baseline and provides your blood pressure reading. Other watches in this list use an inflatable cuff to measure your blood pressure directly.Other functions: The Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 and Ultra are full-blown smartwatches that run Google's Wear OS, but other watches in this list focus primarily on capturing your blood pressure and providing you with the time and data. Make sure you check out the functions available in the watch and evaluate whether or not you need more from your blood pressure watch.Fit and comfort: Anyone that has captured their blood pressure reading knows that placement of the blood pressure monitor is important in capturing accurate readings. Thus, the watch you use for your blood pressure should also fit well and be comfortable as you capture your readings. A blood pressure watch is used primarily for convenience and the ability to easily capture your readings throughout the day so comfort and fit are vital to success.
Show more
How we choose these blood pressure watches
One obstacle we ran into when choosing the best blood pressure watches was the lack of options. The concept of a blood pressure watch itself seems to be embraced by many, but we found the execution to be less robust.With few options on the market, it is easy to weed out the fake or unreliable wearables from the legit ones. We took into consideration a few major factors when choosing these best blood pressure watches: Commercial availability: For example, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 and Ultra still do not have FDA approval in the United States for blood pressure readings, so that feature isn't an option for the US market.Accuracy: We looked at evidence of accuracy from studies and medical research when choosing what blood pressure watches to consider.Data privacy: Health information is extremely important to keep secure with wearables, so we looked into each brand and device's privacy protocols to ensure consumers' health data is safe.Price: We keep price in mind when making our final picks while knowing there aren't many options on the market. However, more economical wearables don't seem as reliable or as focused on data privacy.
Show more
Latest news on blood pressure watches
Samsung continues to seek FDA approval for its blood pressure monitoring capability, and hopefully someday it will be able to provide this support officially in the US. Rumors indicate that Apple may be working to provide this key functionality in a future Apple Watch. Given the prevalence of high blood pressure in the US, a major smartwatch brand could certainly benefit from providing this capability.
Show more
FAQs on blood pressure watches
Do blood pressure watches really work?
We know, a watch that measures blood pressure sounds like something out of a science fiction novel. Recent advances mean that futuristic wearables are becoming more realistic than ever before. Blood pressure watches that are vetted and tested really do work, but I recommend talking to your doctor before use.In an article featured in IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine, Dr. Paolo Bonato, associate professor at Harvard Medical School, identified four areas of focus that are especially important when understanding recent advances in wearables: 1) wearable sensors; 2) wearable systems; 3) signal processing and analysis procedures; and 4) closed-loop systems for adaptive orthoses and prostheses. The first three areas are important in blood pressure monitoring, as sensors and systems feed into analysis and recommendations by doctors. Here's a comprehensive paper on wearable tech in healthcare that Dr. Bonato contributed to for those who want to learn more.
Show more
What is stroke level blood pressure?
According to Healthline, the blood pressure range for a hypertension crisis is a systolic number above 180 mm Hg and a diastolic number above 120 mm Hg. Immediate medical attention is required at that level. Healthy blood pressure is a reading of less than 120/80 mmHg, while elevated blood pressure ranges from a systolic number of 120-129 mm Hg and a diastolic number of less than 80 mmHg. Hypertension occurs starting at 130-139/80-89 mmHg. It's good to have an idea of where your blood pressure should fall. Hypertension doesn't result in visible symptoms right away, so it's important to detect and manage it early on.
Show more
Does the Apple Watch measure blood pressure?
You cannot measure blood pressure with an Apple Watch alone. You can link it to a compatible blood pressure monitor and synchronize your blood pressure data to your Apple Watch. The Omron Evolv wireless blood pressure monitor is a compatible device, and the iHealth Feel wireless blood pressure monitor works, too.
Show more
How accurate is the blood oxygen sensor on the Apple Watch?
The blood oxygen sensor in the Apple Watch measures the percentage of oxygen your red blood cells carry from your lungs to the rest of your body. It's an important health metric since it can help you better understand your overall wellness. According to a 2022 medical study, the measurement of blood oxygen levels (in an Apple Watch Series 6) was not yet up to the medical standard of pulse oximetry; too many of the measurements remain unsuccessful or incorrect. Studies have not been conducted on the most recent Apple Watch models. *Important Note: Earlier this year, a US federal judge has ruled that Apple cannot sell its Series 10 and Ultra 2 smartwatches if they have the blood oxygen sensor, due to a patent violation. As a result, a ban was placed on the import of all Apple watches with the feature. Apple Watch users in the US are no longer able to access the blood oxygen monitor app or sensors.
Show more
What's a high blood pressure reading?
High blood pressure is equal to or greater than 140 over 90 mmHg, where the top number is a measure of the force in your arteries as your heart beats and pumps blood, and the bottom number is a measure of the force in your arteries as your heart is resting between beats.
Show more
Latest updates In our latest June update, we added in more information about who would benefit from each watch, updated pricing to reflect the most current costs and also provided some thoughts on possible future blood pressure watch availability. Other wearables we've tested for health tracking
Best health tracking alternative Apple Watch Series 8 The latest Apple Watch is packed with health features you can use to support healthy habits or even create new ones.
View at Amazon
Best smart ring alternative Oura Ring Gen3 I've made no secret of how much I love this ring. It's lightweight, stylish, and insightful, as well as packed with sleep, activity, and readiness insights.
View at Oura Ring
Best cuff alternative iHealth Neo Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor This blood pressure cuff is an FDA-cleared medical device that connects to an app to accurately read your blood pressure. It also has a rechargeable battery.
View at Amazon
Best Samsung alternative Samsung Galaxy Ring While the new Galaxy Ring doesn't measure blood pressure, it does measure other important metrics like heart rate, respiration rate, blood oxygen, and heart rate variability.
View at Best Buy Former ZDNET contributor Sherin Shibu also contributed to this story.
ZDNET’s Smartwatch Guide
Smartwatch Roundups
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Smartwatches Reviewed & Compared
Apple Watch Series 9 review
Google Pixel Watch 2 review
Apple Watch Ultra review
Amazfit GTR 4 review
Garmin Forerunner 225 music review
Apple Watch Series 8 review
Apple Watch Series 9 vs Series 10
Apple Watch Series 10 vs Series 8
Apple Watch Series 9 vs Series 8
Apple Watch Series 9 vs Ultra 2
Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Classic vs Watch 5 Pro
Garmin forerunner 265 vs 965
Apple Watches Explained
Apple Watch strap stuck? Here’s how to remove it
How to enable the activity sharing feature on
your Apple Watch
How to pair and unpair an Apple Watch
How to clean your Apple Watch in 5 steps
How to change your Apple Watch face
9 ways to get more out of your Apple Watch
How to change fitness goals on Apple Watch
How to set up an Apple Watch
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use