This mini PC with an Intel Core i7 is going to blow you away, and it's now $200 off
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This mini PC with an Intel Core i7 is going to blow you away, and it's now $200 off
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Link copied to clipboard
GMKtec M3 Ultra Mini PC
$430
$630
Save $200
Don't let the size fool you, this mini PC packs quite a bit of power and is now down to its lowest price at $200 off.
$430 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
We love mini PCs. Not only are they great as desktop PC replacements, but they can also be used in a variety of projects that sit outside the realm of normal use. Of course, pricing is also why these devices are flying off the shelves, and we've managed to find a pretty good deal on this GMKtec M3 Ultra, which is now seeing a steep $200 discount, thanks to a special coupon promotion from Amazon.
It's compact, has tons of power, and lots of ports
This mini PC is powered by an Intel Core i7 12700H processor that's paired with 32GB of DDR4 RAM and 1TB of SSD storage. The good news here is that there's also room to upgrade, with the device handling up to 64GB of RAM and 4TB of SSD storage. This is something you don't see with a lot of mini PCs, and it is something that can easily extend the life of the PC for years.
In addition to the above, the mini PC features Intel Iris XE graphics, along with plenty of connectivity. You get four USB-A ports, one USB-C, two HDMI, and a 3.5mm audio jack. There's also wireless connectivity with Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.2. In total, you'll be able to connect three 4K monitors at one time, which should be plenty if you're looking to expand your screen real estate.
Again, this mini PC can be used as a desktop replacement, making it perfect for use in the home or office, or you can make it the heart of your home lab, or a makeshift NAS. Regardless of what you choose to use it for, the possibilities are endless for the most part, especially with this unit since it comes with so much power right out of the box. The $200 discount also helps too because it's not a bad price for all that you're getting.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
3 days ago
6 features that make Batocera the undeniable king of retro emulation operating systems
4 days ago
I thought setting up custom domain names for my home lab was difficult - it’s actually simple
3 days ago
5 expansion cards for that spare M.2 slot on your motherboard
3 days ago
3 reasons why I run my RAM slower than its rated speed
Today's best deals
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
3 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
15 hours ago
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
22 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
One of the best ways to avoid Windows 11's requirements is back from the dead, and it's celebrating with new features
I found a secret Obsidian plugin and now I never fumble at my tasks
This self-hosted tool was only meant to be temporary, but now I can't live without it
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.