Hollywood Reacts to 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' Being Canceled - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Hollywood reacts to 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' being suspended
By
Aditi Bharade
,
Thibault Spirlet
, and
Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert
ABC canceled Jimmy Kimmel's talk show over his comments on Charlie Kirk.
Rich Polk/Variety via Getty Images
2025-09-19T06:01:24Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Hollywood celebrities are voicing support for Jimmy Kimmel after his show got pulled by ABC.
ABC suspended the show over Kimmel's comments on the killing of Charlie Kirk in a Monday episode.
Reactions from celebrities, including Ben Stiller, Wanda Sykes, and Jean Smart, have poured in.
Hollywood is rallying behind Jimmy Kimmel, after his talk show, "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" got pulled from ABC.ABC "indefinitely" suspended the show over Kimmel's comments on the shooting of the conservative activist Charlie Kirk on September 10.
"We had some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them," Kimmel said in a Monday episode of his show.He added that Trump's supporters were politicizing the shooting.Reactions from actors and comedians have poured in, expressing dismay over the show's suspension.
The Jimmy Kimmel fallout is ramping up. Get caught up here:Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the airThere's a $6.2 billion deal looming over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionLate-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business modelThese are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel againPeter Kafka: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.
David Letterman
David Letterman on Thursday lamented ABC's decision to end Jimmy Kimmel's show.
John Nacion/Variety via Getty Images
The iconic talk show host decried Kimmel's suspension during an appearance Thursday at The Atlantic Festival 2025 in New York."This is misery," Letterman said, discussing the suspension at length with the interview host and editor in chief of The Atlantic, Jeffrey Goldberg."We see where this is all going, correct? It's managed media. And it's no good. It's silly. It's ridiculous. And you can't go around firing somebody because you're fearful or trying to suck up to an authoritarian criminal administration in the Oval Office. That's just not how this works."In his 30-year career as a talk show host, Letterman said he'd never felt pressure from the White House after poking fun at former presidents from Jimmy Carter through Barack Obama, the way current show hosts are being pressured by the Trump administration."And attacked these men mercilessly," Letterman said. "Beating up on these people, rightly or wrongly, accurately or perhaps inaccurately, in the name of comedy, not once were we squeezed by anyone from any governmental agency, let alone the dreaded FCC, Republican or Democrat. Never."Letterman said he'd texted with Kimmel since the announcement came down, drawing laughs from the audience when he said that Kimmel was "up in bed, taking nourishment," and that the canceled host was "going to be fine."While Letterman said he was not overly concerned about Kimmel's immediate well-being, he said the show's cancellation may have been "premeditated at some level," given that Trump had alluded to Kimmel's removal after the July announcement that Colbert's show would be taken off air next year.On July 18, in a Truth Social post, Trump celebrated Colbert's cancellation, writing, "I hear Jimmy Kimmel is next. Has even less talent than Colbert!""The institution of the president of the United States ought to be bigger than a guy doing a talk show," Letterman said. Adding that Kimmel's removal from late-night TV was "predicted by our president right after Stephen Colbert got walked off."
Damon Lindelof
Screenwriter and producer Damon Lindelof said on Instagram that he was "shocked, saddened, and infuriated" by Kimmel's cancellation.
Araya Doheny/Variety via Getty Images
The screenwriter and producer posted his thoughts about Kimmel's cancellation on Instagram, saying in a Thursday post that he was "shocked, saddened, and infuriated" by the news, and said he would not work with Disney in the future if the suspension was not reversed.Lindelof was an executive producer on "Lost," which was a smash hit on ABC from 2004 to 2010."I was shocked, saddened and infuriated by yesterday's suspension and look forward to it being lifted soon," Lindelof wrote. "If it isn't, I can't in good conscience work for the company that imposed it. If you're about to fire up in my comments, just ask yourself if you know the difference between hate speech and a joke. I think you still do. And Jimmy? You've ALWAYS known what you were doing. Love you and support you."
Ben Stiller
Ben Stiller said the show being pulled off the air wasn't right.
Gilbert Flores/Variety via Getty Images
The actor and comedian Ben Stiller used just a few words to describe his feelings about the show's suspension.Reposting an X post by The Wall Street Journal's journalist about the news, Stiller wrote, "This isn't right."The "Zoolander" actor made the post on Wednesday evening.
Wanda Sykes
Wanda Sykes said Trump had ended freedom of speech.
Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP
The actor and comedian Wanda Sykes made a reel on Instagram to criticize the Trump administration.In the reel, posted on Wednesday evening, she said she had a full face of makeup on because she was set to go on Kimmel's show."But as you have heard by now, the Jimmy Kimmel show has been pulled indefinitely, abruptly, because of complaints from the Trump administration," Sykes said.She said Trump had ended freedom of speech within his first year of his term.Sykes ended the reel saying, "Love you, Jimmy."
Paul Scheer
Paul Scheer protested the show being pulled.
Gilbert Flores/Variety via Getty Images
Paul Scheer, an actor, comedian, and podcaster, protested the show being pulled from ABC.Near midnight on Thursday, Scheer posted on Threads about the show's suspension, musing on why ABC couldn't air the show on its cable affiliates like ESPN.
Alex Edelman
Alex Edelman posted about the show's cancellation on X.
Todd Williamson/Peacock via Getty Images
Alex Edelman, a comedian, actor, and writer, made a series of posts on X about Kimmel's show being taken off the air.Edelman, who stars in "The Paper," first posted about it on Wednesday evening, saying, "This is the actual cancel culture everyone claims to hate so much."He then criticized the government, accusing it of pressuring ABC to fire Kimmel.Shortly after midnight, he posted, "The joke I would like to make about the Kimmel situation is one I, apparently, can only text to close friends."
Jean Smart
Jean Smart said Kimmel's comments were not hate speech, but free speech.
Rich Fury/Getty Images
The actor Jean Smart, known for her role in the comedy-drama "Hacks," posted about the suspension on Instagram."I am horrified at the cancellation of Jimmy Kimmel Live," she said. "What Jimmy said was FREE speech, not hate speech.""People seem to only want to protect free speech when it suits THEIR agenda," Smart said. She added that she was sickened by Kirk's shooting.
Kathy Griffin
Kathy Griffin urged people to actively support Jimmy Kimmel.
Robin L Marshall/Getty Images
The comedian and actor Kathy Griffin took to Instagram to urge fans and fellow entertainers to rally behind Kimmel."Please, take it from me, it's very important to have Jimmy Kimmel's back right now," she wrote.Griffin called on people to "be vocal" and "be an ideological consumer," adding that "money is all their crowd cares about."Griffin has long been a staunch critic of Trump, and during his first term, she attracted widespread condemnation after posing with a mask depicting his severed head.
Sophia Bush
Sophia Bush warned that pulling Kimmel's show signaled a grave erosion of free speech in the US.
Kristina Bumphrey/Variety via Getty Images
The actor and activist Sophia Bush, best known for her role on "One Tree Hill," condemned the cancellation in a post on X.She wrote, "The First Amendment doesn't exist in America anymore.""Fascism is here and it's chilling," she added.
Christie Brinkley
Christie Brinkley said comedians like Jimmy Kimmel are vital to public life and urged protecting their First Amendment rights.
Raymond Hall/GC Images via Getty Images
The supermodel and actor Christie Brinkley, best known for her decadeslong career in fashion and film, posted an Instagram story expressing her support for Kimmel.She shared a photo of the late-night hosts John Oliver, Seth Meyers, Stephen Colbert, Jimmy Kimmel, and Jimmy Fallon, writing: "I Love these guys!"The laughter they provide us is as important as the air we breathe!" she said. "And they are taking another one of them off the air tonight!"Brinkley added: "We must protect their and our First Amendment rights!!!"
Rosie O'Donnell
Rosie O'Donnell condemned the cancellation as unacceptable, accusing Trump's administration and corporate executives of "bowing" to him.
MICHAEL TRAN/AFP via Getty Images
The comedian, actor, and former daytime talk show host Rosie O'Donnell shared a photo of Kimmel on Instagram alongside an expletive-filled caption in which she slammed the administration and corporate executives."This is unacceptable," she wrote, later adding, "America is no more."
Adam Carolla
Adam Carolla said he didn't like the government getting involved in Kimmel's case.
Michael Tullberg/Getty Images
Comedian, radio personality, and podcaster Adam Carolla spoke about Kimmel's suspension in an episode of his podcast that he posted on TikTok on Thursday."I don't like the government getting involved," he said in the TikTok."I've heard every side of the story, and in general, I just want people to speak, and the ratings will do the talking, and you can support them, or not support them," he said.He said he knew Kimmel personally and said he was a very good and generous person.
Bill Simmons
Bill Simmons spoke about Kimmel's suspension on a podcast episode.
Mike Windle/Getty Images for Vanity Fair
Bill Simmons, a sportswriter and podcaster, talked about Kimmel in a Thursday episode of his "The Bill Simmons Podcast." "We've been friends for 24 years, so you're probably not going to be shocked to find out that I am on Jimmy Kimmel's side with most stuff," Simmons said.Simmons said the suspension was not a result of cancel culture, but rather censorship.He said Disney should realize that it has to stand for something, and stand for the people who elevated the company."Once you start losing your faces, you just don't have a soul anymore," he said.
Recommended video
Hollywood
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account