Why Vanguard S&P 500 ETF Is One of the Best in Its Class | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Morningstar Metrics for Vanguard S&P 500 ETF
Vanguard S&P 500 ETF: Performance Highlights
Home
Funds
Why Vanguard S&P 500 ETF Is One of the Best in Its Class
Why Vanguard S&P 500 ETF Is One of the Best in Its Class
Razor-thin fees and broad exposure give large-cap stock investors a competitive edge.
Brendan McCann
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Microsoft Corp
(MSFT)
Vanguard S&P 500 ETF
(VOO)
Apple Inc
(AAPL)
Key Morningstar Metrics for Vanguard S&P 500 ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: GoldProcess Pillar: HighPeople Pillar: Above AverageParent Pillar: HighVanguard S&P 500 ETF VOO offers a well-diversified, market-cap-weighted portfolio of 500 of the largest US stocks. This exchange-traded fund accurately represents the large-cap opportunity set while charging rock-bottom fees, a recipe for success over the long run.The fund fully replicates the S&P 500, which selects 500 of the largest US stocks—roughly 80% of the US equity market. An index committee has discretion over selecting companies as long as they are profitable and easy to trade. While a committee-based approach may lack clarity, it adds flexibility to reduce unnecessary changes during reconstitution, taming transaction costs compared with more-rigid rules-based indexes.The end portfolio is well-diversified and accurately represents the US large-cap opportunity set. This allows Vanguard S&P 500 ETF to capitalize on its low fee and closely track the performance of the large-cap market. The bedrock of this ETF’s strategy is its market-cap weighting, which harnesses the market’s collective wisdom on the relative value of each holding with the added benefit of low turnover and associated trading costs. It’s a sensible approach because the market tends to do a good job pricing large-cap stocks. Large, highly traded markets tend to reflect new information quickly and are well-suited for indexing.When a few richly valued companies or sectors power most of the market’s gains, the ETF’s market-cap weighting may expose it to stock- or sector-level concentration risk. As of July 2025, the top 10 holdings made up the largest portion of the index (38%) in several decades, and the 35% allocation to technology stocks was the highest since the dot-com bubble. But this is not a fault in design. The S&P 500 simply reflects the market composition.A higher concentration in the top 10 holdings may be a concern for some investors, but there isn’t a clear relationship between index performance and market concentration. In addition, many of the largest companies, such as Apple AAPL and Microsoft MSFT, are diversified internally and don’t rely on a single product or service. In the long run, the ETF’s broad diversification, low turnover, and low fee outweigh these risks.SPY vs. VOO: Which S&P 500 ETF Should You Own?Vanguard S&P 500 ETF: Performance HighlightsThis ETF accurately represents the US large-cap opportunity set, allowing the fund to leverage its cost advantage. It outperformed its average peer in the large-blend Morningstar Category by 2.23 percentage points over the 10 years through August 2025. Outperforming by 2.23 percentage points annualized has given Vanguard S&P 500 ETF a massive performance advantage over its peers. That’s nearly 75 percentage points cumulatively over the past 10 years through August 2025, as shown below.The ETF’s performance closely follows the ups and downs of the US stock market since the fund is always fully invested. All else equal, this fund should outperform peers that hold cash during market rallies. Likewise, Vanguard S&P 500 ETF should lag similar peers when the market falls because it lacks a cash buffer.Because of the ETF’s bias toward the largest and the most established companies, it misses out when small-cap stocks outperform large-cap stocks, as they did in the fourth quarter of 2020. Likewise, when the S&P 500 becomes concentrated in a few large companies, Vanguard S&P 500 ETF can become top-heavy. This exposes the fund to US market risks should another dot-com-type bubble burst, during which the S&P 500 fell over 40% in the early 2000s. In the long run, Vanguard S&P 500 ETF’s razor-thin fee and minuscule cash holdings should lead to solid performance compared with its large-blend peers. Index funds tend to perform well in large, highly traded markets. This ETF is no exception.
The author or authors own shares in one or more securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
9 Top-Performing Large-Value Funds Funds from Invesco, Natixis, and BNY Mellon are among the best performers.
Gabe Alpert Sep 18, 2025
The 2 ETFs That Track Congressional Stock Trades These vehicles shed light on how Democratic and Republican members of Congress invest their money.
Zachary Evens Sep 18, 2025
Why We Highly Rate American Funds American Mutual A solid income-oriented approach.
Stephen Welch Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Brendan McCann Associate Analyst
More from Author
Brendan McCann is an associate manager research analyst for Morningstar.
Why Vanguard S&P 500 ETF Is One of the Best in Its Class
Brendan McCann Sep 16, 2025
This Vanguard ETF Is a Great S&P 500 Complement
Brendan McCann Sep 8, 2025
Bond ETFs See Record Inflows Ahead of Interest Rate Cuts
Brendan McCann Sep 4, 2025
Active ETFs Brought in Record $44.8 Billion in July
Brendan McCann Aug 5, 2025
This Invesco ETF Equal-Weights the S&P 500
Brendan McCann Aug 4, 2025
This iShares ETF Offers Broad Value
Brendan McCann Jul 31, 2025
This Vanguard Value ETF Is a Strong Choice
Brendan McCann Jul 17, 2025
International Stock ETFs Attract a Record $24.8 Billion in June
Brendan McCann Jul 3, 2025
BlackRock Model Portfolio Changes Drive ETF Flows in May
Brendan McCann Jun 4, 2025
Investors Piled $58 Billion Into US ETFs Despite April’s Volatility
Brendan McCann May 6, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility