Best Home Security Systems for 2025: Top Smart Hubs to Protect Your Home
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Security Services
Best Home Security Systems in 2025: Safeguard Your Home With These Top Options
Investing in a good home security system is essential for safeguarding your property and protecting your loved ones. We tested the top options. Here's what we recommend.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Written by
Ry Crist
Article updated on August 27, 2025 at 2:17 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking. Expertise Smart home technology | Wireless connectivity Credentials 10 years product testing experience with the CNET Home team
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Equipment and installation
How many devices do you need? What sections of your home absolutely require protection? Do you want to install them yourself or have a professional do it? Do you need support for specific platforms like Alexa or Google Assistant?
Monitoring and alerts
Do you need the ability to contact emergency services? Would you like a monitoring center to keep watch over your home and get alarm messages? How much are you willing to pay for these features?
Ongoing Costs
Do you want to pay for cloud video storage or extra features in addition to professional monitoring? What is your monthly limit for how much you would pay for a home security subscription?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Home security systems have come a long way. They've gone from standalone home security cameras to complete systems with advanced monitoring options. If you've been planning to improve your home security in 2025, there are plenty of options to choose from. Our Picks
Best overall home security camera system SimpliSafe
Jump to details
$143 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best buildable smart security system
Vivint Smart Home
Jump to details
See at Vivint
Jump to details
Best affordable home security system Arlo Home Security System 5-Piece
Jump to details
$220 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best home security system for smart homes Abode Wireless Smart Security Kit
Jump to details
$200 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best DIY home security system Ring Alarm 8-piece kit (2nd gen)
Jump to details
$249 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best professional home security system ADT Home Security with ADT Plus
Jump to details
See at ADT
Jump to details
50% off
SimpliSafe
Jump to details
See at SimpliSafe
Jump to details
Show 2 more
Featured Deal What is this?
50% off
SimpliSafe
Jump to details
See at SimpliSafe
Jump to details
HOME SECURITY DEALS OF THE WEEK
Ring Alarm 5-Piece Kit With Plug-In Outdoor Cam Plus:  $250 (save $50)
Ring Alarm 8-Piece Kit With Outdoor Cam Plus and Doorbell:  $400 (save $50)
Ring Alarm Pro 13-Piece Kit With Eero Wi-Fi 6 Router:  $400 (save $100)
Eufy Security 5-Piece Home Alarm Kit:  $94 (save $66) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Home Security Systems in 2025: Safeguard Your Home With These Top Options
What is the best overall home security system?
Best home security systems of 2025
Best overall home security camera system
Best buildable smart security system
Best affordable home security system
Best home security system for smart homes
Best DIY home security system
Best professional home security system
50% off
Home security systems compared
Factors to consider when choosing a home security system
How we test home security systems
What's new in home security systems?
Other home security systems we've tested
Recent updates
We recommend choosing a security system for several reasons -- chief among them, how easy it is to set up. You should also know that all of your door/window sensors, motion detectors and glass-break sensors will work together with your alarm and other components. Indoor and outdoor cameras are usually optional but recommended if you're among the 71% of US adults looking to prevent package theft -- or if you want more advanced AI guarding features.What is the best overall home security system?
SimpliSafe's entry sensors remain DIY-friendly during setup and testing. Tyler Lacoma/CNETWe've tested systems for more than 180 hours, including the latest kits and updates for 2025, and nothing beats SimpliSafe's starter kit as the top choice for the average homeowner. SimpliSafe's hardware packages start at $250 and go up to $734. However, we've observed that there are often deals that let you buy this security system for a discount. It's incredibly DIY friendly while also offering robust monitoring plans and sharp new AI features for those who want them. Anyone can install its compact sensors, including renters, thanks to the adhesive options.Our other options include kits for every kind of house. If you want a modular security kit you can easily build out over a couple of years, Vivint is your best choice. We also have an excellent self-install option with Ring Alarm -- which doesn't require a contract and has a relatively affordable subscription plan -- plus more picks for gifts, excellent existing smart home support and many other needs.Best home security systems of 2025
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
SimpliSafe kit on table. Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best overall home security camera system
SimpliSafe
8.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
Easy to install and operate for DIYers
Very customizable
Adhesive sensors for apartments
Competitive pricing for multiple packages
From self-monitoring to AI services, a lot of subscription options
Cons
Limited smart home integration, keeping you in the SimpliSafe ecosystem
Why I like it:We've tested the SimpliSafe systems several times and most recently gave their kit a review score of 8.5 out of 10, one of our highest ratings for a home security system and a perfect option for installing a system yourself. It offers a comprehensive set of features, including equipment like security cameras and a strong assortment of battery-powered motion detection sensors, all of which performed quite well in our tests. You can add everything from smoke detectors to panic buttons as add-ons, too. Devices are compact, easy to install and have adhesive options for avoiding damage to walls.Starter kits begin at about $250 with the typical discounts applied, or you can build a custom alarm system with the exact mix of devices you need. Self-monitoring plans start at $10 per month for basic camera support, but SimpliSafe adds a lot of interesting features for monitoring plans, which start at about $30 per month, including live guard watching and AI-powered alert systems to focus on strangers, providing a lot of options for every kind of user.Who is this for:DIY fans who want to handle all the details themselves but still want masterful options for professional monitoring, as well as renters looking for adhesive sensors.Who shouldn’t buy it:Anyone who wants a pro to take care of the installation.  ... Show more
Get it now
$143 at Amazon
See at SimpliSafe
Specs & Configurations
Installation
DIY installationsContract required
NoVoice assistant
Google Home/Nest, Amazon AlexaAdditional fees
Self monitoring starting at $10 per month, Guard monitoring starting at $30Service bundles
Multiple starter kits with different speciatiesBattery backup
Around 24 hours
Learn more
SimpliSafe review
Add to compare
Jared DiPane / CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Jared DiPane / CNET
Best buildable smart security system
Vivint Smart Home
7.7
/10
SCORE
Pros
Numerous third-party device integrations for other smart devices
Alexa and Google support
No contract required
Cons
High upfront charges
Difficult to decipher pricing without having to give your email address
Monitoring can be expensive starting at $30
Why I like it:Vivint gives you a super-polished experience with third-party device integrations, and it doesn't require a contract. The starter package includes only a touchscreen and a couple of sensors, but Vivint works well with voice assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant and supports an array of additional Vivint and third-party devices (see our full review for more).That's great news if you'd like to add a compatible smart garage door, video doorbell or security camera system, but on your terms and timing. You can also adjust your budget based on what you'd like to buy now and purchase later. Vivint is the only brand with this approach but it has one of the best offerings to begin with a starter kit and build from there.With monthly monitoring ranging from $30 to $45 a month, this system is more affordable than a subscription service like ADT and includes valuable extras like video storage. But these are some of the highest subscription costs on our list. It's becoming less common for security brands to charge so much for professional monitoring, but for these systems, if you want the pros to keep an eye on your home, you'll have to pay for it.Who is this for:Buyers who want to start with the basics and add a host of smart devices over time. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who want to avoid high subscription costs.
... Show more
Get it now
See at Vivint
Specs & Configurations
Installation
Professional installationContract required
NoVoice assistant
Google Home/Assistant, Amazon AlexaAdditional fees
Monitoring starting at $35 per monthService bundles
N/ABattery backup
Varies from 6 to 24 hours depending on system
Learn more
Vivint Smart Home review
Add to compare
Karen Freeman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Arlo's app is simple and intuitive to use. Karen Freeman/CNET
Best affordable home security system
Arlo Home Security System 5-Piece
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
8-in-1 sensors
Affordable starter kits available for $150 with discounts
Integration with Arlo cams and tags
Great app controls
No contract
Voice assistant support for Alexa and Google
Cons
Grows much more expensive if you want to add video or monitoring
Very little third-party or voice-assistant support
Why I like it:Arlo's system, which performed exceptionally in our tests, offers something different from most standard security kits: It uses an interesting type of all-in-one sensor that you can set to perform different tasks depending on where you want to put it. They can sense motion or when a door is opened, monitor temperature, check for leaks and more. With up to five in a package, you can recruit the system to perform a variety of home duties at prices lower than nearly any competitor. Arlo's plan is necessary if you want something like professional monitoring or 24/7 emergency response but you can still get a plenty of functionality free. It also works very well with devices like the Arlo Doorbell and Arlo's new fob for quickly disarming the system. Add an Arlo cam and you can choose an advanced subscription with AI that can now recognize fires, screams, gunshots, barking and more. Who is this for:This is an excellent kit for DIYers who want to save big while also having some very cool upgrades in the future if they want to add more.Who shouldn’t buy it:Fans of more traditional home security systems and those who want to integrate a lot of smart devices.  ... Show more
Get it now
$220 at Amazon
$220 at The Home Depot
$220 at Arlo
Specs & Configurations
Installation
DIYContract required
NoVoice assistant
N/AAdditional fees
Arlo professional monitoring starting at $30Service bundles
Can bundle with Arlo video doorbell or tagBattery backup
12 hours
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/3
Best home security system for smart homes
Abode Wireless Smart Security Kit
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
Apple Siri support, Excellent third-party integrations
$8 to $26 subscriptions aren't "must-have"
Cons
Starter kits are a little limited and you have to pay more than $200 for better options
Why I like it:Thanks to Abode’s frequent deals, you can find home starter kits for as low as $100, one of the cheapest options on the market. We suggest going up a step and picking the $199 smart security kit, which adds a motion sensor to the package and expands smart home compatibility to Apple Home/Siri as well as Alexa and Google Assistant. We know it’s not easy to find a home security system that works with the Apple Home app, especially at a low price, so Apple fans may be especially pleased.The tidy package is easy to manage once you’ve found a place for Abode’s block hub, and DIYers will appreciate the no-tools installation design (which also makes this a great pick for renters). Abode also has deeply impressive third-party compatibility, supporting integrations with Amazon Echos, Ecobee, Nest, Philips Hue, Yale and more. If you already have smart devices, there’s a good chance they’ll be supported; check out the full list here.Adding an $8 standard plan nets you AI object detection and more comprehensive alerts, while a $26 Pro plan provides professional monitoring and cellular backup. But those aren't must-have features for many users, so you can consider skipping the fees altogether.Who is this for:People who already have a lot of smart home devices and want to integrate as many as possible -- especially Apple users.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who want a lot of options on the basic starter kit without paying more money.  ... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Amazon
See at Abode
Specs & Configurations
Installation
DIYContract Required
NoVoice Assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Apple Home/SiriAdditional Fees
Professional monitoring starting at $25 per monthService Bundles
N/ABattery backup
Up to 12 hours
Learn more
Abode Wireless Smart Security Kit review
Add to compare
Julie Snyder
Photo Gallery 1/3
Julie Snyder
Best DIY home security system
Ring Alarm 8-piece kit (2nd gen)
9.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
DIY-friendly starter kit
Easy to add other Alexa and Ring devices
Intuitive app controls
Includes a Wi-Fi range extender to help solve connectivity issues
Cons
Not so useful outside the Amazon ecosystem of Alexa and Ring
Why I like it:Ring offers some home security packages for users who want to take everything into their own hands, from picking out add-ons to choosing just the right spot on the wall. This eight-piece starter kit provides four important sensors, a base station plus a keypad, a motion detector and a range extender for those worried about Wi-Fi. We also like the Pro version of this package, but the second-gen kit is a bit newer and doesn’t force you to use the built-in router (we prefer picking out our own routers).Amazon’s Ring devices include excellent Alexa support, and DIYers will like the largely intuitive management app (if you’ve set up any smart devices before, these app controls will come easily to you). In addition to direct controls and sensor notifications, users can also switch between home and away modes on the fly. If you decide to expand, almost any Ring product will be compatible, including their security cameras and video doorbells, so it’s easy to level up.Two final important notes about choosing Ring: First, in 2024, Ring officially changed its policy on allowing police to directly request user video footage. Now they listen to such requests only in case of a life-or-death emergency, similar to Google and other brands but a noted improvement from its previous stance.Second, while Ring is very DIY-friendly, professional monitoring does require the brand's top-tier subscription for $20 per month. That’s lower than some of our other picks but still pricier than a cloud storage plan would be.Who is this for:DIYers who are also big fans of Alexa and Ring products.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who prefer to use other platforms beyond Amazon brands like Alexa and Ring.  ... Show more
Get it now
$249 at Amazon
$150 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Installation
DIY installationContract Required
N/AVoice Assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/AssistantAdditional Fees
Professional monitoring and expanded cloud storage for $20Service Bundles
N/A, can bundle with Amazon devices like Echo ShowsBattery backup
Up to 24 hours
Learn more
Ring Alarm 8-piece kit (2nd gen) review
Add to compare
Kimanzi Constable / CNET Voices
Photo Gallery 1/6
Kimanzi Constable / CNET Voices
Best professional home security system
ADT Home Security with ADT Plus
Pros
Excellent Google Nest compatibility with Cams and Doorbells
New ADT+ app filled with customization features
New, more compact sensor designs
Cons
Clunky, expensive monitoring contracts often tallying more than $70 remain
ADT+ will be a lot to learn for those with no smart home experience
New app is sometimes buggy
Why I like it:ADT has again reinvented its security system offerings in 2024 with ADT Plus, bringing a new app (source of the ADT Plus name), revamped devices and an even larger focus on the closely intertwined Google Nest. The result is better than ADT has been in years, although the required contracts and extra-pricey monitoring remain. This is an option for those who like Google Nest or already have Google Nest devices (which will be compatible with the ADT system). While there are self-install options, ADT's long-term experience makes it one of the best brands for professional quotes and installation.The sensors on ADT's system are better than ever, and Nest integration allows for many new tricks like Trusted Neighbor entry time frames that can use facial recognition to automatically unlock doors. But the ADT Plus app offers a lot of settings and not-always-intuitive menus, so users new to home security will have a lot to learn.Who is this for:Homeowners who want a professional installation, fans of Google Nest products, and people who don't mind paying for a contract plan and learning a big new app.Who shouldn’t buy it:Buyers who want to stay away from high fees and prefer something simpler, people who don't like Google Nest at all.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at ADT
Specs & Configurations
Installation
Professional with some self-install optionsContract required
YesVoice assistant
Google Home/AssistantAdditional fees
Monthly professional monitoringService bundles
Bundles with Nest productsBattery backup
4 to 48 hours depending on the system
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
50% off
SimpliSafe
No one protects your whole home like SimpliSafe. Now, 24/7 live security agents and advanced AI-powered cameras combine to create a double layer of defense -- and help stop crime before it happens. SimpliSafe was named CNET’s best overall home security camera system, and right now you can get 50% off.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at SimpliSafe
Learn more
SimpliSafe review
Home security systems compared
Best home security systems: SimpliSafe (8-piece set)Vivint Smart HomeAbode Home Security SystemRing Alarm Pro System (2nd-gen)ADT Home Security with ADT+Arlo Home Security System 5-Piece System price Starting from $250$500$199$250Starting from $349 $300Monthly monitoring price $10-$30$30-$45$25$20$40+$30Starter equipment Base station, keypad, motion sensor, four entry sensors, one panic buttonHub, two door window sensors, a motion detector, a flood sensorSmart security hub, mini door/window sense, motion sensor, key fobEero Wi-Fi 6 mesh router, door-window sensors, motion detectors, a keypad, a siren and optional professional monitoring subscriptionsKeypad Hub, sensors, Nest cams/doorbells/hubs, will vary based on quoteKeypad, 5 8-in-1 sensorsContract required? NoNoNoNoYesNoSetup DIY installationProfessional installationDIY installationDIY installationProfessional installation with some self-install optionsDIY installationExtra features Customizable system, built-in Wi-Fi and cellular, integration with Amazon Alexa and Google AssistantCustomizable system, integration with many third-party devices, integration with Amazon Alexa, Google Home and Z-Wave devicesCustomizable system, cellular backup, integration devices from Sonos, Nest and more, integration with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and SiriCellular-powered backup Wi-Fi, network security monitoring, local processing, storage for all of your Ring devices and integration with Alexa's Guard Plus serviceIntegration with Google Nest devices and Google familiar face recognitionCompatible with Arlo cams, doorbells and tags, Review score 8.57.78.39Upcoming8.3
Factors to consider when choosing a home security system
SimpliSafe home security systems can be easily tailored to your needs. Just add or subtract hardware and equipment as you please.  CNETWhen choosing a home security system for your home, you may be tempted to start by deciding between a DIY setup or professionally installed systems with monitoring services. Remember to make your decision after considering the equipment, installation, monitoring options and other features you want. Here are some bits of information to keep in mind about these parameters when shopping around.Equipment choicesDo you just need to keep watch over your entryways? A good video doorbell for your front door and an outdoor camera covering the back may be all you need; easy to install and monitor yourself. If you want to keep closer tabs on your home inside and out with 24/7 monitoring and quick access to emergency response services, you'll want a more robust system. DIY and professional brands offer home security bundles with most, if not all, of the equipment you'd need to get started and the ability to add single devices as needed.Smart home and AIMost home security devices are compatible with Alexa and Google Home smart hubs, but if you prefer Apple HomeKit or another smart home ecosystem, you may have to do a bit more shopping and comparing to find a system compatible with your existing smart home devices. Don't fret over compatibility too much as Matter is making it easier to connect previously non-compatible devices (although it hasn't quite come for security cameras yet).Smart home features are also always changing, especially with AI. Just in the past two years, SimpliSafe has added AI face and movement detection to help its monitoring agents, ADT has added support for Nest's familiar face AI recognition features and Arlo has increased services to include AI detection of fires, barking, screaming and more. You'll have to pay a lot more for these features and consider your own privacy if you're interested in the cutting-edge upgrades.
Arlo's new Security Tag is a great fit for its super-compact home security system.  ArloInstallationKeep in mind all that equipment will need to be installed. While there isn't much to installing a security camera or even a wired video doorbell, whole-home systems can be a bit more demanding to install and set up. Some are DIY-friendly and use adhesive to position devices without leaving permanent marks but not all systems do this. If you'd rather leave that to an expert and have them walk you through how to use the system, a professional home security service may be the way to go.
Monitoring and alertsVirtually all home security systems allow for self-monitoring, likely via an app on your phone. They'll also send you push notifications when there's an event, such as when a package is delivered to your doorstep. Basic sensors can send alerts about what specific sensor was triggered or tampered with, while adding a camera allows for more complex recognition. You can customize these alerts to get only the information you want (such as only when a person is detected), while most will automatically ignore things like vehicles.
SimpliSafe remains a top DIY security system. Tyler Lacoma/CNETProfessional monitoring and emergency featuresConsider whether you want to be in charge of all the monitoring or if you'd like some support. Most systems allow you to add a professional monitoring plan, some even require it from the beginning. These services often cost more than $30 per month and sometimes much more if AI features are added.More advanced features, such as facial recognition, glass break sensors and communication with emergency services may not be available from all manufacturers and devices. Consider the level of monitoring you want, and who you want to do it, along with the emergency response options, when choosing a home security system.
ExpandabilityMost home security systems allow you to buy single sensors or compatible devices and add them, one at a time, whenever you want to upgrade or address a specific problem. But they go about this in very different ways. Some only allow you to purchase its own brand devices, while others are compatible with a variety of third-party smart home devices. Some have very limited add-on options, while others have many choices. No matter what you decide, we recommend checking out the add-on options on a security system website to see what potential upgrades will look like." that you can tap on the company's keypad to arm and disarm your security system." image-credit="Kangaroo" image-alt-text="Kangaroo keypad plus Roo key fob" image-filename="houston-in-context-square.jpg" image-target-url="" image-credit-url="" image-width="3355" image-height="2543" image-date-created="2021-07-01" image-do-not-crop="true" image-watermark="true" ng-block="{"id":"gthclwth4ijhls2","type":"image"}" edition="us"> Initial costsWe listed "cost" last for a reason. A complete home security system will likely cost you at least a couple of hundred bucks, so be prepared for that. There's the potential to spend a lot more on equipment or a lot less. Also, keep in mind that the size of the system greatly affects the cost. Starter systems like many we listed here typically cost between $150 and $300, and allow you to add other compatible devices over time. Larger systems with 10 devices or more will cost at least several hundred dollars and can go up to $1,000 or more, depending on the tech that's included.Ongoing costsOngoing costs can carry a bit more weight when choosing the best security system. Expect ongoing monthly fees from a professional service and possibly a contract to lock you into those fees for a year or two (although we favored picks without a required contract). Signing a contract may not be ideal, but it may also come with free equipment or installation and lower upfront costs. If you're comfortable with self-monitoring, DIY systems may not come with any ongoing costs. Monthly subscriptions (without a contract) for cloud storage, enhanced features and possibly even professional monitoring are typically an option with DIY systems, often for lower monthly fees than professional services.
You'll be alerted every time this door is opened. Karen Freeman/CNETPrivacy and securityAlways look for a brand that's going to keep your data safe and has a good track record of security, encryption and protection against data breaches. That's not always easy -- many security companies have had issues in the past with breaches, privacy violations or even employees spying through home security cameras. We look at a company's current practices, track record and how they've been improving in the past few years when making recommendations. SimpliSafe is consistently one of the standout performers in security, which is one reason they earned a top spot on our list. While Ring has had missteps in the past, it's improved in recent years and has even retracted its policy on providing police with video footage, so we feel comfortable recommending Ring at this time.
How we test home security systems
ADT+ has two window sensors and the premium version is much better. Tyler Lacoma/CNETHands-on testing is core to our evaluations of any home security products. In short, when it comes to the best home security systems, we pay special attention to the user experience, the promised features, reliability and overall value, along with a few other elements. We do the testing in a real home environment over at least a full week. Installation process (and uninstallation)In our tests we work with local professionals to get the professional installation experience, and tackle DIY installations ourselves. When a system offers both, we typically try to get some self-install products ourselves to experiment with along with the DIY installation. We look for ease of use, installation methods and how well sensors fit on sometimes-cramped doors or windows, among other factors. We also look at how easy sensors are to uninstall. What if you want to move one, take one off for a while, or dismantle the whole system? So we check these factors, as well as disconnection options on the app.
The ADT+ app has to do a lot but its clean style and home screen summaries certainly help. Tyler Lacoma/CNETSensor performance These tests include testing sensors at common access points, seeing how systems arm and disarm and finding out how voice controls and smart device integration work with the app. Along the way, we keep a careful eye on durability and design quality so we avoid recommending any shoddy products.Alerts, triggers and reliabilityOnce sensors are set up, we mess with them. We arm and disarm the system, test movement for motion sensors and see how easily access sensors pick up on vibration or tampering, depending on what they're rated to do. Along the way we watch for any issues with delayed sensor alerts and high latency, sensors that don't respond as they should and sensors that are over-responsive. When possible, we also take sensors for a little trip to make sure they work at acceptable distances (30 yards, etc.).
ADT+ and Google Home will send similar notifications so you may need to cut down on some alerts. Tyler Lacoma/CNETApp experiencesHome security system apps should be easy to use and fairly intuitive. This can be a struggle, because these apps tend to be particularly complicated and filled with new settings and features to learn. We run through all of them and see how effective it is to customize arm/disarm times, grace periods, new devices, geofencing, home routines and so much more. We test alert customized, disconnect options and how easy it is to shut down your service through the app, too.Smart home integrationsIf home security systems work with third-party devices, we get some for testing and see how easy it is to set them up and tie third-party devices to routines. We watch for bugs and disconnect issues, which can be common in these situations. To read more about our review process, check out our in-depth article on how we test home security systems and services. What's new in home security systems?
The Ring Alarm Pro offers a slew of excellent features -- and we tested every one of them.  Hobie Crase/CNETThree trends in particular interest us in the latest home security developments:Continuing Matter support: As Matter and Thread continue to spread through the smart home, more and more security systems are adopting the new standards, which improve security and allow for more flexible control of systems. It’s a slow process, partly because these brands have their own platforms for system management and partly because Matter has taken a long time to release protocols for key parts of home security like video cameras. But it’s coming and Matter support is now something people should be looking for in home security systems.More face recognition: From SimpliSafe to Google Nest and ADT’s Trusted Neighbor, more security systems are adopting face recognition as a way to manage access. That means that users can add a profile of faces and let video doorbells or home cameras recognize faces and respond accordingly -- through customized alerts or by unlocking a smart lock for certain people. Privacy concerns remain about using face profiles, especially outside of your family members, but this technology is here to stay and expanding.New integrations and new systems: Long-term brands have begun reviving their product lines with sleeker, faster products. ADT, for example, has released ADT+ with a new platform and product line, sporting more integrations with Google Nest devices than ever before. SimpliSafe has launched a new guard program that takes more advantage of human and face recognition when using professional monitoring. Brands that aren’t launching new versions of their systems are in danger of falling behind the times. Other home security systems we've tested
Besides the systems above, we've tested many of the top competitors. Here are the more recent options that didn't make our list. Abode Iota: Iota's all-in-one approach just wasn't as attractive to us as the whole security system. You may as well get an advanced security camera instead of this model.
Frontpoint: Frontpoint's system is reliable, and its hardware is reasonably priced, but its $45 monthly monitoring fee is too expensive.Kangaroo: Kangaroo is incredibly affordable but we found its video doorbell to be especially poor and the system design has started to feel very dated. Cove: Cove Home Security, despite reasonable hardware prices, fell to an overly restrictive subscription model that doesn't allow for self-monitoring or app access without significant monthly fees.ADT: ADT's older system, before ADT+, is inferior in nearly every way to the advances ADT+ and the latest system have made including self-install options, a superior app and somewhat more lucid pricing. We expect the older kits to be discontinued. Ring Alarm Pro: The Pro version of Ring's sytem includes an Eero router, which is nice if you don't already have a Wi-Fi 6 router but most homes already have routers, and if you want to upgrade it's much smarter to get a standalone router that's exactly what you want rather than one that's bundled with a home security system. Wyze Home Security System Sense v2
(Currently unavailable): As for Wyze, we appreciate its excellent budget home security offerings, but we're holding off on recommending it at this time. Wyze has been struggling with frequent security vulnerabilities in recent years, a problem it doesn't seem to have under control. If we see signs that Wyze is making strides in privacy and security, we'll consider its newest systems for our list.
Home security system FAQs
Do I have to sign a contract for home security?
Contracts are sometimes required for professional home monitoring or to qualify for free equipment, so providers like ADT, Vivint and Xfinity may include one. But if you pay upfront, you can usually avoid contracts -- and companies like Ring, SimpliSafe and Wyze offer DIY home security solutions that never require them.
What's the best home security camera system for your home?
Arlo and Nest cameras are our top picks for the best home security cameras, but the best one for your home depends on your needs. Be sure to consider price, Wi-Fi connectivity, indoor/outdoor functionality and compatibility with other smart home devices and security services when choosing.
How do I set up a home security system?
Some home security systems include professional installation, so the company sets everything up for you. Others, especially DIY options, require self-installation -- but they typically come with clear instructions and are easy to set up. In most cases, you just place or mount the devices where you want them, then connect them to Wi-Fi and any compatible smart home devices through an app.
What's the difference between a wired and wireless alarm system?
In a home security context, there are two ways to look at "wired" vs. "wireless." The first is power; home security systems require electricity to operate. In that context, a wired system would be one with devices that plug into power and rely on your home's electricity. A fair number of current-gen systems use wireless, battery-powered sensors and battery backups for the base stations that'll keep the setup running if the power goes out. You can think of those systems as "wireless" as far as electricity is concerned.There's a second way to look at wired vs. wireless. It concerns connectivity. Every home security system needs to be able to notify you when there's a problem and alert the authorities when there's an emergency. It used to be that systems would notify you with the sound of the alarm and contact authorities via a wired connection to your phone line. Now, most current-gen systems can also notify users of issues with a push alert on their phones. Some will use an internet connection to contact professionals during an emergency.Even then, we'd still consider the system "wired" if you can stop it from operating by cutting your home's internet signal. That's why many systems include built-in cellular connectivity as a backup. Even if the Wi-Fi goes out (or if a tech-savvy intruder disables it), a system like that still will be able to notify you and the authorities of an emergency by way of that cellular connection. Systems like those are "wireless" in the connectivity sense, and if they double down with a battery backup as well, then they're as wireless as home security gets.
Can I choose an all-in-one home security device instead of a whole system?
Some security systems offer all-in-one devices that are meant to be placed in a central location where they can watch everything, although we hesitate to recommend them compared to a whole security system. First, security cameras have come a long way (including two-way audio, motion sensors, audio detection, and smart alerts), so even advanced standalone devices
offer little that a new security camera doesn’t have. You may as well get a home security camera that’s compatible with your current system and has the benefits of both.Second, all-in-one devices have motion detectors but they’re very poor at monitoring access points like doors or windows, which is where home security systems really shine. We will give a nod to
that detects a whole assortment of household issues, which could save you some money if you're using an Arlo system.
Which is better: SimpliSafe vs. Ring?
SimpliSafe and Ring are both good options for home security. If you're looking to get something with good Alexa compatibility that's affordable, you'll likely be most interested in Ring. However, if you're more interested in something that's more all-encompassing and have privacy concerns, SimpliSafe is a better pick for you.
Do home security systems work without Wi-Fi?
Some home security systems still offer wired options, although this is increasingly an outdated and hard-to-find solution. Instead, modern systems can use a cellular backup to switch to a cell signal when Wi-Fi goes down. This will require a specific subscription tier to enable, so you'll have to pay for it.
Can I install a security system if I rent?
You may be able to, especially with very simple systems that have adhesive mounts. But check your lease and call your property management company for any details.
Recent updates
Winter 2024/2025 updates: After a very competent testing phase we added ADT+ as our new professional system suggestion, and gave Arlo's compact, all-in-one option a more prominent position because it can fit so many needs.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Also written by
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.