Ebisugaoka Walkthrough - Silent Hill f Guide - IGNFocus ResetSkip to contentSilent Hill f GuideStart tracking progressCreate a free account or Log in.Find in guideTask SearchChecklistsGame InfoTable of ContentsWalkthroughWalkthroughEbisugaoka WalkthroughShrine Path WalkthroughEbisugaoka Part 2 WalkthroughCorridors WalkthroughEbisugaoka Part 3 WalkthroughEbisugaoka Middle School WalkthroughWorship Hall WalkthroughEbisugaoka Part 4 WalkthroughMain Hall WalkthroughEbisugaoka Part 5 WalkthroughShimizu Residence WalkthroughTreasure Hall WalkthroughEbisugaoka Part 6 WalkthroughDark Shrine Finale WalkthroughTable of ContentsSilent Hill f GuideWalkthroughEndings GuidePuzzle GuideEma LocationsEditions and Pre-Order BonusesPC System RequirementsAbout Silent Hill f's Guide TeamFind in guideGuideChecklistsTask SearchTask Search Checklists Guides Markers VideosSort and FilterNo ResultsChecklists New ChecklistAll ListsMy ChecklistsAllAll ListsMy ChecklistsHow creative can you get with your first free checklist?Create a free accountEbisugaoka WalkthroughSilent Hill f begins with a Japanese teenager, Hinako, leaving her home in Ebisugaoka after a fight with her parents. In this walkthrough, we'll explore the starting point of Ebisugaoka and include information on where to find Documents, Collectibles, and Key items.
A Note on SettingsThe following settings were recommended for the first playthrough: Story for the action and Hard for the traditional Silent Hill puzzle experience. As such, I've created a walkthrough that reflects these settings, so please note that if you're playing on different settings, some things may differ for you.
Jump to these walkthrough sections: Head Down the Mountain Head to the Chizuruya General Store Find a Way Back To the Chizuruya General Store Investigate the House Return to Chizuruya General Store Find Shu and RinkoHead Down the MountainAs you take control of Hinako, the first objective will be to head down the mountain. You'll exit the Shimizu residence, and the path will immediately split off into two directions.
Take the path left (going northeast) first. This will take you up to a slope, with a small building that sits overlooking Hinako's house.
Go over to the small table situated just outside the building and pick up the document, Article: Serious Issues in Ebisugaoka.Article: Serious Issues in Ebisugaoka 1While you're here, you might as well continue up the path to the north. You can see from the house that it's fenced off, but you can interact with it. The sign will tell you that entry to the mountain is prohibited, but it's a good idea to interact with it anyway. This is because Hinako will automatically mark the map of Ebisugaoka with a big red X for any blocked paths.
Marking the MapThroughout your travels, you'll want to interact with as much as possible, and have Hinako show you blocked paths, doors that can be unlocked, and points of interest. These can change throughout your playthrough, so having notes on the map will be a huge help.
Retrace your steps and begin heading down the mountain path back to Hinako's house. Take the winding road to the west and toward the town. Just past Hinako's, you'll come to a bend, where you can stop and admire the view. Again, by allowing Hinako to overlook Ebisugaoka, she'll update your map, revealing more of the town.
It's now time to be nosy and go snooping around Hinako's neighbours' houses. Continue along that winding path and stop by the first house on the right.
You'll find another collectible document on the plant stand in front of the house, by the door, which is the Local Doctor's Note.
Local Doctor's Note 1There's nothing to collect from the rest of the houses, so carry on down the mountain until the path begins to curve around to the east.
As you approach the shrine ahead, Hinako will suggest that she prays. The shrine that you see is a Hokora, and for now, this is where you can Record or Change Costume. Recording will let you save your game.
Each time you find a Hokora, it will also be marked on your map.
Save SlotsWondering how many save slots there are? There are 10 Saves Slots to make use of and 3 Autosave Slots.
The path splits off again here just before the Hokora, but heading right is a blocked path. Instead, continue west (left of the Hokora). Along this road, there will be a house on the right, immediately after the Hokora.
Explore the back of the house to find two more interactables. One is a beer bottle, and another is a woman's fashion magazine that says, "A woman is only complete when she's loved. Featuring the latest fashion for young women so pure, they even make flowers blush." Return to the path. Side note for those who may have wandered into the garden of this house: It doesn't matter if you go down there; there's nothing to collect, but both paths will lead to the same place anyway.
Make your way towards the larger house on the map by itself, in the west. Just before you get there, take the small pathway that's just to the north of it. This will lead you to a shrine, which will subsequently be marked on your map. These are Oinari-sama or Inari-sama shrines, and will be an important symbol you see through your Silent Hill f journey.
The isolated house in the west is locked, and there's nothing to collect behind it. So, continue southwest, where Hinako will start to wonder where everyone is.
Head to the Chizuruya General StoreThis will trigger an objective change, and the map of Ebisugaoka will immediately expand. You'll now be able to see a big red circle marked on the map, showing the location of the Chizuruya General Store in the southwest.
As you head down the slope more, take note of the house with the red postbox on the left. Make your way over here, and you'll find another document on the floor by it. This is another Article: Serious Issues in Ebisugaoka. Article: Serious Issues in Ebisugaoka 2There's not much to do here, apart from head south, toward the blue truck. As you approach, it's clear that someone's had quite a bad time.
But more importantly, the truck is blocking your path, and so it will force you to head east.
Head down the alleyway and toward the light that will begin to flicker as you approach the shortcut that Hinako mentioned. I'm sure that's not an ominous sign at all.
Turn right (south) near the light, squeeze through the gap between the walls, and shimmy along. The good news is, the place isn't deserted, as you start to overhear a conversation. The bad news is, there is a discussion of curses and someone dying.
As you exit the small space, you'll now need to head west and go along the alleyway. Follow this down to the south until you reach Sakuko's house.
After the cutscene plays out between the two friends, head west along the alleyway, where the path goes off to the left and right again.
To the right, you'll just be on the other side of the blocked truck, and if you approach it, Hinako will wonder where the driver went.
So, go left (south) instead and immediately look for the notice board on your left. You'll find a missing persons report for a Suzutani Mayumi here and a brief description of what she was last seen wearing.
Continue, and you'll be able to see a barricade in the street up ahead.
To the right, heading south, is where you can reach the Chizuruya General Store. As you approach the Chizuruya General Store. You'll see someone up ahead, sitting outside on a bench, next to a red post box.
This is Shu, Hinako's best friend. Make your way toward him and let the conversation play out. While Hinako speaks to her friends, it's clear that something is very wrong. Hinako doesn't have much time to process what's happening in front of her before you'll be forced to run away from a Fog Monster.
Escape the Fog Monster⚠️Trophy Hunter Alert⚠️Throughout the story, there are multiple trophies you can unlock, and some are easily missable. We don't want you to miss them, but we also don't want to spoil the experience. To combat this and still provide you with a full walkthrough experience, I'll be flagging missable trophies for you at the appropriate moments. But I'll place them behind a Spoiler Tag when needed, so the choice is up to you whether you look or not!
If you can run away from the Fog Monster here without getting hit, you can earn the Like a Fleeing Hare achievement.
Like a Fleeing HareTo avoid being hit, stay away from patches on the floor and on the walls that look like splodges of red mist with tentacles coming out of them. Being grabbed by these tentacles during the cutscenes in this chase will not impact the ability to get the achievement.
You'll first start running east away from the Fog Monster, along the main road away from the General Store. During this chase sequence, the camera will pan so that Hinako is running toward you.
The perspective will change as you start heading south, with the camera behind Hinako as normal. Thankfully, the path is fairly linear.
If you head the wrong way, you'll be quickly blocked off, forcing you to jump over a fence, duck underneath sheet metal, and ultimately end up at what seems like a dead end. Just when it seems like all hope is lost, a ladder will appear, and Hinako will scramble onto the roof and find safety.
After escaping the Fog Monster, you’ll get a Note from Shu. During the conversation outside of the store, we saw him give her a box of something, which turned out to be painkillers, known as Red Capsules.
Note from ShuThis unlocks the Capsule Case, which is a key item and can be equipped in your hotbar. You'll be given Red Capsules for now, which can be used to restore your Health and Max Sanity after that horrifying experience.
KEY ITEM COLLECTED
Capsule CaseYou've now been forced into the southeast of Ebisugaoka. Go down the stairs and into the foggy streets, heading southwest.
As you walk along the river, look to the right to find a Bandage sitting on the wall. This can be used to restore your Health only.
Follow the path along the river and cross the bridge over to the south.
Find a Way Back To the Chizuruya General StoreWhile Hinako wonders where she is and exclaims that she needs to get back to Sakuko, you have no choice but to continue south through the alleyway. As you zigzag west and then south again, you'll come to a ladder.
There's a path that goes off to the left, which you should take first, though. This will bring you to the back of the building, where you can find more Red Capsules on a propane tank. Now climb the ladder. At the top, turn left, and you'll see a small wall you can vault over.
You'll now be heading east. Continue along the path until you reach the small gap between the houses on the right.
Squeeze through here and shimmy to the other side. If you go left (east) on the other side, you'll reach a dead end, so follow the misty alleyway on the right instead. As you head further west, you'll soon realise you're not alone.
Avoid the Monsters and Move AheadA mutilated and contorted doll-like monster will emerge from the alleyway. With no weapon for Hinako to use, this is where you'll learn to Dodge. For now, this is all you can do to avoid combat. If you time your dodge right, time will slow down, and you'll recover your Stamina.
Lock In and OnThough it's not explained yet, you can lock onto enemies from the get go, which makes it easier to keep focused on them as you dodge. You can do this by pressing R3/RS.Lure the doll-like enemy into the wider area you just walked through, and dodge. Move around her and continue onwards.
She will keep following you, but as you walk down the stairs, you can duck into the shelter on the right to find cover. Enemies will stop stalking you if you manage to get out of their line of sight.
Leave cover once it feels safe to do so and make your way down the stairs, heading east, and then along the water. Cross the second bridge on the right, and into the little area to pick up some additional Red Capsules from a small table.
Return to the walkway and head east, then take the next bridge across to the right to continue along the path. It can start to feel quite maze-like at this point, but we'll talk you through everything available.
Cross over the first bridge on your left, so you'll be heading back toward the north.
Go to the wall and turn left to find a light that shows you a small alleyway. Squeeze underneath the structure, and head downstairs into the building.
On the table that's covered by a sheet, you'll find a Yokan. This can be used to restore Health or as an offering at a Hokora to receive Faith.
You may also hear crackling as you step down into the room. Behind the table and white sheet, you'll find a Radio, which you can interact with.
Go back up the stairs and underneath the structure. On the opposite side of the water, you'll see a light. You can climb this ledge, but for now, let's keep exploring to the left (east) and go up the stairs.
Follow the path until you can walk across a plank that will take you to the opposite side of the waterway. Head underneath the bridge and east still, then take the plank up on the left to the building.
Step inside and explore the table on the right. You'll find two more items to interact with. One is Red Capsules, which you can collect, and another is a collectible document, another Local Doctor's Note.
Local Doctor's Note 2Head back west and return to the ledge with the light, where you'll now be greeted by another monster. Lure her away from the ledge, so you can jump up it, and I hate to break it to you, but she can climb.
Take the stairs on the left and immediately go right. Do not go left; otherwise, you'll just trap yourself in a dead end. Once you've turned right at the top of the stairs, dash into the area on the right to open up the wooden crate on the floor, and pick up more Red Capsules.Now go south along the main path until you reach a house. You'll stop being stalked at this time, but there's only one way to go, and that's inside.
Investigate the HouseOpen the door that's already slightly open and go straight ahead into the dining room. Turn right and search the drawers for a Bandage, then collect the Red Capsules from the table.
Go back toward the door where you entered, and then turn left to head upstairs. The single door in the south can't be opened, but the double doors in the north can. Step inside and open the drawers opposite the door to get a Yokan. Then turn left and go over to the table on the opposite side of the room to pick up Red Capsules.
Once you've done this, turn left again and take a look at the blood trail that goes from the window. It leads to an object on the floor that you can interact with.
You'll need to pick it up and examine it to see that it's a horrible, bloodied mask. By doing this, you'll automatically pull a Bloody Key out of it.
KEY ITEM COLLECTED
Bloody KeyExit the room, and of course, the single door has been kicked down by one of the doll-like creatures. Either lure it into the double room or downstairs (I'd recommend this option to give you more space and time). Run into the now-open room, and the first thing you'll want to do is run for the door in here.
When you interact with it, you'll automatically use the Bloody Key. Don't go outside yet, but look to the right, and pick up the Back Door Keys from the stand.
KEY ITEM COLLECTED
Back Door Keys
Run downstairs and back into the dining room. Open the double doors on the opposite side of the room, and then the back door, which will use up the Back Door Keys.
Quickly climb down the ladder. On the left, you can collect an Omamori [Whale]. This is an item you can equip that will stop you from being interrupted by normal attacks when using healing items.
COLLECTIBLE FOUND
Omamori [Whale]Run back up the room, and through the door you opened using the Bloody Key.
Turn immediately left and vault over the railing onto the rooftops. Walk along the rooftop, then use the ladder at the end to climb down into the alleyway.
Return to Chizuruya General Store While Avoiding the MonstersYou'll now be going southwest and trying to make your way back up to the Chizuruya General Store in the north. Follow the narrow alleyway you just dropped into and climb down when you reach the end of it.
Before heading left, go straight ahead past the water tap, and there are more Red Capsules for you to collect next to the stairs. Once you've got them, continue north, and if you thought things couldn’t get worse, it turns out those monsters can also pole vault.
Now facing another monster in a narrow alleyway, you’ll need to back up and dodge out of its way to continue on your journey. You’ll want to head straight up and take the path heading left.
Cross over the bridge, and quickly go left again. Head for the end of the path and then start to go up the stairs. You’ll find an Antique Comb on a wall to the left, just before the stairs. At the top, you’ll find another Hokora.
If you’ve been following this walkthrough, you’ll have earned a few items that can be exchanged for Faith at the Hokora.
If you have the action difficulty set to Story, you won't need to worry about using these items to restore Sanity, as both Health and Sanity will automatically be restored at Hokoras. You can exchange the items for Faith, which will enable you to obtain more Omamori.
At this stage, the options at the Hokora will become:
Enshrine - Offer items in exchange for Faith
Draw Omamori - Received a random Omamori
Change Costume
Bonuses - Claim any special items and pre-order bonuses here. Pre-Order BonusIf you pre-ordered Silent Hill f, this is where you'll be able to get the Omamori [Peony] and the item pack that contains the Shriveled Abura-age, Divine Water, and First Aid Kit.Omamori [Peony]Go back down the stairs you came from just now. The monster will now be gone, so you can backtrack a little bit and explore.
At the bottom of the stairs, go left, and all the way to the end of the walkway. Cross the makeshift bridge over to the right and open the basket at the shrine to get a Bandage.
Head back to the Hokora, and along the alleyway to the right of it. Follow this around and down the stairs, then pass underneath the covering between the buildings, continuing north. Walk to the end of the courtyard, and you’ll be automatically directed to the stairs on the left.
As you’re approached by another monster, Hinako finds a Steel Pipe for herself, and it’s time to launch into some combat.
You can perform Light Attacks using R1/RB, which is a quick attack that doesn’t do much damage.
R2/RT is your heavy attack, which is, of course, much more powerful, but also slower.
It also has a higher chance to stun enemies, and enemies are more vulnerable when stunned, meaning they take more damage.Dodge to get behind it, then follow up with some light attacks. If you’re not being attacked and have enough stamina, a heavy attack is a good follow-up here. Y
ou'll know if the doll-like creatures are stunned, as they'll bend over. When this happens, save your stamina for heavy attacks that will put them down for good.
With the area clear and Hinako now able to defend herself, head for the stairs and collect the Bandage on the right just before them.
Find Shu and RinkoYou’ll now be snaking your way from west to east as you head north back to the shop. Armed with your steel pipe, continue onwards. You’ll be faced with another foe, and the tutorial on how to counter enemy attacks.
The visual hint you'll be looking for is when it seems like there's a flash and additional outlines around the enemy. When this happens, perform a Heavy Attack. If you're struggling with identifying when the visual hint appears, you can focus on L2/LT. This will make the clue last longer.
If there is no visual hint, you cannot counter. If you’re attacking or dodging, no hints will appear either. Follow the path up, then cross the bridge to the left. Go left again on the other side of the water, and head up the stairs. At the top, you’ll find a small path off to the northwest, which is blocked, and one going northeast.
Follow the one to the northeast, and grab the Toolkit that’s on a ledge next to the stairs.
Toolkits can be used to repair weapons, restoring their durability. To see your weapon's durability, look for the moon icon in the bottom left corner. A fully durable weapon will have a yellow moon. The bar will deplete and you'll see it turn grey as the weapon heads toward breaking. This will eventually turn red and Hinako will tell you that she needs to get a new weapon, when it's about to break.Continue on, and you’ll hear a man shouting, who Hinako assumes is Shu. There’s a small alleyway to the left, before the roof that creates an archway. Go down here and to the back of the house to find a wooden box. Open this to get a Ramune, which restores Max Sanity and can be used as an Offering.
Return to the path and continue north, and cross the bridge. Before going up the stairs to the left, go toward the building slightly to the right and pick up the Yokan from the table.
Now go up the stairs and turn right. Another enemy will appear, so beat this or avoid it, and continue onward.
Open the wooden box on the right just before the path goes off to the left, and pick up another Ramune.
Keep following the path to the left and go up the stairs, where you’ll come to a Hokora. Just before going over to this, look to the immediate right.
Near the Good Drink vending machines, you can find more Red Capsules. Use the Hokora, and pick up the Steel Pipe next to it for an additional weapon.
Go right, toward the red flowers, and you’ll be back at the bench you visited earlier outside the store.
Defeat the MonstersAfter Hinako has placed her friend inside the shop, you’ll need to defeat an onslaught of monsters. In Story mode, this is just three of them, so put all of your combat skills that you've picked up in the alleyways to the test.
With the final doll-like creature defeated, the fog will start to creep in, and Hinako will pass out.
The Baby Bird Takes Her First StepsEbisugaokaUp Next: Shrine Path WalkthroughPreviousWalkthroughNextShrine Path WalkthroughTop Guide SectionsWalkthroughEndings GuidePuzzle GuideEma LocationsWas this guide helpful?Leave feedbackIn This GuideSilent Hill fNeobards EntertainmentSep 25, 2025Learn moreGo to commentsReviews•Editor Columns•News•Guides•Upcoming Sales Events•How to Watch Guides•Board Game Reviews•GTA 5 Cheats•Best Streaming Bundles•IGN Store•Top Deals•Contact Us•IGN YouTube•HowLongToBeat•IGN TikTok•IGN Twitter•Map Genie•Eurogamer•Rock Paper Shotgun•VG247•Maxroll•Privacy Policy•Terms of Use