The best digital notebooks of 2025: I tested notebooks from almost every price point | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: August 27, 2025 at 1:13 PM PDT
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
Updated on: August 27, 2025 at 1:13 PM PDT
The best digital notebooks you can buy: Digitize your notes with these expert-tested picks
I tested the the best digital notebooks to see which ones actually make it easier to capture ideas without paper clutter.
Written by
Allison Murray, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Reviewed by
Allison Jewell
ZDNET experts put every product through rigorous testing and research to curate the best options for you. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Back-to-school season always makes me rethink how I organize my thoughts. A digital notebook brings the feel of paper, without all the mess. It works for setting goals and jotting down ideas, and is great for sketching doodles as well. And with a digital backup for notes from important meetings and classes, it's easier than ever to stay on top of homework and projects.My top pick is the Boox Note Air 4 C. It nails that balance with paper-like writing feel, transcription tools, and portability. The Kindle Scribe also impressed me with its included pen and long battery life. Microsoft Suite compatibility is another great feature. ZDNET Recommends Boox Note Air 4 C | Best smart notebook overall
Best smart notebook overall
Boox Note Air 4 C
View now View at Amazon Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook | Best budget smart notebook
Best budget smart notebook
Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook
View now View at Amazon Kindle Scribe | Best smart notebook for reading
Best smart notebook for reading
Kindle Scribe
View now View at Amazon Rocketbook Core | Best portable smart notebook
Best portable smart notebook
Rocketbook Core
View now View at Amazon Moleskine Pen+ Smart Writing Set | Best stylish smart notebook
Best stylish smart notebook
Moleskine Pen+ Smart Writing Set
View now View at Amazon
reMarkable 2 | Best smart notebook splurge
Best smart notebook splurge
reMarkable 2
View now View at Amazon
Show more (1 item)
Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
What is the best digital notebook right now? To help you decide which smart notebooks are worth the investment, we tested and researched the best ones on the market. We considered the device's overall feel, storage capabilities and options, special features, and price. Based on our hands-on experience, our pick for the best smart notebook overall is the Boox Note Air 4 C thanks to its notetaking and productivity features and smooth color display. We also included notebooks from brands like Kindle, Rocketbook, and other brands that ZDNET staff use and recommend. Also: Best Windows tablet in 2025
Sort by
All
The best smart notebooks of 2025 Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Walmart Why we like it: Based on ZDNET's hands-on experience with the Boox Note Air 4 C, it is the best smart notebook. While it doesn't have as crisp a color display as a traditional tablet like an iPad, this tablet's purpose is for notetaking, and it does an excellent job. It has all the best features of the best apps, like templates, audio recording, color-coding, inserting links and attachments to notes, and more. Plus, built-in artificial intelligence allows for text recognition, shape perfection, and a strikethrough erase feature that makes erasing much easier.Some of its standout features enhance your productivity, like the split screen feature that allows you to switch between two different apps, so you can take notes on one side while reading an article on the other. Review: Boox Note Air 4 CWho it's for: In addition, if you need to use this tablet for school or work, you can easily send files to the tablet from your computer or smartphone using BOOXdrop. It takes mere seconds, and you can easily annotate PDFs and other Word documents. One Reddit user noted that the tablet is outstanding in terms of PDF files.Who should look elsewhere: This Boox tablet is not cheap. In fact, it's a lot pricer than the cheapest iPad at $530. Those who are on a budget should probably steer clear, as there are options that are cheaper and will do the job just as good, if not better. Plus, the included pen is very bulky and is hard to keep fastened to the tablet. Boox Note Air 4 C tech specs: Colors: Black | Storage: 64GB | Display: 10.3-inch Kaleido 3 display, 1240 x 930 (150 PPI) for color and 2480 x 1860 (300 PPI) for black and white | Connectivity: Wi-Fi + BT 5.1
Pros
Pen-to-paper writing experience
Excellent note-taking features and templates
BOOXdrop to share files
Cons
Screen can lag when browsing web or watching videos
Boox Note Air 4 C Best smart notebook overall
Why we like it: Based on ZDNET's hands-on experience with the Boox Note Air 4 C, it is the best smart notebook. While it doesn't have as crisp a color display as a traditional tablet like an iPad, this tablet's purpose is for notetaking, and it does an excellent job. It has all the best features of the best apps, like templates, audio recording, color-coding, inserting links and attachments to notes, and more. Plus, built-in artificial intelligence allows for text recognition, shape perfection, and a strikethrough erase feature that makes erasing much easier.Some of its standout features enhance your productivity, like the split screen feature that allows you to switch between two different apps, so you can take notes on one side while reading an article on the other. Review: Boox Note Air 4 CWho it's for: In addition, if you need to use this tablet for school or work, you can easily send files to the tablet from your computer or smartphone using BOOXdrop. It takes mere seconds, and you can easily annotate PDFs and other Word documents. One Reddit user noted that the tablet is outstanding in terms of PDF files.Who should look elsewhere: This Boox tablet is not cheap. In fact, it's a lot pricer than the cheapest iPad at $530. Those who are on a budget should probably steer clear, as there are options that are cheaper and will do the job just as good, if not better. Plus, the included pen is very bulky and is hard to keep fastened to the tablet. Boox Note Air 4 C tech specs: Colors: Black | Storage: 64GB | Display: 10.3-inch Kaleido 3 display, 1240 x 930 (150 PPI) for color and 2480 x 1860 (300 PPI) for black and white | Connectivity: Wi-Fi + BT 5.1
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Walmart Why we like it: The Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook has versatile page and template options for only $40. The notebook's synthetic paper allows you to write with the included Pilot FriXion pen, then wipe the page clean with a damp cloth to reuse it repeatedly.In addition, you can save your pages to the Rocketbook app's cloud by tapping your pen on the icon at the bottom of the page to make them easy to find later.Also: Best budget tablet of 2025: High quality, low costsWho it's for: I have gone hands-on with the Rocketbook Fusion. It scratches that itch of satisfaction when hand-writing notes/to-do lists while also letting me check those lists via the app when I'm out and about. I also appreciated the different page styles such as weekly and monthly planners, goal setting, task trackers, an ideas page, dot grids, and lined pages. The Rocketbook Fusion meant I could carry around one notebook instead of three. Amazon customers who have bought and reviewed this smart notebook also agree that the Rocketbook Fusion's ease of use, quality, organization, performance, and writing experience make it a great budget option. Who should look elsewhere: Sometimes, the ink smudges, and if you press hard enough, the pen can indent the pages. Plus, if you're looking to do work on a more traditional tablet, this may not be for you. Although this option is the most environmentally friendly, and is also one of the most portable options. Rocketbook Fusion features: Color options: Nine | Pages: 42 | Page styles: Seven
Pros
Transfers notes from book to app
Different page styles allow for different uses
Compatible with popular cloud services like Dropbox, iCloud, Evernote, and more
Cons
No hardcover option
Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook Best budget smart notebook
Why we like it: The Rocketbook Fusion Smart Notebook has versatile page and template options for only $40. The notebook's synthetic paper allows you to write with the included Pilot FriXion pen, then wipe the page clean with a damp cloth to reuse it repeatedly.In addition, you can save your pages to the Rocketbook app's cloud by tapping your pen on the icon at the bottom of the page to make them easy to find later.Also: Best budget tablet of 2025: High quality, low costsWho it's for: I have gone hands-on with the Rocketbook Fusion. It scratches that itch of satisfaction when hand-writing notes/to-do lists while also letting me check those lists via the app when I'm out and about. I also appreciated the different page styles such as weekly and monthly planners, goal setting, task trackers, an ideas page, dot grids, and lined pages. The Rocketbook Fusion meant I could carry around one notebook instead of three. Amazon customers who have bought and reviewed this smart notebook also agree that the Rocketbook Fusion's ease of use, quality, organization, performance, and writing experience make it a great budget option. Who should look elsewhere: Sometimes, the ink smudges, and if you press hard enough, the pen can indent the pages. Plus, if you're looking to do work on a more traditional tablet, this may not be for you. Although this option is the most environmentally friendly, and is also one of the most portable options. Rocketbook Fusion features: Color options: Nine | Pages: 42 | Page styles: Seven
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at Target Why we like it: The recently updated Kindle Scribe is perhaps the perfect example of an e-reader-tablet hybrid to satisfy your reading and notetaking needs. Its updated AI features include a new display with flush white borders and a paper-like texture, and Active Canvas -- a new experience for taking notes in books. The Active Canvas allows you to take notes and scribble your thoughts directly onto the pages of your book. ZDNET editor Kyle Kucharski put the Active Canvas to the test and appreciated the feature as an avid note-taker. Read the review: The Kindle Scribe is the E Ink tablet I recommend most"The cool design element here is that the notes you draw with the pan exist on another 'layer' than the book text, allowing you to edit what you write without messing with the text in the book," Kucharski wrote in his review. "I actually found that I preferred using the sticky notes function, which drops a tiny icon on the text that, when tapped, opens up a floating window with your notes that can then be closed."Who it's for: The device's AI features can also summarize up to 15 pages in a notebook, neatly extracting key takeaways from the text. It can also transcribe handwritten notes into text, which might benefit those with questionably legible handwriting. The Kindle Scribe now comes with the Premium Pen, a step up from the Basic Pen, with tools like a dedicated eraser and a shortcut button.Who should look elsewhere: A lot of these features have a slight learning curve, making it a bit difficult to master quickly. If you want something more familiar, a different tablet or option may suit you more. Not to mention, the Scribe's is a little pricey, so you may not want to stomach that price tag. Amazon Kinde Scribe tech specs: Display: 10.2-inch 300 ppi Paperwhite display | Storage: 16 GB, 32 GB, or 64 GB | Weight: 15.3 ounces | Dimensions: 7.7 x 9.0 x .22 inches | Connections: Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, USB-C | Battery life: Up to 12 weeks (at 30 minutes per day)
Pros
Bright and paper-like display
Premium note-taking features
Premium Pen included
Built-in AI
Cons
Higher memory models more expensive
Kindle Scribe Best smart notebook for reading
Why we like it: The recently updated Kindle Scribe is perhaps the perfect example of an e-reader-tablet hybrid to satisfy your reading and notetaking needs. Its updated AI features include a new display with flush white borders and a paper-like texture, and Active Canvas -- a new experience for taking notes in books. The Active Canvas allows you to take notes and scribble your thoughts directly onto the pages of your book. ZDNET editor Kyle Kucharski put the Active Canvas to the test and appreciated the feature as an avid note-taker. Read the review: The Kindle Scribe is the E Ink tablet I recommend most"The cool design element here is that the notes you draw with the pan exist on another 'layer' than the book text, allowing you to edit what you write without messing with the text in the book," Kucharski wrote in his review. "I actually found that I preferred using the sticky notes function, which drops a tiny icon on the text that, when tapped, opens up a floating window with your notes that can then be closed."Who it's for: The device's AI features can also summarize up to 15 pages in a notebook, neatly extracting key takeaways from the text. It can also transcribe handwritten notes into text, which might benefit those with questionably legible handwriting. The Kindle Scribe now comes with the Premium Pen, a step up from the Basic Pen, with tools like a dedicated eraser and a shortcut button.Who should look elsewhere: A lot of these features have a slight learning curve, making it a bit difficult to master quickly. If you want something more familiar, a different tablet or option may suit you more. Not to mention, the Scribe's is a little pricey, so you may not want to stomach that price tag. Amazon Kinde Scribe tech specs: Display: 10.2-inch 300 ppi Paperwhite display | Storage: 16 GB, 32 GB, or 64 GB | Weight: 15.3 ounces | Dimensions: 7.7 x 9.0 x .22 inches | Connections: Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, USB-C | Battery life: Up to 12 weeks (at 30 minutes per day)
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: The Rocketbook Core has become the notebook I pop in my purse or tote. If you're like me, the best way to use a notebook is to carry it around with you and write down anything that comes to mind. For example, my running list of restaurants in my area that I need to try. Or my list of things that bring me joy, with items such as watching Wes Anderson films and making dill ranch from scratch. Who it's for: The amazing thing about the Rocketbook is that you really never run out of pages. When my lists start to overflow the page, I can simply scan them with my phone and upload them to the bigger running lists on my Google Drive. And once they're uploaded, the ink on the page can be wiped away with a damp cloth. It combines tech and tradition in a way that still stimulates my brain, but keeps me organized. And it's a win for the environment, as you're using less paper. Who should look elsewhere: My only issues with the notebook were the smudging I encountered whilst passionately writing in the notebook. The pen that comes with it needs a few moments to fully dry, so it smears, especially if you press down hard when you write like I do. It also only comes with black ink, so if you want more color, you'll have to buy more pens from the Pilot Frixion line, as those are the pens that are compatible with the notebook. This Rocketbook Core size is tinier than its siblings; this notebook does better with planning, lists, and doodles rather than a vessel for notes during lecture. If you need it for class, I would recommend getting the bigger size. However, it still works dang good, and I'll be keeping it in my purse for the time being.Rocketbook Core features: Color options: Ten | Pages: 12 | Page layouts: Dot grid and lined | Sizes: Letter and executive
Pros
Portable
Reusable
Helps untether you from technology while still having it as a resource
Cons
Ink smears
Pages can get damaged from pressing to hard
Rocketbook Core Best portable smart notebook
Why we like it: The Rocketbook Core has become the notebook I pop in my purse or tote. If you're like me, the best way to use a notebook is to carry it around with you and write down anything that comes to mind. For example, my running list of restaurants in my area that I need to try. Or my list of things that bring me joy, with items such as watching Wes Anderson films and making dill ranch from scratch. Who it's for: The amazing thing about the Rocketbook is that you really never run out of pages. When my lists start to overflow the page, I can simply scan them with my phone and upload them to the bigger running lists on my Google Drive. And once they're uploaded, the ink on the page can be wiped away with a damp cloth. It combines tech and tradition in a way that still stimulates my brain, but keeps me organized. And it's a win for the environment, as you're using less paper. Who should look elsewhere: My only issues with the notebook were the smudging I encountered whilst passionately writing in the notebook. The pen that comes with it needs a few moments to fully dry, so it smears, especially if you press down hard when you write like I do. It also only comes with black ink, so if you want more color, you'll have to buy more pens from the Pilot Frixion line, as those are the pens that are compatible with the notebook. This Rocketbook Core size is tinier than its siblings; this notebook does better with planning, lists, and doodles rather than a vessel for notes during lecture. If you need it for class, I would recommend getting the bigger size. However, it still works dang good, and I'll be keeping it in my purse for the time being.Rocketbook Core features: Color options: Ten | Pages: 12 | Page layouts: Dot grid and lined | Sizes: Letter and executive
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: If you appreciate the look and feel of Moleskine notebooks, then the company's Pen+ Smart Writing set is the right smart notebook for you. The notebook features the signature dotted Moleskine page in a "paper tablet" format, so the pages are tucked in between a sturdy tablet-like design. Ncoded technology is embedded within each page, which enables the accompanying smart pen to recognize where it is within the notebook and to transfer all your freehand notes from page to screen in real-time.Who it's for: You can upload or share your notes digitally through the Moleskine Notes app and share them to Google Drive or Evernote. In addition, you can use the pen to record audio that lines up with what you've written, creating a multimedia note-taking experience.Read the review: Moleskine Pen+ Ellipse: Smart note-taking cuts out digital distractionsZDNET put the Moleskine Pen+ to the test and particularly appreciated the replay option, which allows you to re-run how your notes came together. "This might not seem very useful for simple note-taking," Steve Ranger, who wrote the review, said, "but if you're drawing or brainstorming, it's really quite handy to see how an image or a set of ideas come together." Who should look elsewhere: We thought that artists, in particular, may find playback useful to see how their drawing process evolved. Customers who have bought the Moleskine agree, saying it's great for sketching, but cautions that the transcription process is a little slow. Moleskine Pen+ features: Color options: Black | Pages: 176 | Page styles: Ruled and dot grid
Pros
Real-time sync creates digital notes as you write them
Sleek and stylish Moleskin notebook
Thick and resistant 100 g/m paper
Cons
Pages can stick together
Sometimes slow transcription
Moleskine Pen+ Smart Writing Set Best stylish smart notebook
Why we like it: If you appreciate the look and feel of Moleskine notebooks, then the company's Pen+ Smart Writing set is the right smart notebook for you. The notebook features the signature dotted Moleskine page in a "paper tablet" format, so the pages are tucked in between a sturdy tablet-like design. Ncoded technology is embedded within each page, which enables the accompanying smart pen to recognize where it is within the notebook and to transfer all your freehand notes from page to screen in real-time.Who it's for: You can upload or share your notes digitally through the Moleskine Notes app and share them to Google Drive or Evernote. In addition, you can use the pen to record audio that lines up with what you've written, creating a multimedia note-taking experience.Read the review: Moleskine Pen+ Ellipse: Smart note-taking cuts out digital distractionsZDNET put the Moleskine Pen+ to the test and particularly appreciated the replay option, which allows you to re-run how your notes came together. "This might not seem very useful for simple note-taking," Steve Ranger, who wrote the review, said, "but if you're drawing or brainstorming, it's really quite handy to see how an image or a set of ideas come together." Who should look elsewhere: We thought that artists, in particular, may find playback useful to see how their drawing process evolved. Customers who have bought the Moleskine agree, saying it's great for sketching, but cautions that the transcription process is a little slow. Moleskine Pen+ features: Color options: Black | Pages: 176 | Page styles: Ruled and dot grid
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best Buy Why we like it: Those diligent note-takers looking to really splurge on a smart reusable notebook should consider the reMarkable 2.
This notebook is more of a large-screen tablet with a low-latency E-Ink writing experience that makes you feel like you're writing on paper rather than on a tablet screen. In addition, with reMarkable's Connect cloud app, you get access to standout features like screen sharing, handwriting conversion, and unlimited cloud storage.Read the review: reMarkable 2 E-Ink tablet: Superb for on-screen writing, but key features are still missingWho it's for: ZDNET contributor Sandra Vogel was impressed with how it felt writing in the notebook. "There's a 'gritty' feel to using the stylus on-screen that's not unlike writing on paper," she said. "Both styluses support 4,096 pressure levels, and there are plenty of pen choices and ink thicknesses to select from."The reMarkable 2 comes with the option of either the Marker or Marker Plus pen, which doesn't need charging and has a built-in eraser (only in the Marker Plus). Customers rate this smart notebook 4.6 out of 5, citing its use as an organizational tool for students and professionals alike.Who should look elsewhere: There are a few caveats, though. There is no backlight, so it may not be ideal in low-light areas or dimly lit lectures. It's also expensive for the limited functions it has. For example, you can't connect with your library's ebook system.  reMarkable 2 features: Color options: Black, blue, red, gray, and white | Storage: 8GB internal storage | Pages: Stores about 100,000 pages | Resolution: 1872 x 1404
Pros
Free one-year subscription to Connect app
Left-handed mode
Easily markup documents
Cons
Expensive option
Have to buy the marker separately
reMarkable 2 Best smart notebook splurge
Why we like it: Those diligent note-takers looking to really splurge on a smart reusable notebook should consider the reMarkable 2.
This notebook is more of a large-screen tablet with a low-latency E-Ink writing experience that makes you feel like you're writing on paper rather than on a tablet screen. In addition, with reMarkable's Connect cloud app, you get access to standout features like screen sharing, handwriting conversion, and unlimited cloud storage.Read the review: reMarkable 2 E-Ink tablet: Superb for on-screen writing, but key features are still missingWho it's for: ZDNET contributor Sandra Vogel was impressed with how it felt writing in the notebook. "There's a 'gritty' feel to using the stylus on-screen that's not unlike writing on paper," she said. "Both styluses support 4,096 pressure levels, and there are plenty of pen choices and ink thicknesses to select from."The reMarkable 2 comes with the option of either the Marker or Marker Plus pen, which doesn't need charging and has a built-in eraser (only in the Marker Plus). Customers rate this smart notebook 4.6 out of 5, citing its use as an organizational tool for students and professionals alike.Who should look elsewhere: There are a few caveats, though. There is no backlight, so it may not be ideal in low-light areas or dimly lit lectures. It's also expensive for the limited functions it has. For example, you can't connect with your library's ebook system.  reMarkable 2 features: Color options: Black, blue, red, gray, and white | Storage: 8GB internal storage | Pages: Stores about 100,000 pages | Resolution: 1872 x 1404
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is the best digital notebook?
The best smart notebook is the Boox Note Air 4 C. I made this pick based on its quality for the price, average rating, and standout features it offers, such as templates, split-screen, text recognition, and more.Smart notebookPricePages/StorageBoox Note Air 4 C$50064GBRocketbook Fusion$4042 pagesKindle Scribe$40016GB, 32GB, or 64GBRocketbook Core$3512 pagesMoleskine Pen+ Smart Writing Set$250176 pagesreMarkable 2$450Stores about 100,000 pages*MSRP at the time of writing. Please note that actual prices may vary depending on available sales, deals, discounts, and coupons.
Show more
Which smart notebook is right for you?
While any of these smart notebooks are great options, it ultimately comes down to what size notebook you want, what kind of notes you will take, and what price you're willing to spend.Choose this smart notebook...If you want...Boox Note Air 4 CThe best overall option. Its included templates and color e-ink screen make it a productive device.Rocketbook FusionA budget-friendly smart notebook. It has 42 pages and seven page styles for you to fill up.Kindle ScribeA smart notebook that's also a great reading tablet. You can easily make notes inside the books you're reading.Rocketbook CoreA portable, reusable notebook that's environmentally friendly.Moleskine Pen+ Smart Writing SetA stylish smart notebook from a classic brand. You can even record audio notes.reMarkable 2A smart notebook packed with plenty of features worth the splurge. You'll feel like you're writing on real paper thanks to the low-latency E-Ink writing experience.
Show more
Is a smart notebook just a fancy way of saying tablet?
If you're on the fence about buying your first tablet:What exactly is a digital notebook?The sole purpose of a smart notebook is exactly that: to digitize a normal notebook. A smart notebook will enhance your basic note-taking experience to another level with better handwriting integration and cloud services.What's the difference between a digital notebook and a tablet? A tablet usually runs on a mobile operating system and offers a wider range of functions such as browsing the web, multimedia, gaming, and other tasks. A digital notebook is more niche and designed specifically for note-taking and digital writing tasks. Is a digital notebook worth it?You can find a digital notebook for well under $20, making it a pretty budget-friendly option for students or anyone looking to organize their notes without breaking the bank. However, if you like for all your devices to be consistent in terms of software, then you might be better off spending a little more for a tablet.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing the best smart notebook
When you're deciding which smart notebook to buy, think about the following important factors: Notebook feel: Does the notebook have a traditional notebook feel? Does it have a resolution that makes it feel more like a tablet as opposed to a notebook, or an appropriate latency?Storage capabilities: While some of these smart notebooks use actual paper, others have digital storage options. I considered both page count and storage capacity, so you have plenty of room to write notes. Price: Smart notebooks range in price points from $10 all the way up to $450. The lower price points will get you real paper notebooks you can convert to digital notes, while the higher price points are more tablet-like notebooks. Special features: You may not need special features in a smart notebook, but they are nice to have. These include audio notes, page templates, and cloud compatibility.
Show more
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETHow we test tablet devices
A lot of these digital notebooks can also be categorized as tablets. When we test different kinds of tablets, we typically follow the same routine for each one to see which performs best when tested in the real world. Display: We measure the brightness level in different lighting conditions and assess color accuracy. We also compare the display's performance with what the manufacturer promised, test the screen's responsiveness to touch, and assess the performance of any extra features, like a manufacturer's stylus.Performance: For real-world performance metrics, our reviewers measure how quickly the tablet reacts to input, assess game performance and frame rates, test how the tablet handles having multiple apps running simultaneously, measure the time it takes to launch apps, and even assess the tablet's temperature during intensive tasks. Battery life: We test different scenarios for battery life, including measuring how long the battery lasts while streaming, web browsing, using productivity apps, and playing games.For a deeper look into our testing process, check out our comprehensive tablet testing methodology.
Show more
Latest NewsThis month's launch of the Noteorius smart notebook adds a new contender to the mix. This smart notebook is built by the same people who made the Boogie Board tablet. It uses a reflective LCD surface with a dark-mode look and no screen glow. It comes with a rechargeable smart pen and all notes sync to the Noteorisum mobile app on both Android and iOS.FAQs on digital notebooks
Do smart notebooks come with a smart pen or are those sold separate?
Most smart notebooks already include a smart pen, but it will also depend on the manufacturer and specific model. Smart notebooks such as reMarkable 2 and Wacom Bamboo Slate include the smart pen with their notebook.
Show more
Would I recommend a smart notebook for students?
Keeping your notes and reminders organized on a single device for school is the best way to improve your productivity in and outside of class. That is why we recommend all students look into our best list of smart notebooks and find which is right for their needs. The Boox is a great option since you can connect it to many third-party apps through the Android store and transfer any files onto it, like essays or notes from class. Also: The best tablets for students
Show more
Do smart notebooks feel like paper?
That depends on the specific product. For example, Rocketbook's lineup of smart notebooks are made with real paper, as is the Moleskine smart notebook. However, other options like the Kindle Scribe and the ReMarkable 2 have low-latency, e-ink screens that feel paper-like, but you can still definitely tell they are more of a tablet than an actual notebook with paper.
Show more
Can you use an iPad as a smart notebook?
While you won't get the "feel" of real paper with an iPad, you can use an iPad as a way to take notes digitally, especially if you have a quality stylus like the Apple Pencil. iOS apps like Noteflow allow you to take notes, annotate PDFs, sketch and doodle, and more while syncing to the cloud.
Show more
Recent updatesIn our August 2025 update, we added a news link revealing the Noteorius smart notebook.In our June 2025 update, we added the Rocketbook Core to the list as the best portable digital notebook, updated our charts, added more information, and prices on certain models.Other smart notebooks we've tested
Best premium alternative reMarkable Paper Pro Professionals who are serious about digital notetaking should consider reMarkable's Paper Pro, which has a large, colored screen and a host of integrations for popular productivity software.
View at Amazon
Best alternative for reading Kobo Libra Colour This color e-reader can also double as a digital notebook, thanks to the included stylus and various templates. You can customize the device, whether you need to make a to-do list, keep a daily journal, or have a calendar handy.
View at Us.kobobooks
Best alternative for sketching Huion Note This smart notebook from Huion comes with a pen with 8,192 pressure levels, making it perfect for sketching or drawing.
View at Huion For more on getting the most out of your notetaking, check out these tips and tricks for taking notes on a tablet.
ZDNET’s Tablet Guide
Tablet Roundups
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Tablets Reviewed & Compared
iPad Pro 2024 review
Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra review
Amazon Kindle Scribe review
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra review
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra review
Lenovo Tab P12 Pro review
iPad 2022 vs iPad Air 2022
iPad 2021 vs Remarkable 2
Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra vs Apple iPad Pro
Amazon Fire Tablet vs Apple iPad
Kindle Scribe vs Remarkable 2 tablet
Google Pixel Tablet vs Apple iPad 2022
Tablets Explained
How to add books to an old Kindle
How to take notes on your iPad with an Apple Pencil 3
How to turn an old Fire Tablet into an Echo Show
How to use stage manager on your iPad
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use