Education Department will promote ‘patriotic’ civics education : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Education Department will promote ‘patriotic’ civics education The group of more than 40 conservative organizations met for the first time on Wednesday. The initiative is aimed at celebrations of the nation's founding next summer.
Education
U.S. Education Dept. unites conservative groups to create 'patriotic' civics content
September 17, 202510:04 PM ET
Sequoia Carrillo
U.S. Education Secretary Linda McMahon at a Senate subcommittee in June.
Eric Lee/Bloomberg/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Eric Lee/Bloomberg/Getty Images
Student Podcast Challenge
Here they are: The best student podcasts in America
The U.S. Department of Education announced a partnership Wednesday with more than 40 conservative organizations to create programming around civics aimed at the celebration of the 250th anniversary of the United States. This coalition "will take bold steps to educate, inspire, and mobilize youth toward active and informed citizenship," U.S. Education Secretary Linda McMahon said in a press release. Called the America 250 Civics Education Coalition, the project will be overseen by the Education Department and led by the America First Policy Institute (AFPI), a nonprofit conservative group. It includes Turning Point USA, the Heritage Foundation, Hillsdale College and other conservative state and national organizations. The Education Department statement said the initiative "is dedicated to renewing patriotism, strengthening civic knowledge, and advancing a shared understanding of America's founding principles in schools across the nation."
Sponsor Message
The department did not provide details of the types of educational materials or programs to be created, saying the coalition held its first meeting on Wednesday, and would be rolling out "a robust programming agenda," over the next 12 months. Included in that programming, the statement said, would be a 50-state speaking tour on college campuses and a college speaker series on fundamental liberties. Erika Donalds, co-chair of the coalition and chair of education opportunity at AFPI, said in the announcement that, "through this coalition, we are uniting to bring these lessons back to classrooms and communities and prepare future generations to safeguard our republic." The announcement comes as the Trump administration is dismantling the Education Department in an effort to "return education to the states." The federal government is prohibited by law from "any direction, supervision, or control over the curriculum" in schools. Education Department officials did not return a request for comment Wednesday night. The department also announced that it would begin a program to award grants "to promote a civic education that teaches American history, values, and geography with an unbiased approach." This is not the first time President Trump has sought to promote patriotism in education. During his first term he founded the "1776 Commission" to advise on how to teach young people the "founding principles" of the nation. In an executive action earlier this year, part of a broader announcement about "ending racial indoctrination" in schools, he revived it.
Education
civics
U.S. Education Department
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor