Stories from CBS News HealthWatch
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
HealthWatch
Eat
Move
Sleep
Love
Mental Health
Health Essentials
Spotlight On: Gut Health
Latest News
Shrimp sold in 31 states recalled due to possible radioactive contamination
AquaStar (USA) Corp is recalling more than 85,000 bags of shrimp due to insanitary conditions where the products may have been contaminated with cesium-137, a radioactive element.
4H ago
Parents navigate mixed messaging on child vaccine recommendations
Parents are navigating mixed messaging about childhood vaccinations from federal and state officials.
6H ago
As Trump makes autism announcement, Tylenol maker and medical experts push back
The Trump administration announced it believes acetaminophen is linked to autism risk, but the maker of Tylenol and medical experts have strongly pushed back on the claims.
updated 40M ago
Loopholes in hospital charity care programs stick patients with bills
Even if people qualify for financial help with their hospital bills, the care they receive may not be covered.
15H ago
He couldn't eat. It was the warning sign of a rare condition
Ed Langevin liked the simple things in life — until painful symptoms started haunting him.
Sep 20
Diet and nutrition
More
Endangered shark meat sold under misleading labels in the U.S., study finds
Meat from shark species at risk of extinction is commonly available in the U.S. under ambiguous or incorrect labels, researchers found.
Sep 10
Warmer weather drives Americans to consume more sugar, study finds
Do you reach for chilled sodas and frozen treats when it gets hot? A new study from Nature Climate Change journal found Americans consume more added sugar when temperatures rise.
Sep 8
Surprising ways to get more calcium in your diet
Not a milk drinker? Not a problem. There are still expert-approved ways to get calcium in your diet from sources you may not know contain the bone-supporting mineral.
Aug 26
32,000 pounds of meat products recalled due to false USDA inspection marks
Sabrositos Hondurenos, LLC is recalling about 32,000 pounds of various meat products with a false USDA mark of inspection, meaning the meats didn't go through proper federal examination, according to federal officials.
Aug 21
Wegmans recalls cheese products due to potential listeria contamination
Wegmans is recalling its brand of medium camembert cheese and products that contain it due to potential listeria contamination, which can lead to serious illness.
Aug 13
More
Fitness and exercise
More
This number of steps a day can reduce risk of death, diseases, analysis finds
Research published in The Lancet Public Health journal landed on a number different than the 10,000 daily step​ recommendation you may have previously heard.
Jul 23
New recommendations to measure obesity go beyond controversial BMI
Body Mass Index, or BMI, has long been criticized as an unreliable method for measuring obesity — and now a group of experts is sharing new recommendations for how to use it.
Jan 15
Are you really getting a moderate or intense workout? Here's how to tell.
Looking to amp up your exercise​ as part of your New Year's resolutions​? Here's how to calculate the intensity of your workouts.
Jan 1
More
Sleep
More
Is dairy disturbing your dreams? Here's what a study found out.
In the study, published Monday in journal Frontiers in Psychology​, 40.2% of participants reported certain eating habits affected their sleep.
Jul 1
6 stretches to try for a better night sleep
Stretching can be a beneficial step to add to your bedtime routine, experts say. Here are some moves to consider.
Apr 30
Insomnia can lead to heart issues. A psychologist shares tips for better sleep.
Research has found that bad sleep could lead to numerous health problems, including heart disease. Here are recommendations to improve sleep.
Mar 20
Is daylight saving time bad for your health? A neurologist explains.
Researchers are discovering that "springing ahead" each March for daylight saving time is connected with serious negative health effects.
Mar 8
Expert tips for sleeping better as you age
It's common among older adults to not get a consistent full night's rest, but there are ways to improve sleep issues. A sleep psychologist shares tips.
Mar 3
More
Love & relationships
More
How one community is fighting rising syphilis infections
The Navajo Nation has a unique program to fight sexually transmitted infections, including syphilis.
Apr 1
What is micro-cheating? Relationship experts share what to know.
Micro-cheating, whether intentional or not, can negatively impact a couple in a number of ways. Here's what to know, according to relationship experts.
Mar 12
6 green flags to look for in a partner, according to relationship experts
Daters are often aware of red flags​, or undesirable traits or behaviors to avoid in a potential partner​. But what about green flags? Here's what experts say to look for.
Feb 14
More
Mental health, mindfulness and self-care
More
U.S. moms report large decline in mental health in recent years, study finds
Only about a fourth of moms in the United States say they have "excellent" physical and mental health, according to a new study.
May 27
Feeling anti-social? You're not alone. But here's why it could hurt your health.
Loneliness can impact both your mental and physical health. Here's what to know, according to experts.
Mar 19
Plane crashes can spark fear of flying. Here are tips to help you cope.
If headlines of recent plane crashes​ have you worried about air travel, you're not alone — but there are things to keep in mind to ease flying anxiety.
Feb 20
What is red light therapy? Dermatologist explains the skin care trend
Red light therapy, also known as LED therapy, is trending for skin care. Here's what to know about it, according to a dermatologist.
Feb 3
Dads can get postpartum depression too. Here's what to know.
Postpartum depression, a serious mental health condition,​ isn't just something new moms​ can struggle with — studies show new dads can also be affected.
Jan 28
More
Spotlight on gut health
More
Chocolate for gut health? An expert shares what makes your gut happy.
Dr. Uma Naidoo, a nutritional psychiatrist and author of "This Is Your Brain on Food," shares elements to include in your diet​ ​for boosting both physical and mental health.
Aug 24, 2023
What's the deal with probiotics? Should you be taking one?
Probiotic supplements, mixtures meant to replicate the healthy bacteria found inside our gut, are everywhere - but should you be taking them? We asked experts.
May 5, 2023
What you should eat to support your gut-brain connection
Dr. Uma Naidoo, a nutritional psychiatrist and author of "This is Your Brain on Food," explains the surprising role our gut plays in maintaining mental health.
Apr 20, 2023
More
Health and fitness essentials
More
This number of steps a day can reduce risk of death, diseases, analysis finds
Research published in The Lancet Public Health journal landed on a number different than the 10,000 daily step​ recommendation you may have previously heard.
Jul 23
New recommendations to measure obesity go beyond controversial BMI
Body Mass Index, or BMI, has long been criticized as an unreliable method for measuring obesity — and now a group of experts is sharing new recommendations for how to use it.
Jan 15
Are you really getting a moderate or intense workout? Here's how to tell.
Looking to amp up your exercise​ as part of your New Year's resolutions​? Here's how to calculate the intensity of your workouts.
Jan 1
What is a balance bike? The benefits of the training wheel-free option for kids.
While bikes with training wheels teach kids to pedal, steer and brake, balance bikes focus on the balance aspect from the start.
Dec 5, 2024
Exercising like this could give those over 40 extra years of life, research says
Exercising​ like the most active 25% of Americans can help those over 40 add an extra 5 years to their life on average, according to new research.
Nov 14, 2024
More
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue