Xfinity Internet Review: Examining Plans, Pricing, Speeds and Availability - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Xfinity Internet Review: Examining Plans, Pricing, Speeds and Availability
The country's largest cable internet provider offers a wide range of plans. Let's explore whether more equals better.
Article updated on July 18, 2025 at 4:30 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Trey Paul
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
34353637383940+ Reviews 344345346347348349350400+ Cities/States
Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links.
Unavailable in
Provider unavailable in 90001 Edit ...
Starting at $20
Or call:
Or call to learn more:
(877) 477-8169
Xfinity Internet rating How we calculated our rating
7.0/10
CNET Score
We score internet providers for speed, value and customer care. Our data sources include the FCC, J.D. Power, The American Customer Satisfaction Index and extensive in-house research.
Read more
7.0 / 10
SCORE
Speed
7.5/10
Value
6.5/10
Customer Care
7/10
Pros
Good variety of plans
Some of the fastest residential plans available
Above average scores in almost all customer satisfaction metrics
Cons
Data caps for some plans
Contracts often required to get the lowest price
Steep jump from promo price to regular rates
See more pros and cons
Table of Contents
Xfinity Internet Review: Examining Plans, Pricing, Speeds and Availability
Xfinity Internet review
Xfinity Internet plans and pricing
What internet connection type is Xfinity Internet?
Who can get Xfinity Internet?
Xfinity Internet deals and promos
Xfinity Internet boasts decent customer satisfaction scores
Final thoughts on Xfinity Internet
Xfinity Internet FAQs
Xfinity Internet reviewComcast's Xfinity is available to over a third of US households across 39 states, firmly establishing the company as the most extensive nationwide cable internet service provider. Previously, plans, pricing and service details differed by region. But in April, Xfinity introduced a new price guarantee that removes some uncertainty from future bills. But you can still expect a range of speed tiers and reasonable introductory pricing in all Xfinity markets.Xfinity may be the nation's largest cable ISP, but does that automatically make it the best? The variety of internet speed plans makes it easy to be impressed, but your eyes may glaze over a bit as you dig into the details. Is there such a thing as too many options?With Xfinity, some plans require you to sign a contract, but not all do. Beyond that, you can expect the price of your plan to increase over time, sometimes by more than 50% of the initial charge.
Locating local internet providers
Headaches like high prices and hidden fees are par for the course with ISPs, making it difficult to tell if you're getting a good deal on your home's internet connection. It's worth understanding what you might get, especially if you need speed and fiber isn't an option for your area or address. Let's dive in more fully on Xfinity's plans, prices and service terms.
James Martin/CNETXfinity Internet plans and pricing Before this April, Xfinity presented different internet plans, depending on where you lived in the country. That's changed. It's now a bit easier to digest what Xfinity offers. Speeds and prices in the chart below reflect the discount from the automatic payment enrollment. If you choose to forgo the paperless billing discount, you must add $10 monthly.
Locating local internet providers
Xfinity Internet one-year term
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details Connect More $40 ($80 after 12 months)300Mbps download, 150Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 1 year; $15 gateway rental after 12 monthsFast $45 ($95 after 12 months)500Mbps download, 150Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 1 year; $15 gateway rental after 12 months1 Gig $50 ($110 after 12 months)1,100Mbps download, 300Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 1 year; $15 gateway rental after 12 months2 Gig $70 ($140 after 12 months)2,000Mbps download, 300Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 1 year; $15 gateway rental after 12 monthsGigabit Pro (fiber) $30010,000Mbps download, 10,000Mbps upload$20 gateway rental (required), unlimited data, 2-year contract
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
Xfinity Internet five-year term
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details Connect More $55 ($80 after 5 years)300Mbps download, 150Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 5 years; $15 gateway rental afterwardsFast $60 ($95 after 5 years)500Mbps download, 150Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 5 years; $15 gateway rental afterwards1 Gig $65 ($110 after 5 years)1,100Mbps download, 300Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 5 years; $15 gateway rental afterwards2 Gig $85 ($140 after 5 years)2,000Mbps download, 300Mbps uploadEquipment and unlimited data free for 5 years; $15 gateway rental afterwardsGigabit Pro (fiber) $30010,000Mbps download, 10,000Mbps upload$20 gateway rental (required), unlimited data, 2-year contract
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.Breaking down Xfinity Internet's value per MbpsAn Xfinity spokesperson shared with CNET that one of the big headlines with the launch of the five-year price guarantee is "we also now have unified offers across all divisions." If you've been keeping score with CNET's reviews -- and we sincerely hope you have -- you might remember we used to have some consternation about the varying rates and plans across Xfinity's footprint. That's no longer the case (or at least until this latest promotion ends, which runs through September). That said, what remains with Xfinity's plans is the sometimes stark contrast between the enticing promo price and a more costly regular rate. Most ISPs try to lure customers with competitive introductory prices that eventually balloon into a high monthly fee. Xfinity is no exception. But these new rates do help give greater clarity to your monthly bill.Price jumps aside, Xfinity's regular rates -- the amount you'll pay each month after the cost goes up -- aren't all that unreasonable compared to other cable providers. For instance, the cost per Mbps of the regular rate across all plans after the promotional price is approximately 16 cents, which is right about in the middle of what you can expect to pay for cable internet service. It may be more expensive than Spectrum's nine cents-per-Mbps standard cost but cheaper than Cox's average 26 cents-per-Mbps for its nonpromotional rates.
Comcast offers Xfinity subscribers the use of its xFi Gateway device, included in all plans during the promotional period. ComcastWhat internet connection type is Xfinity Internet?One detail you may have noticed in the plan tables is the discrepancy between the download and upload speeds. That is because Xfinity Internet relies almost solely on hybrid fiber-coaxial cable connections to service subscribers' homes. HFC offers speeds much faster than those typically offered by DSL, satellite and fixed wireless networks. Still, due to the asymmetrical nature of the connection, your download speeds will always be much higher than your upload speeds. That's the main reason cable falls short of the performance of fiber-to-the-home networks. Most of us pay closer attention to download speeds because they affect our ability to watch movies, listen to new music or stream our favorite shows without that nagging buffering. As more of us work from home, our ability to upload files is becoming more critical. For example, Zoom recommends approximately 2-4Mbps of upload speed for single-screen usage of its platform. If you have two remote workers or students on separate Zoom calls simultaneously or on an important work call while the kids are gaming online, you could run into issues quickly with some of these plans. Most of its footprint uses HFC, but Xfinity offers one FTTH option with its top-speed plan, Gigabit Pro. That plan is available only in select homes equipped for it, so you'll need to request a site survey to ensure that serviceability is possible. Our Comcast sources also tell us that Xfinity focuses on using existing cable connections to achieve the symmetrical speeds we commonly associate with fiber rather than chasing after additional fiber deployments. To that end, Xfinity is rolling out faster upload speeds to about a third of its national footprint. Customers should begin to see upload speeds that might not yet rival those of a fiber internet connection but are higher than those of other cable ISPs we've seen.Who can get Xfinity Internet? Xfinity home internet plans are available in 39 states and Washington, D.C. Here's the full lineup:
Alabama KentuckyNorth CarolinaArizona LouisianaOhioArkansas MaineOregonCalifornia MarylandPennsylvaniaColorado MassachusettsSouth CarolinaConnecticut MichiganTennesseeDelaware MinnesotaTexasFlorida MississippiUtahGeorgia MissouriVermontIdaho New HampshireVirginiaIllinois New JerseyWashingtonIndiana New MexicoWest VirginiaKansas New YorkWisconsin
Show more (8 items)
Shop providers at my address
Do you live in one of these states and are trying to determine whether you're eligible for Xfinity service? You can check your address using the internet serviceability tool at the bottom or top of this page.
In addition to Comcast's xFi router, Xfinity subscribers can add plug-in xFi Pods to build a mesh Wi-Fi network. Comcast Additional monthly fees It's always a good idea to take some time to read the fine print. If you're planning out your budget, you want to ensure you've allotted the proper amount for your internet service. After all, there's much more to your internet bill than the starting monthly fee. Regarding monthly fees, all the rates we show assume a $10-per-month discount for enrolling in automatic payments and paperless billing. If you choose not to go that route, you can expect an additional $10 monthly charge. Also, as mentioned above, your monthly rate will convert to a higher regular rate after your promo rate ends -- which can happen either 12 months or five years after starting service, depending on your chosen plan. Once your promotional period ends, you'll be charged $15 per month for Xfinity's modem-router combo. It features free security measures, parental controls over your home's Wi-Fi and full tech support. Finally, Xfinity allows you to use your own modem and router, but your equipment must be compatible with its service. Even if it is, you won't get the same technical support or device upgrades. Xfinity Internet's one-time installation fee If you would like a technician to activate your service and verify all your home connections, you'll incur a charge of $100. Xfinity does let you bypass this additional cost by selecting self-install, meaning it'll ship you a Getting Started kit, and you can activate the service on your own using the Xfinity app. Most markets will see no charge for self-installation.Xfinity Internet data-usage policy The good news? You get unlimited data right out of the gate. However, you may also have to deal with a data cap down the road. Previously, Xfinity enforced a monthly data cap set at 1.2TB (1,200GB) on most plans. The current offer includes unlimited data on all plans, but it's unclear if the previous data cap returns after your one- or five-year promotional rate.What does 1.2TB of data get you? If you want to binge all four seasons of Stranger Things in glorious 4K, you can expect to use up to 7GB per hour of viewing time. The latest report from OpenVault notes that the average monthly household bandwidth usage is approximately 590GB, so most customers should be able to stay under Xfinity's monthly data limit. Xfinity Internet deals and promos
You can stream content from apps like Hulu on Comcast's Xfinity Flex, which also comes with a free subscription to Peacock Premium.  ComcastWe've talked about the not-so-hidden additional fees you might expect to incur when signing up for internet service. You will also find freebies or enticing extras when you sign up for broadband with Xfinity. First, since Comcast Xfinity offers multiple services, you can potentially get another $10 to $30 a month off your internet bill for two years if you have an active, qualifying Xfinity Mobile line.Next up, because Xfinity also offers TV, home security, voice and mobile services, several bundle deals can help you knock $10 or more a month off your regular bill. All customers should have the option of nearly 10 types of bundles, ranging from Double Play options (internet plus another service) to premium bundle packages that include internet, TV and streaming, phone and home security. Speaking of bundles, Comcast also announced last year a streaming bundle called Xfinity StreamSaver. It allows Xfinity Internet customers to sign up for a combo of Peacock Premium, Netflix Standard (with ads) and Apple TV Plus for $15 monthly. That's a savings of over 30% for the three streaming services. Meanwhile, customers who sign up for gigabit speeds or higher will automatically receive two years of Peacock Premium for free. Finally, you'll have access to over 20 million Xfinity hotspots nationwide. That means you'll have free Wi-Fi connectivity on the go. Xfinity Internet boasts decent customer satisfaction scores
ACSIOver the last few years, Comcast Xfinity has done relatively well in customer satisfaction metrics. When you look at the most recent American Customer Satisfaction Index numbers, Xfinity fell just below the industry average, scoring 69 out of 100 points. On the positive side, that's a 3% increase from 2024.Hopping over to the J.D. Power 2024 US Residential Internet Service Provider Satisfaction Study, Xfinity consistently ranked in the top third for overall customer satisfaction. The study uses a 1,000-point scale and breaks the country into four geographic regions: West, South, North Central and East. Xfinity did well overall, with an average score of 539 points across all regions. That was good enough for second place in the East (behind Verizon), second in the North Central (behind AT&T), second in the West (behind AT&T) and third in the South (behind Google Fiber and Frontier). Final thoughts on Xfinity InternetComcast Xfinity is the largest cable internet provider in the country, with relatively strong customer service scores and gigabit service available across the entire coverage map. Addresses equipped with a fiber-to-the-home connection might even be able to sign up for speeds of 10,000Mbps, one of the faster residential internet plans you'll find. Unless a dedicated fiber provider offers service in your area, the odds are good that Xfinity is your fastest option. Just watch out for the company's price hikes after your promo period. Although most providers will raise your bill after the first year, Xfinity's increases can be particularly steep. If all of that sounds workable, Xfinity is well worth consideration. Xfinity Internet FAQs
Is Comcast the same as Xfinity?
Yes. Comcast owns Xfinity and launched the brand back in 2010. Comcast offers internet, TV, home security and phone services under the Xfinity brand.
Show more
Does Xfinity offer the best internet plans?
Xfinity has a variety of plans, and it can boast one of the fastest plans for residential homes with its Gigabit Pro offering. Whether it offers the best internet plan for your home depends on your address and which other providers may be available to you.
Show more
What is the phone number for Xfinity?
The Xfinity customer service phone number is 800-934-6489. If you want to bypass the phones, you can contact Xfinity online at Xfinity Support, where you can chat with a representative at all hours of the day, find an Xfinity location near you or visit a variety of help and support forums.
Show more
Where can I find info on Xfinity's privacy policy?
The Xfinity Privacy Policy is fairly easy to find on its site. Even better, it's surprisingly thorough and helpful for customers. For example, there are easy-to-follow instructions on how customers can control what data Comcast/Xfinity collects. The company's Manage opt-outs page also includes guidance on how to opt out of data collection via Facebook, Twitter, Google Analytics and more. "If we share your personal information with other companies for their own marketing and advertising activities, we will first get your consent," the policy reads, before noting those choices for opting in or out of data-driven marketing. "We do not sell, and have never sold, information that identifies who you are to anyone," the policy states. "This includes your internet usage information, video usage information, or call detail information."
Show more
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.