How I Planned a Family Trip so Good It Got My Teens Off Their Phones - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Travel
I planned an action-packed family vacation so good that it got my teens off their phones. We're never going back to basic trips.
By
Christina Valhouli
My boys said our trip to Belize was the best vacation we ever took, and I'm taking that sentiment to heart when planning future trips.
Christina Valhouli
2025-09-18T16:08:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
To try to please my teens, I planned a lot of adventurous activities when we went to Belize.
We rode on a boat, snorkeled with sharks, explored caves, and had great food.
My boys loved the trip. This experience taught me to make future family vacations more exciting.
As a travel writer and mom of two teenage boys, I've learned the hard way that typical cultural outings and walking tours don't cut it anymore.
My older son still hasn't forgiven me for dragging him to both the Amsterdam Cheese Museum and the Tulip Museum in one day.So last November I tried something different: a one-week trip to Belize that mixed jungle, beach, and nonstop adventure.
The trip began with an adventure in Belize's blue waters
Our trip included some hiking and snorkeling.
Christina Valhouli
We split the trip between Ambergris Caye and San Ignacio to make sure we could experience the jungle and the beach.The adventure began with a flight to Ambergris Caye, where I chose a three-bedroom suite at the beachfront Pelican Reef Villas. This way, our family could spread out with enough space to help avoid brotherly bickering.While suntanning on Pelican Reef's dock, I saw guests hugging their boat crew after a day out, saying things like, "Thank you for one of the best days of my life."
Intrigued, I scrapped plans to do a group snorkeling trip and booked a private charter departing from that dock, one with Captain Oliver and his team.At $630 for the day, it was marginally more than the cost of the group trip. (The rate has since increased to about $700, which I'd still say is a good deal.)
Private boats, weapons, and sharks sounded like they could be interesting.
Christina Valhouli
Oliver and his crew delivered a fantastic experience. They took us swimming with nurse sharks at Shark Ray Alley, where my boys dared each other to touch a shark (they did).
They also got to try using spear guns to catch fish, and although they weren't lucky, they loved the novelty of the experience.While we fished off the boat, the crew dove for fresh conch that became an onboard ceviche snack.
We had fresh conch during our ride.
Christina Valhouli
For lunch, we anchored off a tiny private island for a feast of grilled spiny lobster, rice, and beans. The last stop was feeding tarpon by hand off Caulker Caye.
Next, we channeled Indiana Jones in the jungle
My family stayed in a cottage at Vanilla Hills Resort.
Christina Valhouli
Inland, we based ourselves at Vanilla Hills Resort near San Ignacio.When I asked a staff member what to sign up for, they suggested the Actun Tunichil Muknal cave tour, adding that my "boys will think they're Indiana Jones." Sold!
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Our tour guide led us on a hike through the jungle to Actun Tunichil Muknal cave — and our trek was complete with incredible river crossings, where we hung on to a rope for stability.
Once inside, we swam through underground chambers, scrambled up boulders, and squeezed through rocks with ominous names like "The Guillotine."We also learned about the sacred cave, which is home to ancient pottery and human remains from ritual sacrifices. I'm sure my boys won't forget the tale of a ceremony involving piercing a foreskin with a stingray tail.At $145 a person, this otherworldly adventure was worth every cent.
Even the more mundane parts of our trip, like driving around and getting food, felt fun
We went to a drive-thru coffee shop on a golf cart.
Christina Valhouli
Many people were using golf carts to get around Ambergris Caye, so we joined them. Renting a golf cart only cost us about $35 a day.We loved taking it for spins on deserted sandy roads. We even discovered a golf-cart-friendly drive-thru coffee shop in San Pedro.It was also fun checking out local eateries, like Robin's Kitchen, a simple barbecue shack with sand floors and a menu of oxtail and jerk chicken tacked to the wall.
My boys liked the food at Ko-Ox-Han-Nah.
Christina Valhouli
My boys were also impressed by the food in San Ignacio. Local restaurants like Ko-Ox-Han-Nah and Pop's served teen-boy gold: burritos, milkshakes, and fry jacks (fried dough).All in all, Belize was a hit with our familyAfterward, my sons declared this the "best trip ever" — and it taught me a few lessons I'm taking to heart when planning future family vacations.For starters, I hope to continue booking adventurous activities and turning to locals (and happy fellow tourists) for recommendations and inspiration.
Really, our trip to Belize hit a new sweet spot for my family, offering just the right amount of adventure, nature, and fun without a kids' club in sight.We won't be going back to "basic" vacations anytime soon.
Recommended video
Travel
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account