White House threatens layoffs if the government shuts down : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
White House threatens layoffs if the government shuts down In past government shutdowns, workers have been put on temporary furloughs until funding resumes. This time, the Trump White House is looking for bigger and more permanent cuts, a new memo shows.
Politics
White House threatens layoffs — not furloughs — if the government shuts down
September 24, 202511:28 PM ET
Tamara Keith
Office of Management and Budget Director Russell Vought attends a Cabinet meeting with President Trump at the White House on July 8.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
If the government shuts down on Oct. 1, the White House said it will look for ways to use the funding dispute to permanently eliminate some federal workers, rather than just temporarily send them home on unpaid leave.
Politics
Trump cancels meeting with Democrats as prospects for shutdown increase
This proposed "reduction in force" — outlined in a memo obtained by NPR on Wednesday — would be a significant shift from past government shutdowns, when employees have been temporarily furloughed until a budget deal is reached. The White House Office of Management and Budget told agency heads that a funding lapse would give the administration the chance to issue "reduction in force" (RIF) notices to people who work on programs that are "not consistent with the president's priorities." The plans were first reported by Politico.
Sponsor Message
It's the latest push by President Trump's budget director, Russell Vought, to aggressively cut government programs created and funded by Congress, including foreign aid, spending on electric vehicle charging stations and funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Vought has argued that presidents — rather than Congress — have considerable power to control more spending, Democrats and the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) have disagreed. House Republicans have passed a bill that would fund the government at current levels through Nov. 21. But in the Senate, where 60 votes are required to pass the bill, Democrats have insisted on adding a number of measures, including subsidies for Affordable Care Act insurance premiums. They are set to expire, hitting Americans who buy insurance on the Obamacare exchanges with shocking price increases this year. Schumer calls the memo "an attempt at intimidation" Democratic leaders had been set to sit down with Trump on Thursday to talk about the issues, but Trump canceled the meeting, saying Democrats were making "unserious and ridiculous demands." The White House said it supports the bill passed by House Republicans. In the memo, the OMB said its layoff notices could be avoided if Democrats decide to support the bill.
Politics
Senate Democrats signal plans to advance GOP bill to avoid a government shutdown
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., called the memo "an attempt at intimidation" in a statement released late Wednesday night. "This is nothing new and has nothing to do with funding the government," Schumer wrote. "These unnecessary firings will either be overturned in court or the administration will end up hiring the workers back, just like they did as recently as today." Congressional Democrats are under intense pressure from their voters to stand up to Trump after they provided the votes to pass a six-month spending bill in March.
Sponsor Message
At the time, Schumer said that a shutdown would give Trump the power to pick and choose what departments and agencies to reopen. The plan for layoff notices is a break from the Trump administration's approach during his first term. In 2018, Trump refused to sign a bipartisan stopgap government funding bill because it didn't include funding for his border wall, sparking a 35-day shutdown, the longest on record. But the administration worked to reduce the pain from the shutdown by keeping as much of the government open as possible, and pledging to give furloughed workers back pay as quickly as possible.
Donald Trump
chuck schumer
shutdown
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor