I compared every Apple Watch in 2025 - here's why I recommend this model the most | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
I compared every Apple Watch in 2025 - here's why I recommend this model the most
It doesn't grab attention like the flashier models, but the Apple Watch SE 3 quietly stands out as the smartest buy for many.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 19, 2025 at 2:00 a.m. PT
Apple Watch SE 3
ZDNET's key takeaways Apple's affordable SE 3 is an approachable entry point into the brand's health-tracking suite. Some users might not like the smaller display The watch packs great value for a lower price, making it the one out of the lineup I'd recommend to smartwatch-curious shoppers. View now at Apple
sep / 2025Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Earlier this month, Apple unveiled three new smartwatches during its annual September event. While flashier features on the more expensive watches, like Hypertension on the baseline Series 11 or Emergency SOS on the Ultra 3, caught the most wind, the Apple Watch SE 3 commanded attention by simply existing. The smartwatch is the most affordable out of the lineup. At $250, it's $150 less than the starting price of the Series 11 and $550 less than the rugged Ultra 3. Despite its cheaper price, it packs much of the same software and hardware that its siblings boast and forgoes the flourishes.Also: Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older modelsI tested the smartwatch out to see how its daily user experience compared to other members of 2025's Apple Watch lineup. Here's who I'd recommend the watch to (and who I wouldn't).
Apple Watch SE The smartwatch offers less flashy features and battery life than its siblings, but it's a great deal on high-quality tech, nevertheless.
details
View at Apple Let's begin with hardware. The case is two millimeters smaller than the Apple Watch Series 11's, and the display area is the smallest out of the watch lineup. Because of this, the default for communication isn't a keyboard -- it's a letter drawing pad. This was a fun, creative alternative to the SE 3's small screen problem, but I can imagine drawing out words on a tiny screen would get exhausting if a user did not have their phone nearby. Also: How to preorder Apple's latest devices, including the iPhone 17 seriesAt 1,000 nits, the watch's brightness is the lowest out of the lineup -- compared to the Series 11's 2,000 and the Ultra 3's 3,000. Nevertheless, I was still able to see the functionalities outside on a sunny walk, and I don't believe most users would even notice the dimmer screen if they weren't actively comparing with a Series 11 or Ultra 3.
The Apple Watch Series SE 3 (right) and Watch Series 11 (left) look nearly identical, which is a good thing. Nina Raemont/ZDNETBecause of the watch's smaller build, it was easy to exercise and sleep with it, especially compared to its big brother, the Apple Watch Ultra 3, which took a little getting used to in the bedroom. In my testing, the watch's battery life lived up to its 18-hour claims. With fast charging, the watch can now go from 0 to 80% in 45 minutes. 15 minutes of charging give users eight hours of wear -- enough to track a whole night's sleep. Apple adds its S10 chip, found in the Series 10, 11, and Ultra 3, to its SE 3. This brings an Always-On Display, fast-charging, and 5G to the device for the first time. Also: Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not aloneOne critique of the SE 2 was that it lacked the Always-On Display, which makes the watch easily glanceable and interactive. However, the S10 fixes that and makes the smartwatch nearly as competitive as its higher-end siblings. The chip also brings Sleep Apnea Detection to the SE 3 and is one of the bigger feature announcements coming to the other smartwatches: Sleep Scores. The SE 3 now rates sleep based on duration, bedtime consistency, and interruptions to deliver a nightly score. Before this update, I was getting a graph with my heart rate data and sleep duration every morning. Now I can visualize through an easy-to-understand rating system how I slept and three specific factors that I can improve on. As I write in my review of the Series 11, Sleep Scores aren't perfect, and they often feel generous in their rating. But the feature addition could help boost the watch's sleeping features and usability, and make sleep-tracking more approachable.Apple also adds temperature sensing to the smartwatch, for users tracking their menstrual cycle for family-planning purposes. Best smartwatch deals of the week
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $85 (save $25)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $200 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra (Wi-Fi, LTE, 47mm, Titanium Silver):  $500 (save $150)
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 46mm, Black, M/L Sports Band):  $359 (save $70)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Bluetooth, 40mm, Cream):  $200 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Who should buy the Apple Watch SE 3?
Nina Raemont/ZDNETThe Apple Watch SE 3 is the smartwatch first-time buyers and budget shoppers should get. The watch is made for curious users looking to dip their toes in the health-tracking water, doing so without some of the more high-end functionalities that hike up the prices of other watches. The SE 3 misses some meaningful upgrades. ECG updates, Blood Oxygen monitoring, Hypertension Detection, and Emergency SOS via satellite, a feature most used during outdoor, off-grid excursions, are not available on the watch. These higher-end features are useful for people digging into the weeds of their health, intent on tracking certain metrics to stay on top of their conditions. Also: The Apple Watch Series 11 is one feature away from making me ditch my Oura RingBut for the younger smartwatch user looking to use the device to track workouts, sleep, their menstrual cycle, and respond to the odd text every once in a while, these high-end features are passable for the great value SE 3 offers.While its competitors reveal smartwatches with starting prices in the $350 range, the SE 3 proves that Apple can make rivaling, useful devices that are $100 less. Who shouldn't buy the SE 3?If you have trouble reading and interacting with a small display, I'd recommend Apple's massive Ultra 3 display or its Series 11 over the SE 3. Texting using voice-to-text or the drawing feature in place of the keyboard could get annoying for some users. Some people use their smartwatches as standalone phones while they're out and about, but I wouldn't recommend the SE 3 as one. If you've got a bad habit of letting your devices die out before recharging, you might have trouble with the 18-hour battery life. It might be less competitive than the Series 11's 24 hours, especially if you're using the watch to sleep track.  ZDNET's buying adviceThe Apple Watch SE 3 is the underdog that few expected Apple to announce at its annual hardware launch. It doesn't have the advanced hardware that its siblings boast. It lacks some of the hotter features of the Apple Watch Series 11 or Apple Watch Ultra 3, like Hypertension Detection or Satellite Connectivity, but it's shaping up to be a good value for smartwatch-curious consumers. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice now
I compared the best smartwatches from Samsung and Apple - here's how the Watch Series 11 wins
I tried the Apple Watch Series 11, Watch Ultra 3, and SE - what the keynote didn't tell you
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use