Elise Jesse, Author at Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Elise Jesse
Cincinnati, OH
School: Mount Saint Joseph University
Expertise: Baking; Cocktails; Gardening; Health & Wellness
Follow:
Elise Jesse
8 years in local television as a sports reporter and 5 years as a writer for Sports Illustrated covering the NFL with an emphasis on the Cincinnati Bengals
Recipient of an Ohio Valley Emmy Award in broadcast journalism
Creator of @ejscookin, a FoodTok account with almost 90K followers
Experience
Elise is a home chef, recipe developer and food influencer. She enjoys experimenting with different flavors and techniques and sharing the results with her thousands (and thousands) of followers on TikTok and Instagram.
Her cooking experience spans decades, beginning in her Grandma Jan's kitchen, where she watched in awe as everyday meals became events complete with individual desserts. Elise helped her mother re-create recipes from Taste of Home in the '80s and '90s, and now she takes pride in sharing the joy of cooking with her own family.
Outside Taste of Home, Elise is chasing after her young daughter and son and attending University of Cincinnati basketball games in support of her husband. You can also find her tending to the family's "pizza garden" or watching '90s movies.
Education
Mount Saint Joseph University, bachelor's in psychology with a minor in communication studies
Taste of Home Editorial Policies
Taste of Home, a Trusted Media Brand, has been a reliable source for recipes, cooking tips and entertaining advice for more than 30 years. Every month, our content inspires well over 20 million home cooks to get creative in the kitchen. Each one of our 40 thousand recipes has gone through a rigorous testing and approval process to ensure we’re sharing the very best. Every snack, ingredient and product we recommend is tested by our team of culinary experts and professional product testers—the best of the best earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval. Learn more about Taste of Home and our Test Kitchen and editorial teams.
Articles & Recipes
Elise Jesse’s White Chicken Chili Nachos Get ready to meet your new game-day obsession! These white chicken chili nachos are fully loaded and capture everything you love about the cozy, slow-simmered flavor of white chicken chili, but in a convenient nacho form. The chili is piled high on crispy tortilla chips, smothered in melty cheese and finished with all the fixings: fresh jalapenos, sour cream and cilantro. It's comfort food with a crunch—bold, messy and made to share. —Elise Jesse, Cincinnati, Ohio
Elise Jesse’s Maple Dijon Salmon Looking for a quick, healthy, flavorful dinner with minimal cleanup? This maple Dijon salmon (or "pink steak" as my kids call it) with green beans is your perfect one-pan solution. Tender salmon fillets are topped with a sweet and tangy maple-Dijon glaze and baked alongside crisp-tender green beans, making for a delicious meal that requires less than 15
minutes of hands-on time. It’s my go-to for busy weeknights when I want something tasty, I don’t want to clean up a big mess, and I want to avoid the dinner plate struggle with the kids. —Elise Jesse, Cincinnati, Ohio
Elise Jesse’s Chimichurri This bright and zesty chimichurri packs a punch of fresh flavor. Made with chile peppers, parsley, oregano and cilantro, it’s a bold, herbaceous sauce that instantly elevates anything it touches. Drizzle it over grilled meats, veggies or even roasted potatoes for the ultimate flavor boost—you’ll never go back to plain condiments again. —Elise Jesse, Cincinnati, Ohio
More Articles
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box