Nectar Mattress Review 2024 - Our Honest Review - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Nectar Mattress Review: A Luxuriously Comfortable Memory Foam Bed for Those Looking to Save Money If you sleep on your back or stomach, you might want to consider the Nectar mattress as your next big upgrade.
Written by
McKenzie Dillon
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Mar 27, 2025
McKenzie Dillon Writer McKenzie, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been writing sleep content in the wellness space for over four years. After earning her certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, she has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest.
Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, McKenzie has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. McKenzie has also been a guest on multiple radio shows including WGN Chicago as a sleep expert and contributed sleep advice to over 50 different websites. Expertise Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach, Bachelor of English.
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1,664 at Nectar
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1664
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$1,664 at Nectar
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on March 27, 2025 at 9:11 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
McKenzie Dillon
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
McKenzie Dillon Writer McKenzie, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been writing sleep content in the wellness space for over four years. After earning her certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, she has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest.
Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, McKenzie has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. McKenzie has also been a guest on multiple radio shows including WGN Chicago as a sleep expert and contributed sleep advice to over 50 different websites. Expertise Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach, Bachelor of English.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 7.5 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Back sleeper
Combo sleeper
Stomach sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
9
/10
Policies
8.5
/10
Durability
7
/10
Features
7
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Affordable for people on a budget
Fans of true memory foam will love the material
Slightly firm for a back or stomach sleeper
Cons
Not quite supportive enough for people over 230 pounds in the long-term
May cause resistance for a combination sleeper
Not soft enough for a side sleeper
Table of Contents
Nectar Mattress Review: A Luxuriously Comfortable Memory Foam Bed for Those Looking to Save Money
First impressions of the Nectar mattress
Video: Nectar mattress review
Nectar mattress firmness and feel
Nectar mattress construction
Nectar mattress performance
Who is the Nectar mattress best for?
Nectar shipping, sleep trial and warranty
The final verdict on the Nectar mattress
Other mattresses from Nectar
How does Nectar compare to other mattresses?
Best lists featuring Nectar
A recent CNET survey confirmed what we had always suspected: People are willing to spend the big bucks -- up to $1,000 -- in order to get a good night's sleep. It's a good thing, too, because Nectar Sleep is well worth your money. A well-known bed-in-a-box company whose mattresses are now available in stores, Nectar's options are pretty vast with three models available in memory foam or hybrid options: Nectar Classic, Nectar Premier and Nectar Luxe.If you have a preference for a firmer sleep surface, then a memory foam bed can make a big difference and even enhance your sleep quality. Read on to explore our CNET expert insights on the Nectar mattress and see if it's the right fit for you.
Editor's Note:
The Nectar Mattress has been discontinued. For the most comparable bed in the remodeled Nectar lineup, check out our Nectar Classic mattress review. We also recommend checking out our Bear Original mattress review for a similar alternative to the Nectar Mattress.
Jon Gomez/CNETFirst impressions of the Nectar mattressSome beds have a tiny trace of memory foam that's hardly noticeable. This is not the case with the Nectar bed. If there was a picture under "memory foam" in the dictionary, it could be an image of my handprint lingering in the top layer of this mattress. It reminds me of the Tempur-Pedic mattress my parents have in their bedroom. I appreciate the quilt-like detail on its cover, which gives it a more luxurious look. It'll end up being covered with sheets, but at least I know how pretty it looks underneath. If you love the feel of memory foam or seek a good balance of support and pressure relief, the Nectar mattress is a good choice. Video: Nectar mattress reviewWatch CNET senior video producer Owen Poole review the Nectar mattress.Nectar Memory Foam Mattress
$649 at Nectar Sleep
Nectar mattress firmness and feelWhat does Nectar feel like? The Nectar bed is a true memory foam mattress. I stayed on top of the memory foam for a few moments when I first laid on it, and then I slowly began to sink into it. It clings around your curves and makes a little you-shaped cocoon. It feels cozy if you like that nestled-up feel, but it makes it a little harder to switch sleeping positions. Since this memory foam is far from bouncy, you'll have to allow a few seconds for your body to get snuggled into a new position. People who love memory foam won't mind this feeling, but it's something to keep in mind if you're unfamiliar with the material. How firm is the Nectar mattress? The Nectar mattress used to have a feel that hovered around a six out of 10, but after its update last year, it's a little firmer. I rate it around a true medium-firm or seven out of 10. If you weigh over 230 pounds, however, your experience with the Nectar mattress will likely feel more soft and pressure-relieving. For lightweight sleepers under 145 pounds, it should be firmer than a seven. Generally speaking, the more you weigh, the softer a mattress is going to feel and vice versa. Nectar mattress constructionThere isn't anything super fancy going on with the foam model Nectar mattress. It's a simple but comfortable foam bed. It sits at 11 inches tall and is stacked in three layers:
We took off the Nectar mattress cover to examine its layers. Dillon Lopez/CNET1. This mattress's supportive base layer is a thick slab of dense polyurethane foam, which is essentially standard, basic foam.2. In the middle is what Nectar calls the Adaptive Response Transition Layer. It acts as a neutralizer sandwiched in between the other two layers. It softens up the bed so you don't feel the firm base, but it's firmer than the top comfort layer to keep you more supported.3. The top foam layer is more plush and made with gel memory foam. A gel-like substance is infused into the material to make it sleep more temperature-neutral. This is the layer you can thank for Nectar's memory foam comfort.The cover on the Nectar memory foam mattress is made with Tencel and has a thin layer of gel memory foam quilted into it. It doesn't make the mattress sleep cold, which some might expect based on the language on their website.Nectar mattress performanceMotion isolationIf you're like me and sleep with a partner (your German Shepherd counts, too), motion isolation is an important characteristic. Some beds creak and shake when you or your partner make any kind of movement, and motion transfer is a huge buzzkill when you're trying to get a good night's sleep.
Thanks to the Nectar bed's motion-absorbing foam construction, it's safe to say that it suppresses motion like a charm. It made no noise, and I could hardly tell when my boyfriend was switching positions during the night.
Edge support
Mattress expert Owen Poole testing out the edge support on the Nectar mattress. Dillon Lopez/CNETIf you plan on sharing a full- or queen-size bed with somebody, or maybe your S.O. is a bed-hog, edge support might be an important factor to you. This addresses how supportive the bed's sides are. An extreme example of bad edge support is on an air mattress. If you're pushed to the very edge of a blow-up bed, you'll either feel like you're rolling off the side or you actually will roll off.
The Nectar bed doesn't have the best edge support I've ever experienced, but you don't have a falling sensation when you're near the side. This is pretty typical for a foam mattress. Hybrid mattresses with coils, on the other hand, tend to perform better in this department.
TemperatureYou might get the sense this is a cooling memory foam mattress by reading Nectar's website, but I wouldn't necessarily say it helped me sleep cool. Don't get me wrong, it's nothing like an outdated memory foam bed that retains all your body heat in the center. However, it's not like the GhostBed Luxe or the Cocoon Chill, which are two other memory foam bed-in-a-box mattresses with super-effective cooling tech.
DurabilityThe all-foam Nectar mattress model, the brand's flagship bed, is not going to be as durable as the hybrid mattress. A base layer made with steel coils is going to stand the test of time better than dense foam. The original Nectar mattress should last five to six years, while the Nectar Hybrid should last eight or more. However, the foam Nectar is a little more durable than the 10-inch mattress models because it's a tad thicker. Off-gassing You'll notice a smell omitting from your mattress once you unbox it from its packaging and it expands, but not to worry. This is the norm for most bed-in-a-box mattresses unless they're natural and organic. It's similar to a new car smell in that it's left from the manufacturing and compression process, but it should dissipate in a day or two. Who is the Nectar mattress best for?Now that I've talked about how it feels and how it's built, let me dive into the types of people the Nectar mattress is best suited for.
Sleeping positionConsidering the Nectar bed feels a bit more like a supportive and firm mattress, I think it's best for people whose predominant sleeping position is their back or stomach. The firmness was a little too much for me when I was on my side, but it felt really nice when I was lying flat. If you want a slightly softer Nectar mattress, I'd try out the Nectar Premier.
Firmer mattresses are best suited for stomach and back sleepers as they promote proper spinal alignment.  Zooey Liao/CNETBody type I mentioned how your body weight can influence how a mattress feels, but it should also help you decide the type of mattress you should get. Most all-foam beds are around 10 to 11 inches thick and are perfectly supportive for people who weigh less than 230 pounds. However, if you have a larger body frame, I would recommend a mattress made with coils. They'll be more supportive and your money will go farther in the long-run.
Nectar Mattress
$1,664 at Nectar
Nectar shipping, sleep trial and warranty The Nectar mattress will ship for free to your home and arrive in a cardboard box. If you're new to the whole bed-in-a-box thing, it's kind of fun to watch it unfold and inflate into a full-size bed.
Right out of the box, you'll probably notice a not-so-pleasant smell coming from your new mattress. It's completely typical for bed-in-a-box mattresses to omit this off-gassing smell, and it completely goes away after a couple of days.
If you're like me, you won't buy anything online unless there's a reasonable return policy. Luckily, Nectar gives its customers an entire year to test out its bed.
A lot of all-foam beds come with 10- or 15-year warranties, however, the Nectar is backed by a "Forever Warranty." Conditions apply, but I was still pretty impressed to see this. To me, the Nectar mattress warranty says the company is confident about its product.
The final verdict on the Nectar mattressAfter all is said and done, the Nectar is a very comfortable, basic memory foam mattress. It doesn't have the bells and whistles that might come with a Tempur-Pedic, but it sure does offer a similar pressure-relieving feel.
You might like the Nectar mattress if:You're a fan of slow-responding memory foam, or you're at least open to the feel of itIt's also great for shoppers on a limited budgetThe Nectar is best for individuals who weigh under 230 pounds because it's made with foam instead of steel coilsNectar is best for back and stomach sleepers or combination sleepers who don't often sleep on their sideYou might not like the Nectar mattress if:You want a responsive foam mattress like Casper or an ultra-bouncy bed like the Avocado mattressYou prefer sleeping on your sideIf you weigh over 230 pounds; heavier sleepers would be more accommodated on a supportive hybrid mattressOther mattresses from NectarNectar HybridThe Nectar Hybrid mattress has similar features to the all-foam mattress except it has a strong, 8-inch individually wrapped coil layer in the base of the mattress for extra durability and support. It also goes for a great price compared to other hybrid mattresses, especially if you catch it during a sale (which Nectar is usually running). Nectar Hybrid
$1,664 at Nectar
Nectar PremierThe Nectar Premier mattress is the more premium mattress offering from Nectar. Available in both a foam and hybrid model, the Nectar Premier is thick (13 inches for the foam model), contains a phase-change material for temperature regulation and has a dense memory foam feel that contours around your body's curves. Nectar Premier
$2,165 at Nectar
Nectar Premier CopperThis is the most luxurious mattress from Nectar. It's similar to the Premier model, but it's 14 inches thick and includes copper fibers in the cover to help absorb heat from your body. Although, the Nectar Premier Copper is only available in an all-foam model. Nectar Premier Copper
$1,249 at Nectar
How does Nectar compare to other mattresses? Purple vs. Nectar: Comparing the flagship beds of these two industry leaders is almost like comparing apples to oranges. Other than the fact they are both made without coils, they are pretty different in every other way. The Purple is a little softer than the Nectar, rated around a five out of 10. Purple has a bouncier, more responsive feel, and the material makes you feel like you're weightless. Purple also sleeps cooler than the original Nectar. On the downside, the Purple bed is the more expensive option. Nectar vs. Casper: In the battle between Nectar versus Casper, they are both traditional foam mattresses but have different firmness and feel profiles to make them stand out from one another. Casper has more of a neutral foam feel while Nectar has a prominent memory foam profile. Casper is rated around a five out of 10 on the firmness scale, making it more suitable for side sleepers. It also comes with a zoned support layer to provide targeted pressure relief and support where your body needs it most. Best lists featuring NectarBest Mattress for Stomach SleepersBest Adjustable MattressBest Memory Foam MattressBest King-Size MattressBest Mattress in a BoxNectar mattress FAQs
Hide our expert take
Is the Nectar mattress really worth it?
The Nectar mattress is a dense memory foam bed known for its price value. Unless you're looking for a king or California king, you can snag one for under $1,000. If it's in your budget and you love the hugging, contouring feel of memory foam, it may be worth it to you.
Hide our expert take
Show our expert take
How long does a Nectar mattress last?
An all-foam, memory foam bed around 10 inches thick like the Nectar mattress should last you around seven to nine years if you take care of it properly, That means you have to rotate the bed every three to six months, keep your bedding clean and so forth. However, all beds begin to sag and degrade over long-term use.
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
What are the pros and cons of a Nectar mattress?
The pros of a Nectar mattress include its medium-firm profile, which is great for back and stomach sleepers or people who suffer from back pain. It's also great for people who weigh under 230 pounds, and has a great value. Its cons include its inability to properly support heavier sleepers over the long-term; the dense memory foam can make it hard to switch positions; and it's a little too firm for strict side-sleepers under 150 pounds.
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
How do I return a Nectar mattress?
Nectar offers a lengthy 365-night trial so you have a full year to test out your Nectar mattress. If you realize you don't like it, reach out to customer service, which will walk you through the return process. Once it receives your returned bed, it's donated to charity.
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
Is the Nectar a good mattress for side sleepers?
Unless you're a combination sleeper who occasionally side-sleeps, you might find the Nectar a little firm. It's around a medium-firm on the firmness scale, but side sleepers typically sleep best on medium to soft beds that offer more pressure relief.
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
Do Nectar mattresses sag over time?
Nectar mattresses are durable but, like all mattresses, they sag over time. To improve the lifespan of your mattress, make sure it is supported by a strong foundation and consider adding a good-quality mattress topper.
Show our expert take
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.