Ellie Martin Cliffe, Author at Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Ellie Martin Cliffe
Milwaukee, WI
School: Carroll University
Expertise: Cooking techniques; cleaning & organizing; gardening & plant care; parenting
Follow:
Ellie Martin Cliffe
20 years in food and lifestyle publishing, including 14 years writing and editing for food titles; brands include Taste of Home, Simple & Delicious, Birds & Blooms, The Knot, The Nest, The Bump and Working Mother
Winner, FOLIO's Top Women in Media Award Up & Comer Category, 2020
Radio guest touting Simple & Delicious magazine, various stations, 2012-2015
Winner, Graduate of the Last Decade, Carroll University, 2010
Experience
Ellie has spent two decades writing and editing food and lifestyle content for several well-known publishers. As Taste of Home's content director, she leads the teams of editors and culinary pros who share tasty recipes, cooking tips and entertaining ideas. Since joining Taste of Home in 2010, she has held roles in digital and print, editing cookbooks, curating special interest publications, running magazines, starring in cooking and cleaning videos, working with the Community Cooks, and even handing out cookies and cocoa at local holiday events. Gluten- and dairy-free since 2017, she’s a staff go-to for allergy-friendly foods that actually taste good.
If she's not in her plant-filled office, find Ellie in her family’s urban veggie garden, in the kitchen trying new GF/DF recipes or at a local hockey rink, cheering on her spouse or fifth grader.
Education
Carroll University, bachelor's in communications, journalism emphasis
Taste of Home Editorial Policies
Taste of Home, a Trusted Media Brand, has been a reliable source for recipes, cooking tips and entertaining advice for more than 30 years. Every month, our content inspires well over 20 million home cooks to get creative in the kitchen. Each one of our 40 thousand recipes has gone through a rigorous testing and approval process to ensure we’re sharing the very best. Every snack, ingredient and product we recommend is tested by our team of culinary experts and professional product testers—the best of the best earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval. Learn more about Taste of Home and our Test Kitchen and editorial teams.
Articles & Recipes
50 Plates Across the States, a Culinary Road Trip Taste of Home and Pinterest are partnering on a new video series that celebrates an iconic recipe from every state! See them all here.
120 Cast-Iron Recipes for Winter Winter is the time for your treasured vintage cast-iron skillet to shine. Our cozy recipe collection features cast-iron cooking at its best.
Snackable 2025: The Best Game Day Snack The top game day recipes are going head-to-head during the NFL playoffs, and we need your help to choose the winner! Come back every weekend to vote for your favorite game day apps.
More Articles
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box