The 4 Best Office Chairs, According to Our Testing | Reviews by WirecutterAdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTWirecutterWirecutterSkip To ContentHow can we help?Help me decide on...Show me the research on...How can we help?WirecutterWirecutterLog inAccountHome & GardenVacuums, Cleaning, & Laundry Vacuum Cleaners Vacuum cleaners Upright vacuums Cordless vacuums Robot vacuums Handheld vacuums Hardwood floor vacuums Vacuums for pet hair Car vacuums Mops & Cleaners Wet mops Portable carpet & upholstery cleaners Carpet cleaners Wet/dry vacs Brooms, dustpans, & dust mops Surface cleaners & disinfectants Laundry Washers & dryers Compact washers & dryers Irons Ironing boards Clothing steamers Laundry detergents Stain removersBathroom Toilet Toilets Bidets Toilet papers Toilet brushes Toilet plungers Squatty potties Shower Shower heads Shower curtains Shower caddies Shower mats Bathroom Bathroom scales Bath towels Bath mats Grab barsGarden & Outdoors Gardening & Lawn Garden hoses Hose nozzles Gardening gloves Garden pruners Gifts for gardeners Lawn mowers Robot lawn mowers Reel mowers Sprinklers Smart sprinkler timers Maintenance Leaf blowers Snow blowers Pressure washers Chainsaws String trimmers Snow shovels Wet/dry vacs Patio Patio furniture Outdoor sofas & chairs Patio umbrellas Patio heaters Smokeless fire pits Mosquito repellents for yardsHeating, Cooling, & Air Quality Heating Space heaters Heat pumps Cooling Air conditioners Portable air conditioners Ductless air conditioners Fans Cordless fans Smart thermostats Air Quality Air purifiers Humidifiers Dehumidifiers Home air quality monitors Water Quality Water filter pitchers Under‑sink water filters Faucet‑mounted water filters Water quality test kitsHome & Decor Decor Area rugs Rug pads Removable wallpapers Throw blankets Essential oil diffusers Scented candles Jewelry boxes & organizers Window Treatments Curtains Blackout curtains Blackout shades Furniture Sofas Sleeper sofas Massage chairs Dining tables Lighting Floor lamps Desk lamps Bedside lamps All HomeHome Improvement Tools Drills Multi‑tools Stud finders Screwdrivers Basic toolkits Toolboxes Ladders Storage & Organization Storage containers Shoe racks Hangers Electric LED light bulbs Surge protectors Extension cords Pest Control Roach killers Ant killers Mousetraps Mosquito repellents for yards Wasp & hornet sprays Bug‑killing gearHome Security & Safety Security Systems & Cameras Home security systems Indoor security cameras Outdoor security cameras Doorbell cameras Locks Electronic keypad door locks Smart locks Door locks Safety Basic smoke alarms Smart smoke alarms Fire extinguishers Flashlights Emergency Preparedness Emergency preparedness supplies Emergency weather radios Portable generators All Home Security & SafetyOffice Printers All‑in‑one printers Home printers Laser printers Monitors Monitors 4K monitors 27‑inch monitors Portable monitors Office Essentials Webcams Office headsets Laptop stands Monitor arms Label makers Document Security Paper shredders Fireproof document safes Stationery Pens Notebooks & notepads Planners Office Furniture Standing desks Office chairs Ergonomic seat cushions All OfficeSleep Mattresses Mattresses Mattresses for side sleepers Mattresses for back pain Memory foam mattresses Cheap mattresses Hybrid mattresses Innerspring mattresses Air mattresses Mattress toppers Bedding Sheets Cotton sheets Comforters Duvet covers Pillows Pillows Pillows for side sleepers Memory foam pillows Bedroom Modern bed frames Platform bed frames Nightstands Blankets Weighted blankets White noise machines Alarm clocks Sunrise alarm clocks All SleepKitchenLarge Appliances Fridges Refrigerators French door refrigerators Side‑by‑side refrigerators Garage refrigerators Counter‑depth refrigerators Wine coolers & fridges Freezers Upright freezers Chest freezers Stoves, Ranges, & Ovens Electric stoves & ranges Gas stoves & ranges Slide‑in electric ranges Slide‑in gas ranges High‑end ranges Induction cooktops Wall ovens Dishwashers Dishwashers All Large AppliancesSmall Appliances Small Appliances Microwaves Food processors Toasters Electric kettles Portable induction cooktops Mini fridges Countertop ice makers Stand mixers Juicers Blenders Blenders Personal blenders Immersion blenders Specialty Ice cream makers Soda makers Waffle makers Pizza ovens Air Fryers & Toaster Ovens Air fryers Air fryer toaster ovens Toaster ovens Cookers Rice cookers Pressure cookers Slow cookers All Small AppliancesCooking & Baking Cookware & Bakeware Nonstick pans Cookware sets Stainless steel pans Cast iron skillets Dutch ovens Woks Induction cookware Pizza stones & baking steels Baking sheets Mixing bowls Tools Meat thermometers Cutting boards Kitchen scales Oven mitts & pot holders Vacuum sealers Pepper mills Spatulas Knives Chef's knives Knife sets Steak knife sets Serrated bread knives Paring knives Knife sharpenersCoffee & Tea Coffee Makers Coffee makers Drip coffee makers Single‑serve coffee makers Cheap coffee makers Cold‑brew coffee makers Espresso Machines Espresso machines Nespresso machines Coffee Gear Coffee grinders French presses Pour‑over coffee gear Milk frothers Tea Electric kettles Teas All Coffee & TeaFood & Drinks Pantry Olive oils Instant noodles Canned tomatoes Tinned fish Peanut butters Nut‑free seed butters Potato chips Boxed cake mixes Boxed mac and cheese Refrigerator American cheeses Ketchups Butters BBQ sauces Yogurts Freezer Vegan ice creams Vanilla ice creams Frozen pizzas Drinks Blanco tequilas Vodkas Gins Hard seltzers Nonalcoholic drinks Nonalcoholic wines Wine clubs All Food & DrinksDining, Entertaining, & Grilling Tableware Flatware Dinnerware sets Steak knife sets Drinking glasses Cloth napkins Tablecloths Tapered candles Outdoor dinnerware Wine & Bar Wine glasses Corkscrews Wine coolers & fridges Cocktail barware Dining Tables & Seating Dining tables Folding tables Folding chairs Patio furniture Grilling Gas grills Charcoal grills Pellet smoker grills Portable grills Outdoor griddles Grill tools & accessories All Dining & EntertainingSupplies Storage Food storage containers Dry food storage containers Lunch boxes Cleaning Dish racks Kitchen towels Dish soaps Dishwasher detergents Waste Kitchen trash cans Compost bins Food recyclersHealth & LifestyleFitness Exercise Treadmills Under‑desk treadmills Exercise bikes Rowing machines Adjustable dumbbells Yoga mats Massage guns Gym bags Running headphones Workout headphones Trackers Fitness trackers GPS running watches Bikes & Scooters Hybrid bikes Electric scooters Ebikes Biking Gear Bike helmets Bike lights Bike locks Bike phone mounts Rear bike racks Bike pumps Bike storage ideas Car bike racks All FitnessHealth Medical Blood pressure monitors Thermometers Heating pads Pill boxes Compression socks Over‑the‑counter hearing aids Accessibility & Aging Walkers Medical alert systems Adult diapers Incontinence underwear Grabber tools Mental Health Meditation apps Light therapy lamps All HealthPersonal Care Skin Care & Sunscreen Sunscreens Face sunscreens Moisturizers Body lotions Vitamin C serums Retinols Exfoliants Korean skin care products Facial cleansers Red light devices Hydration Water bottles Travel mugs Dental Electric toothbrushes Water flossers Menstruation Period underwear Menstrual cups & discs Adult & Sex Vibrators Anal toys Condoms Lube Portable vaporizers Cannabis grindersBeauty & Hair Beauty Lip balms Concealers Eyeliners Mascaras Drugstore makeup Makeup brushes Makeup removers Hair Removal & Shaving Electric razors Beard trimmers Pubic hair trimmers Hair clippers Hair Hair dryers Shampoo bars Dry shampoosOutdoors Outdoors Bug repellents Coolers Umbrellas Binoculars Ski goggles Apparel Rain jackets Down jackets UPF clothing Camping Camping tents Sleeping bags Sleeping pads Camping chairs Hiking Hiking boots Hiking socks Trekking poles Filtered water bottles Beach Beach umbrellas & shades Beach bags Beach towels Safety Portable generators Pocket knives Headlamps Hand warmers FlashlightsTravel Luggage Checked luggage Duffel bags Garment bags Underseat luggage & personal‑item bags Carry‑on luggage Hard‑shell carry‑on luggage Carry‑on travel backpacks Travel backpacks Packing Toiletry bags Packing cubes Packable daypacks Gear Travel gear Travel pillows Sleep masks Plug adapters Luggage tagsHobbies Hobbies Pickleball paddles Drones DNA testing kits Telescopes Reading lights Electric scooters Language learning apps Music & Instruments Beginner digital pianos Beginner ukuleles Art & Design 3D printers 3D pens Drawing tablets Sewing machines Colored pencils Soldering irons Photo Photo printers Instant photo printers Online photo printing services Photo book services Digital photo frames Cameras Instant cameras Mirrorless cameras Point‑and‑shoot camerasGames & Puzzles Board & Card Games Board games Two‑player board games Solo board games Beginner board games for adults Strategy board games Kids board games Card games Video Gaming Gaming consoles Handheld gaming consoles VR headsets Gaming laptops Gaming mice Gaming monitors Graphics cards Gaming chairs Lego Lego sets for adults Lego sets for kids Puzzles Speed cubes All Games & PuzzlesPets Dogs Dog leashes Dog harnesses Dog beds Dog crates Dog DNA tests Dog nail grinders Dog jackets & raincoats Cats Cat litters Litter boxes Automatic cat litter boxes Cat litter mats Cat scratchers Cat beds New cat checklist Home Pet cameras Water fountains Automatic feeders All PetsTechElectronics & Networking Networking Wi‑Fi mesh‑networking kits Routers Modems Wi‑Fi extenders Digital Storage External hard drives NAS devices External SSDs Batteries & Charging Portable chargers Lightning cables Portable power stations Rechargeable batteries Uninterruptible power supplies Surge protectors Extension cords Electric vehicle chargers Wireless Charging Wireless chargers Apple charging stations USB‑C USB phone chargers USB‑C cables & adapters USB‑C laptop chargers USB‑C hubs All ElectronicsPhones, Tablets, & Smartwatches Phones Android phones Budget Android phones iPhones iPhone cases iPhone 16 cases iPhone screen protectors Cell phones for older adults Car phone mounts Cell phone plans Tablets Tablets Android tablets iPads iPad keyboard cases iPad Pro keyboard cases iPad Pro cases iPad styluses E‑readers E‑readers Smartwatches For Android phones For iPhonesComputers Laptops Laptops Chromebooks MacBooks Business laptops Laptops for college students Laptops under $500 Computers All‑in‑one computers Mini desktop PCs Monitors Monitors 4k monitors 24‑inch monitors 27‑inch monitors Ultrawide monitors Portable monitors Accessories Wireless mice Security keys Keyboards Keyboards Wireless keyboards Mechanical keyboards Ergonomic keyboards Gaming keyboards Software Password managers VPNs Free VPNsAudio Speakers Bluetooth speakers Portable bluetooth speakers Surround‑sound speakers Computer speakers Outdoor speakers Multiroom wireless speakers Smart speakers Soundbars Headphones Headphones Over‑ear headphones Noise‑cancelling headphones Sleep headphones Bone‑conduction headphones Earbuds Wireless earbuds Wired earbuds Workout earbuds Home Audio Turntables & record players AV receivers Stereo amps & receivers USB audio interfaces All AudioVideo TVs TVs OLED TVs 4K TVs LCD/LED TVs 32‑inch TVs 40‑ to 49‑inch TVs TV wall mounts Gaming TVs Home Theater Streaming devices 4K Blu‑ray players HDMI video transmitters HDTV antennas Soundbars Projectors Projectors Portable mini projectors Budget projectors Projector screens Outdoor projectorsCameras & Photo Cameras Instant cameras Mirrorless cameras Point‑and‑shoot cameras Dash cams Camera Accessories Smartphone Photography iPhone photo lenses Smartphone tripods Smartphone gimbals Photo Holiday photo cards Photo printers Instant photo printers Online photo printing services Photo book services Digital photo framesSmart Home Indoor Plug‑in smart outlets Smart thermostats Smart window shades & blinds Smart LED light bulbs In‑wall smart light switches & dimmers Smart water‑leak detectors Smart smoke alarms Smart locks Smart speakers Outdoor Smart outdoor lighting Smart sprinkler timers Smart garage door openers Security Systems & Cameras Home security systems Outdoor security cameras Indoor security cameras Smart doorbell cameras All Smart HomeBaby & KidPregnancy & Nursing Pregnancy Pregnancy tests Body pillows Nursing & Pumping Breast pumps Wearable breast pumps Pumping bras Nursing bras Nursing pillows Bottles & Formula Baby bottles Bottle warmers Baby formulas All Pregnancy & NursingBaby Sleep Bassinets & co‑sleepers Cribs Crib mattresses Baby monitors Baby swaddles Carry Baby carriers Baby wraps & slings Diapering & Bath Diapers Cloth diapers Diaper pails Diaper bags Baby bathtubs & bath seats Baby care essentials Home Safety Baby‑proofing tools Baby gates Car Seats Infant car seats Convertible car seats Travel car seats Seats Baby bouncers & rockers Baby swings High chairsClothing & Health Clothing Kids pajamas Kids underwear Kids beachwear Kids rain and snow boots Kids sandals Health Kids electric toothbrushes ThermometersSchool & Tech Backpacks Kids backpacks High school & college backpacks Lunch & Hydration Kids lunch boxes Kids water bottles Food thermoses Nonplastic plates and cups School Supplies Pencils for schoolwork Mechanical pencils Pens Notebooks & notepads Planners Kids labels Tech First phones for kids Smartwatches for kids Apps for managing kids' phones Kids tablets Kids headphones All SchoolToys Indoor Toys Lego sets Dolls Kids board games Bath toys Toy subscription boxes Craft subscription boxes Outdoor Toys Scooters Balance bikes First pedal bikes Kids bike helmets Tricycles Collapsible folding wagons Sleds Trampolines All ToysTravel Car Seats Infant car seats Convertible car seats Travel car seats Booster car seats Strollers Strollers Double strollers Jogging strollers Travel strollers Umbrella strollers Wagons Collapsible folding wagons Stroller wagons Travel Kids bike seats Kids travel gearStyleApparel Tops Men’s button‑up shirts Men’s white t‑shirts Women’s white t‑shirts Women's button ups Cashmere sweaters Thermal underwear Pants Men’s jeans Women’s jeans Leggings Rain pants Jackets Rain jackets Down jackets Insulated vests Men's suits Swimwear Women’s swimsuits Kids Kids pajamas Kids underwear All StyleUnderwear & Sleep Underwear Bras Women’s underwear Period underwear Boxer briefs Sleep Robes Pajamas Slippers Sleep masksShoes Boots Winter boots Rain boots Hiking boots Sneakers Running shoes White sneakers Seasonal Sandals Water shoes Ice cleats for shoes Socks Compression socks Hiking socks No‑show socksBags & Accessories Bags Tote bags Laptop tote bags Messenger bags Fanny packs Briefcases Backpacks Laptop backpacks High school & college backpacks Kids backpacks Bag Accessories Slim wallets Accessories Umbrellas Black tights Shapewear Hair ties & clips Glasses Cheap sunglasses Blue‑light blocking glasses Online prescription glassesGiftsGifts for Grown-Ups For Occasions Housewarming gifts Anniversary gifts Retirement gifts Birthday gifts for her Gifts for coworkers Gifts for new moms Bridal shower gifts Flower delivery Gift baskets Photo gifts For Loved Ones Gifts for boyfriends Gifts for girlfriends Gifts for moms Gifts for dads Gifts for grandparents Gifts for someone who has everything Under Budget Gifts under $25 Gifts under $50 Gifts under $100 All Gifts for Grown‑UpsGifts for Kids Ages Younger Than 6 Gifts for infants Gifts for 1‑year‑olds Gifts for 2‑year‑olds Gifts for 3‑year‑olds Gifts for 4‑year‑olds Gifts for 5‑year‑olds Gifts for 6‑year‑olds Ages 7 & Up Gifts for 7‑year‑olds Gifts for 8‑year‑olds Gifts for 9‑year‑olds Gifts for 10‑year‑olds Gifts for tweens Gifts for teens All Gifts for KidsGifts to Give Tech Digital photo frames Instant cameras Instant photo printers Turntables & record players Drones Massage guns VR headsets Karaoke machines 3D pens Games Board games Two‑player board games Board games for kids & families Card games DNA Test Kits DNA testing kits Dog DNA tests Everything Else Smokeless fire pits Mug warmers Smart bird feeders Disposable camerasDeals Deals by Retailer Apple deals Best Buy deals Target deals Walmart dealsPodcastDealsWe independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more›BROWSESections in this articleWhy you should trust usWho this is forHow we picked and testedTop pick: Steelcase GestureRunner-up: Herman Miller Aeron ChairBest balance of comfort and price: Herman Miller Sayl ChairBudget pick: HON Ignition 2.0Other office chairs worth consideringWhat to look forward toThe competitionOfficeOffice furnitureThe Best Office ChairUpdated July 18, 2025Sarah Kobos/NYT WirecutterBy Melanie Pinola and Kaitlyn WellsMany cheap office chairs can make you feel as if you’ve been crammed into a torturous economy seat on a cross-country flight. But quality office chairs give you an upgrade to first class — they’re designed to support your body comfortably for the long haul.We’ve researched dozens of office chairs, interviewed four ergonomics experts, and asked test panelists (with a variety of body types) to sit in deliberation for more than 175 collective hours.Since 2015, we’ve found that the Steelcase Gesture is the best office chair for most people.Everything we recommendTop pickThe best office chairSteelcase GestureThis is one of the most adjustable chairs available — anyone can make it comfortable, regardless of their height or size. And it’s built to last.$1,520 from Steelcase$1,481 from Amazon$1,472 from WayfairRunner-upIconic, comfortable, and more breathableHerman Miller Aeron ChairThis chair has more-limited armrest adjustability than our top pick, but it’s also more breathable and just as comfortable. And it comes in three sizes, so it fits a wider range of body types than most one-size-fits-all chairs.$1,650 from Amazon$1,805 from Herman MillerBest for...Best balance of comfort and priceHerman Miller Sayl ChairThis chair is as supportive and comfortable as many models that are twice the price, but it’s lacking some advanced adjustment features. It’s also the most visually distinctive model we tested.$735 from Herman MillerBudget pickInexpensive but adjustableHON Ignition 2.0This chair — one of the most comfortable we’ve tested — retails for under $500 and has many of the adjustments generally reserved for pricier chairs. But we don’t think it will last as long as our other picks.$477 from Amazon$477 from WayfairTesting notesComfortWe judged office chairs on seat, backrest, and armrest comfort, as well as on seat and arm-height adjustability. Lumbar and back supportA good backrest should support you regardless of the angle you sit at. Durability and qualityIf a chair’s material seems cheap or feels as if it could crack under stress on day one, chances are good that it will be utterly destroyed by day 500. WarrantyWe look for office chairs with at least a five-year warranty (though longer is better) that covers just about anything that breaks. How we testedTop pickThe best office chairSteelcase GestureThis is one of the most adjustable chairs available — anyone can make it comfortable, regardless of their height or size. And it’s built to last.$1,520 from Steelcase$1,481 from Amazon$1,472 from WayfairThe Steelcase Gesture costs more than $1,000, but if you sit for long periods, the expense is well worth it.Across multiple test panels, involving dozens of staffers trying out office chairs, the Gesture has continued to be a favorite since we first recommended it, in 2015.It’s one of the most comfortable, supportive, and durable office chairs we’ve ever tested. Everything has stood the test of time — from the back support to the quality fabric to the dependable adjustment knobs.And of the chairs we tested, the Gesture offers the widest range of fabrics and other finishing options, so you can customize its appearance to your liking.Runner-upIconic, comfortable, and more breathableHerman Miller Aeron ChairThis chair has more-limited armrest adjustability than our top pick, but it’s also more breathable and just as comfortable. And it comes in three sizes, so it fits a wider range of body types than most one-size-fits-all chairs.$1,650 from Amazon$1,805 from Herman MillerThe Herman Miller Aeron Chair is iconic, comfortable, and durable. And if you run hot, the mesh back and seat make it a better option than the Steelcase Gesture.Bottom line: If you mainly want a chair that props you up ergonomically and is comfortable to sit in for long hours of typing at a desk, the Aeron will suit you well.The Aeron’s armrests aren’t as adjustable as the Gesture’s, so this chair is not as versatile for different tasks requiring arm support, such as propping up a tablet to read. But the Aeron is easier to move around and less bulky than the Gesture, and it doesn’t collect as much lint.This chair is well known for its durability, and it comes with a 12-year warranty. If the price seems too high, you can probably find a lightly used Aeron — for a steep discount — at an office-furniture liquidation store.The Aeron comes in three sizes, so we recommend checking the fit guide (PDF) before you order.Best for...Best balance of comfort and priceHerman Miller Sayl ChairThis chair is as supportive and comfortable as many models that are twice the price, but it’s lacking some advanced adjustment features. It’s also the most visually distinctive model we tested.$735 from Herman MillerIf our top picks are out of your desired price range, the Herman Miller Sayl Chair provides similar comfort and durability — for nearly half the price.The Sayl is not as adjustable as the Steelcase Gesture, but it still satisfied test panelists of various sizes and heights.As a high-quality chair with strong lumbar support, the Sayl is a good fit for someone performing standard office work — and its plastic webbed back stays cooler than fabric cushions.This chair looks like no other model. If you’re into the space-age design, the Sayl comes in a range of color options, to make it blend in or stand out.Budget pickInexpensive but adjustableHON Ignition 2.0This chair — one of the most comfortable we’ve tested — retails for under $500 and has many of the adjustments generally reserved for pricier chairs. But we don’t think it will last as long as our other picks.$477 from Amazon$477 from WayfairIf you’re looking for something more affordable than our other picks, the HON Ignition 2.0 is the best inexpensive office chair we’ve tested.It has all of the standard adjustments we like to see in a chair, including seat depth, tilt tension, tilt lock, seat height, and arm height.It’s comfortable for all-day use, with effective, adjustable lumbar support (make sure the product description says “adjustable lumbar” so you get the model with that option).However, this chair has a minimum seat height of 17 inches, so people of below-average height may have difficulty sitting properly with their feet flat on the floor (we recommend a footrest). Also, the Ignition 2.0 isn’t as sturdy as our pricier picks, and we don’t think it will last nearly as long.Back to topThe researchWhy you should trust usWriter Kaitlyn Wells has spent the past decade working in hybrid and remote office environments, and she understands the importance of having a great office chair. While covering Wirecutter’s home-office beat, she’s tested everything from standing desks to printers.Writer Melanie Pinola tested dozens of office chairs, as well as other ergonomic products such as under-desk footrests and laptop stands, for Wirecutter from 2019 to 2024. Prior to joining Wirecutter, she covered technology and productivity for over a dozen years for sites such as Consumer Reports, Lifehacker, PCWorld, and Laptop Magazine.For this guide:We researched dozens of office chairs and scoured manufacturers’ sites for new models to test against our current picks.We consulted with ergonomic experts for advice on what to look for in an office chair.Like all Wirecutter journalists, we review and test products with complete editorial independence. We are never made aware of any business implications of our editorial recommendations.In accordance with Wirecutter standards, all products are returned or donated once testing is complete. (This may involve long-term testing to evaluate whether our picks hold up with long-term use.)Who this is forBuying an office chair is like buying a mattress: If you’re spending a third of your life sitting or lying on an item, it had better support your well-being and not break your back. If you have a full-time desk job, 14,000 hours is the minimum amount of time you’ll spend sitting over the next 10 years. (That’s assuming you sit in a chair for at least 35 hours a week, which you really shouldn’t do.)We now know that any sustained in-chair time can be detrimental to your health, but a bad chair only adds to the problem by putting you in positions that add to long-term risk. If you have a home office, finding a chair that makes your desk time more comfortable and healthful is a worthwhile endeavor. If you sit at a desk for more than six hours a day, investing in an office chair that fits the type of work you do is worth it. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIf you don’t spend that much time sitting in front of a computer, you don’t need the type of ergonomic, adjustability-focused office chair like the ones we recommend here. If you sit down only occasionally to check email or play games, buy the chair you feel most comfortable in or like the look of. Many people are happy to briefly work while sitting on a dining-room chair or a sofa. This guide is for people who work full-time from an office chair.If what you’re looking for is a chair that’s ideal for long sessions of gaming, we have several picks that offer a headrest, footrest, and better reclining in our guide to the best gaming chairs.How we picked and tested
Sarah Kobos/NYT WirecutterBefore each round of testing, we scour manufacturers’ sites to look for any new models, and we comb through older versions of this guide to reevaluate our picks and previous dismissals. We also consult ergonomics experts to get advice on what to look for in an office chair that would best support your body for short or long periods of sitting. We use the following criteria to decide which chairs to test:Comfort: Finding the perfect, most comfortable office chair is a subjective endeavor that also depends on the type of work you do, your body size, and how you sit. Although many office chairs have a 300-pound weight limit, most of our picks have 350- or 400-pound capacities, and in our latest round of testing, our panelists included paid testers who have above-average heights and weights. We evaluated office chairs based on seat, backrest, and armrest comfort. How we felt after we got up from a chair was just as important as how we felt while we were sitting.Lumbar and back support: Because people have different torso lengths and lumbar curvatures, adjustability is key, according to professor Alan Hedge, an ergonomics expert. A good backrest will support you regardless of how you sit.Ease of reclining: Reclining is important for “sustainable sitting,” according to our experts, because you can move your body a bit more while you’re seated.Adjustability: A more-adjustable chair ensures a better fit for a wider range of bodies — and it’s more likely you’ll be happy with the chair you buy. Good chairs offer adjustable seat height, arm height, tilt, and seat depth. The best chairs allow you to customize the tilt distance and the amount of force needed to lean the chair back.Durability and materials: A lot of minor things can go wrong with a chair — the arms could come loose, a knob could crack, or a piece might break off entirely. Cheaper chairs are notorious for developing weird squeaks and creaking sounds over time. Seat cushions in particular can give out quickly, with the cheaper foam leaving you with an office chair that feels saggy. For those who like to move around while working, caster quality is also important.Price: Office chairs below $200 are made with cheaper plastic and metal, tend to have fixed armrests and seat depths, and usually look bland and have inferior warranties. Starting at around $300, chairs are more adjustable and built with high-quality materials. And at $1,000, there are more color and accessory options and even higher-end materials and finer adjustments for lumbar support.Warranty: Though a typical no-name chair might be covered for one or two years, most high-end chairs come with at least a 10-year warranty. We look for office chairs that come with a warranty of at least five years, but preferably longer. Expensive chairs also have warranties that cover just about anything that breaks, whereas the warranties for cheaper chairs don’t cover normal wear and tear.Appearance: We prioritize comfort over appearance, but not everyone will be happy with the bland blacks and grays of most office furniture. We ask our panelists what they think about the aesthetics of each chair they try; we consider fabric choice, color, and other customization options to be a bonus.Based on our conversations with ergonomists, we avoided two types of chairs entirely:Executive-style chairs: Physiotherapist and seating historian Jenny Pynt told us to avoid “executive-style” chairs, those that “force your upper spine, that part between the shoulder blades, forward.” You should choose something that’s supporting your back, not sculpting it.Chairs that lack backrests or have partial backrests: Pynt also warned us against stools and other seats without backrests, at least as full-time accommodations, “because no matter how virtuous you are, you will slump.”In our testing, each panelist evaluates chairs on the above criteria using a modified version of this ergonomic seating evaluation form (PDF) from Cornell University. And each panelist evaluates the chairs on all of the criteria, on a scale from 0 (unacceptable) to 10 (excellent).Testers assess comfort, body support, adjustability, and durability, and they sit in the chairs while typing at computers, playing video games, writing emails, sitting through meetings, and just leaning back to think.We’ve also gathered long-term testing notes on the chairs staffers were using for months in our offices and at home.Top pick: Steelcase Gesture
Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterTop pickThe best office chairSteelcase GestureThis is one of the most adjustable chairs available — anyone can make it comfortable, regardless of their height or size. And it’s built to last.$1,520 from Steelcase$1,481 from Amazon$1,472 from WayfairWith plenty of adjustability for a wide range of body types, the Steelcase Gesture is the best and most comfortable office chair for most people.It’s supremely comfortable. After sitting in various other office chairs during testing, going back to the Gesture was, as one panelist put it, “like going to the spa.”Impressively, the panelists scored the Gesture highest across all of our criteria. And they said that compared with seat cushions on similar chairs, the Gesture’s cushion hit the right balance of firmness and plushness; it was far better than seat cushions on budget chairs, which were almost-like-sitting-on-a-wooden-chair firm.Wirecutter staffers who own the Gesture have confirmed that the cushion, back padding, and armrests are as comfortable after many years of heavy use as they were on day one, with one staffer confirming this to remain true even after nearly a decade of sitting in their chair.It’s versatile, supportive, and packed with features. This chair is comfortable across multiple tasks, as confirmed by our testing panel, which included writers, editors, and photographers with different body types.This chair’s lumbar and back support are on a par with that of other chairs in this price range — in other words, excellent. But the Gesture stands out due to how comfortable it is to recline in and how easy it is to vary your position. The backs on most other chairs tilt when you recline, but the Gesture’s back is designed to flex, as well, since your spine has a different shape when you’re reclining versus when you’re sitting up straight.Our testers agreed that the Gesture’s recline experience was one of the most comfortable among all the chairs we tested. That’s because the Gesture retains the recline angle, so you don’t have to continue pushing back with your feet or your core to maintain that angle (as you must do with most other chairs). When you lean back in the Steelcase Gesture (top), the back of the chair moves and bends with you, but the seat stays relatively flat. When you lean back in the Herman Miller Aeron Chair (bottom), it feels more like you’re sitting in a rocking chair because the seat tilts with you, pulling your feet off the ground. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIt offers more and better adjustments than the competition. The Gesture is easy to maneuver and adjust to exactly the right configuration for your task and body type. You can move the seat depth forward and backward, change tilt tension, adjust how far back the chair can lean, and move the seat up and down.The Gesture is also the only chair we tested with ball-and-socket armrests that you can move into nearly any position. We found the Gesture’s arm support useful when we were playing games, reclining to read, and leaning over a tablet to draw for long hours.The Steelcase Gesture’s arms move in and out with ease. You can also slide them up and down, as well as forward and backward. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterYou can customize the Steelcase Gesture so that it’s comfortable to sit in, regardless of what you’re doing. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterAll of the Steelcase Gesture’s control knobs are located on the chair’s right side and easy to access.
Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterThe Steelcase Gesture’s arms move in and out with ease. You can also slide them up and down, as well as forward and backward. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIt looks good and lasts a long time. Testers appreciated the Gesture’s minimalist appearance, which is great for a professional setting or when you want your home office to feel more professional.Steelcase’s 12-year warranty (PDF) covers everything that typically can go wrong with chairs, including any problems in the pneumatic cylinders (which enable the height adjustment). And in our testing, over years of heavy use, the Gesture has proved sturdy.The Gesture is undeniably expensive. But if you don’t care about getting specific colors (the customized version offers 30 fabric options plus five leather ones), you can often find this chair for less than $500 at office liquidators online or locally. You lose the warranty if you buy the chair used, but the savings may make the trade-off worth it.Flaws but not dealbreakersIt can retain heat. If you run hot, work in an office without air conditioning, or live in a warm part of the world, the Gesture may not be the best chair for you because the foam and fabric don’t breathe well. All of our other picks have mesh backs, which are much more breathable and also less likely to collect lint.The Gesture is not the ergonomic revolution that Steelcase’s marketing materials suggest. Fancy armrests aside, most ergonomic task chairs in the $1,000 to $1,500 range will have similar features and back support. What sets the Gesture apart is that it excels for those who want to recline with little effort, switch tasks throughout the day, or easily make adjustments to fine-tune the fit.It’s heavy. This chair weighs over 70 pounds, which can be annoying if you want to move it around your home office. But that also makes it super sturdy.How the Steelcase Gesture has held upIt has held up incredibly well in terms of parts and materials, especially considering I treat my chair kind of like a sofa. I’m 6-foot-4 and shift my weight around a lot. All of the movements are great and super helpful. Minor criticism: It’s super heavy. Also, the center column sits very close to the floor, meaning there’s not a lot of clearance if you have a thicker rug or need to roll over something on occasion. — Michael Hession, Wirecutter’s director of photography, owner of the Steelcase Gesture since 2020 Michael Hession/NYT WirecutterI sit in the Steelcase Gesture for my full workday and sometimes for hours after to play PC games, and it's held up great under thousands of hours of sitting. In October 2021 — at least 6 years and more than 10,000 hours of sitting — I noticed that the seat felt stiff, especially compared to my partner's comparatively new Gesture. I reached out to customer support to ask for a replacement part, and after sending in a video of the seat's condition, they shipped me a seat replacement for free under the chair's lifetime warranty. The new seat took maybe 5 minutes to install, and it made the whole chair feel brand new. — Kimber Streams, Wirecutter writer, owner of the Steelcase Gesture since 2015 Kimber Streams/NYT WirecutterIt has held up incredibly well in terms of parts and materials, especially considering I treat my chair kind of like a sofa. I’m 6-foot-4 and shift my weight around a lot. All of the movements are great and super helpful. Minor criticism: It’s super heavy. Also, the center column sits very close to the floor, meaning there’s not a lot of clearance if you have a thicker rug or need to roll over something on occasion. — Michael Hession, Wirecutter’s director of photography, owner of the Steelcase Gesture since 2020 Michael Hession/NYT WirecutterRunner-up: Herman Miller Aeron Chair
Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterRunner-upIconic, comfortable, and more breathableHerman Miller Aeron ChairThis chair has more-limited armrest adjustability than our top pick, but it’s also more breathable and just as comfortable. And it comes in three sizes, so it fits a wider range of body types than most one-size-fits-all chairs.$1,650 from Amazon$1,805 from Herman MillerThe Herman Miller Aeron Chair is a well-built, highly adjustable model. And it may be a more comfortable option than the Steelcase Gesture for people who run hot, thanks to its mesh seat and back.Its mesh design is surprisingly supportive. Some of our testers likened using the Aeron to sitting in a hammock, since the springy material almost suspends you as you sit.The mesh seat and back make the Aeron a better option than foam upholstered chairs for those who live in a warm climate or sweat easily.It comes in three sizes to suit different body types. Rather than a one-size-fits-all approach, the Aeron comes in different sizes (PDF), labeled A, B, and C. The sizes roughly correlate to ascending height and weight ranges, and even though you might not find a size that fits you perfectly, you should still look at the size chart and consider what makes sense for you.One of our testers, right on the cusp of sizes B (medium) and C (large) in the chart, found the size B chair far too narrow, and the recline was too easy to push back accidentally. When in doubt, we recommend sizing up. The PostureFit SL option offers two lumbar-support adjustments — lower and upper — so it’s easier to dial in just the right level of support than on most chairs. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIt’s ideal for desk work, and it enforces proper posture. Try to sit with your legs crossed in an Aeron, and you’ll immediately find it uncomfortable. Do so on the Steelcase Gesture, and you might totally forget that your legs are crossed until you stand up. For some people, the Aeron’s forced ergonomics are nice, but others might find the chair to be too prescriptive.To adjust the height of the arms on the Herman Miller Aeron Chair, you have to reach toward the back of the chair. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterYou can slide the pads on the armrests forward and back, as well as angle them in or out. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterTo adjust the height of the arms on the Herman Miller Aeron Chair, you have to reach toward the back of the chair. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIt has a classic look that has stood the test of time. The Aeron has an iconic design, one that has been widely imitated. Our panelists remarked that the gray (called “mineral”) model we tested looked less monolithic than the black version, and they thought it might blend in better in some homes. You can also splurge on options, such as a polished or satin aluminum frame, to spruce it up a little.It has a long warranty and excellent durability, and it’s widely available. The Aeron comes with a 12-year warranty covering all repairs and parts. Many of these parts are easy to replace yourself; unlike the Gesture (which hides its moving parts), the Aeron wears its skeleton proudly. It’s easy to see the exact bolts you need to remove to replace a piece.Compared with the Gesture, the Aeron feels much more durable and harder to break — it’s mostly metal, hard plastic, and mesh.Because the Aeron is so popular, you can often find older or lightly used ones at a substantial discount from office liquidators or even on Craigslist.Flaws but not dealbreakersIt’s not as adjustable as the Gesture, but it’s still more customizable than most chairs. First, the good: The Aeron has most of the ergonomic adjustments we want to see in a high-end chair, including a fully adjustable lumbar-support system and arms that go up and down and angle in and out.However, it falls short of the Gesture in several key ways. The Aeron’s armrests aren’t as adjustable, and reclining isn’t as effortless. You cannot adjust the seat depth, either, and the arm height is a pain to change. This may be especially frustrating to people who switch tasks throughout the day.Its mesh seat might not be for everyone. One Wirecutter staffer who previously owned the Aeron found the chair uncomfortable until he purchased a seat cushion for it, asking himself, “Why do I have a $30 cushion on a $1,000 chair? In the end, the chair was lost in a fire and I will not be replacing it. But I did get another seat cushion.”How the Herman Miller Aeron Chair has held up My husband and I fight over who gets the Aeron instead of the Sayl. It looks just as good as the day we bought it cheap from Craigslist. — Signe Brewster, Wirecutter editor, owner of the Herman Miller Aeron Chair since 2017 Signe Brewster/NYT WirecutterBest balance of comfort and price: Herman Miller Sayl Chair
Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterBest for...Best balance of comfort and priceHerman Miller Sayl ChairThis chair is as supportive and comfortable as many models that are twice the price, but it’s lacking some advanced adjustment features. It’s also the most visually distinctive model we tested.$735 from Herman MillerStarting at well under $1,000, the Herman Miller Sayl Chair is a good compromise between a cheap budget chair and a high-end one.It’s comfortable for all-day sitting. The rubber mesh back moves and stretches with you as you shift into it, and as the day goes on, it provides plenty of support for the S-shaped curve of your spine. Our smaller testers especially liked this chair.You can purchase an optional adjustable lumbar-support control that slides up and down on the back. However, most of our testers found this piece to be unnecessary because the Sayl naturally forces you to sit upright.The seat is upholstered in high-quality fabric, and it has a firm cushion that feels like it will last a long time. But if you prefer a softer, cushier seat, the Steelcase Gesture would be a better option for you. There’s less arm adjustability on Herman Miller’s Sayl Chair than on the Aeron Chair or the Steelcase Gesture. But it’s still enough that most people can find a comfortable fit. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIt stands out in a crowd. The Sayl’s unframed rubber back has an unusual look that catches the eye. (It’s so distinctive-looking that it was even used in The Hunger Games.) You can pick from among several colors for the back mesh, base, and seat fabric.Of course, design is a matter of personal preference. Some panelists loved the “alien/space-age” look of the chair while others hated it. During testing, we referred to the Sayl as the Tron chair. Part of the appeal of the Sayl chair is the back’s unusual design. Kyle Fitzgerald/NYT WirecutterIt has the same durability and long warranty as the Aeron. This chair is made of softer plastics and has less metal than the Aeron, but it comes with the same 12-year warranty and will still hold up over time.We’ve been regularly using Sayl chairs since 2018, and they have generally maintained their smooth adjustments and looks, though the arm movements can be clunky on occasion. In testing, we were concerned about the plastic back ripping, but it has been remarkably sturdy.Flaws but not dealbreakersIt’s not as adjustable as our other picks. The Sayl doesn’t have the less common adjustments you’d get with the Steelcase Gesture. But it does offer the basic ergonomic customization most people need — especially if you get the optional adjustable armrests (which can slide up or down, in or out, or diagonally inward or outward).The Sayl offers tilt tension and distance adjustment, but it takes a few turns of the tension knob before you really notice a change. And one of our size C testers found it was too easy to lean all the way back in this chair.Most people will find that the Sayl’s fixed seat depth (16 inches) supports their thighs well enough. But if you need adjustability, an adjustable-depth option lets you push the seat out to 18 inches (for about $800 more).How the Herman Miller Sayl Chair has held upWe have two Sayls at my house. I like how they look and the fact that they are relatively lightweight. I find them very comfortable, but I have some complaints. Quality control may be lacking. On one chair the wheels just don’t roll very well. The chair has lots of parts that get dusty and are very hard to clean without a vacuum. And a tip: Herman Miller has way more fabric choices than they expose in their online configurator. You can contact customer service and they will send you samples. — Christopher Shea, software engineer at The New York Times, owner of the Herman Miller Sayl Chair since 2022 Christopher Shea/NYT WirecutterI wish it could be raised just an inch higher for proper alignment with my desk, but I solved that with a Purple seat cushion and one of Wirecutter’s under-desk footrests. The whole setup definitely helped my back a lot. The first chair I ordered had some pieces broken in the arm, so I sent a photo to Herman Miller, and they provided a label to send the broken one back and shipped a new one out. It’s been great since! — Marilyn Ong, Wirecutter editor, owner of the Herman Miller Sayl Chair since 2020 Marilyn Ong/NYT WirecutterWe have two Sayls at my house. I like how they look and the fact that they are relatively lightweight. I find them very comfortable, but I have some complaints. Quality control may be lacking. On one chair the wheels just don’t roll very well. The chair has lots of parts that get dusty and are very hard to clean without a vacuum. And a tip: Herman Miller has way more fabric choices than they expose in their online configurator. You can contact customer service and they will send you samples. — Christopher Shea, software engineer at The New York Times, owner of the Herman Miller Sayl Chair since 2022 Christopher Shea/NYT Wirecutter How to clean your office chairHow to Clean Your Office ChairYour home-office chair is likely getting more use than ever before. Here are our most helpful tips on what you can do to keep it clean.Budget pick: HON Ignition 2.0
HONBudget pickInexpensive but adjustableHON Ignition 2.0This chair — one of the most comfortable we’ve tested — retails for under $500 and has many of the adjustments generally reserved for pricier chairs. But we don’t think it will last as long as our other picks.$477 from Amazon$477 from WayfairThe HON Ignition 2.0 is the best budget option we’ve found. It’s comfortable to sit in, and it offers the best lumbar support of any chair we’ve tested under $500.It’s more durable than other chairs at this price. The Ignition 2.0’s materials feel more durable and of a higher quality than those of similarly priced competitors, and it has less wobbly armrests and smoother-rolling casters.It’s the most comfortable budget chair we’ve tested. The seat cushion is thick and soft, and you don’t have to break it in. At the end of a long day, it still feels supportive, unlike too-soft seats that you’d sink into over time.Compared with the back on the Aeron (which has a tight weave that feels like a trampoline for your posterior), the back on the Ignition 2.0 feels more like a camping chair you sink into. And we think the Ignition 2.0’s armrests, which consist of a soft plastic with light cushioning, will last a while.Although the Ignition 2.0 doesn’t compare in overall comfort to the Steelcase Gesture or the Aeron, it at least gets all the basics right.Its lumbar support really works. Most office chairs claim to offer lumbar support, but more often than not it’s nonexistent. The Ignition 2.0’s optional adjustable lumbar support actually works and is noticeable: When our testers moved the back support up or down, it stayed in place and provided extra support where they needed it.It offers lots of other adjustments. You can move the seat depth in and out, change the seat height, and telescope the arms up and down as well as away from or toward your torso.It has stylish, minimalist good looks, and it comes in different materials and sizes. The Ignition 2.0 looks less boxy than competing budget-priced chairs, and it’s available with a gray or black mesh back.HON offers different task chairs in the Ignition series: the mesh-back Ignition 2.0, which we tested; the Ignition, which is a fully upholstered chair; and a Big and Tall Ignition, which supports up to 450 pounds but usually costs more than double the price of the Ignition 2.0.Readers also likeHow to Make Your Cheap Office Chair More ComfortableGreat office chairs aren’t cheap, and not everyone can afford ergonomic perfection. But a few tweaks can make a $50 chair feel nearly as good as a $1,000 one.It’s well built and has a solid warranty. The Ignition 2.0 comes with a limited lifetime warranty that covers defective materials or workmanship. But it doesn’t cover minor parts wearing out (as the Steelcase and Herman Miller warranties do).That said, the Ignition 2.0 seems like it will be a little more durable than most chairs in this price range. The frame is mostly hard, matte plastic, and the casters roll smoothly. And the seat cushion is covered with a thick woven fabric (though it’s obviously less premium, with a looser weave, than that of the Gesture).Flaws but not dealbreakersThe seat arms don’t go down as far as those of our other picks. Despite this shortcoming, we still think the Ignition 2.0 is a solid budget option as many other chairs in this price range provide no armrest adjustments at all (which some of our testers noted as a dealbreaker, after sitting in 10 different chairs).It’s not a great fit if you’re petite. Because of its higher-than-average minimum seat height, we don’t recommend the Ignition 2.0 if you’re petite. One 5-foot-2 tester found it impossible to keep her feet flat on the floor while sitting in the chair at its lowest height. A footrest easily solves that problem, albeit at an added cost.How the HON Ignition 2.0 has held up In general, I find it to be kind of uncomfortable. I’m bony, and I find resting my elbows on the armrests hurts my elbows, and sitting for a while actually bothers my tailbone. I tried to remedy the tailbone thing by getting an [ergonomic seat cushion that isn’t a Wirecutter pick], but it just delays the pain. — Arriana Vasquez, Wirecutter writer, testing the Hon Ignition 2.0 since 2022 Arriana Vasquez/NYT WirecutterIf you don’t have (or don’t want to spend) hundreds for an office chairHow to Buy an Office Chair SecondhandYou can save hundreds of dollars on a high-end office chair if you know where to look and what to look for.Other office chairs worth consideringIf you want a high-end chair, but you don’t have quite the budget for a Steelcase or the Herman Miller Aeron: Consider the ergoCentric tCentric Hybrid.Like the $1,000-plus chairs we recommend, this one (which is designed and built in Canada) has tons of configuration options, comes with a 12-year warranty, and feels made to last.The chair we tested has a wide range of ergonomic adjustments. And it even has some unusual features, such as armrests that can spin 360 degrees, an inflatable lumbar-support cushion, and a built-in adjustable headrest.We don’t love the lateral armrest adjustment: It doesn’t have a lock and thus tends to slip under the hands when you’re standing up from the chair. But you can opt for armrests that just swivel and lift (and save some money in the process).The tCentric Hybrid is generally less expensive than a comparably equipped Steelcase Gesture or Herman Miller Aeron ($998 at this writing). But this chair doesn’t have the Gesture’s cleverly designed recline mechanism or the Aeron’s iconic looks, and ergoCentric lacks the long-standing reputations of those companies.If you want Steelcase’s most attractive ergonomic feature in a less-expensive chair: Check out the Steelcase Karman.This lightweight mesh chair has a design that’s a bit like the Herman Miller Aeron, with its solid frame and scalloped seat. It also boasts the same flexible reclining experience as the Steelcase Gesture, but starts at $1,297 (at this writing), undercutting the Gesture by about $700.It has fewer adjustments overall than the Gesture. You raise or lower the seat, and can get it with height-adjustable or four-way adjustable armrests, as well as optional added lumbar support. For most people, these will be enough. But if you need more, consider our Steelcase or Herman Miller picks.We found it comfortable, cool, and supportive to sit in, though the rubberized seat frame may annoy people who like to sit cross-legged. Like the Aeron, this is a chair that teaches you how to sit properly, whether you like it or not.If you want a mesh chair with a headrest and highly adjustable lumbar support: The Razer Fujin Pro is worth a look.Billed as a “fully adjustable mesh gaming and desk chair” by gaming company Razer, the Fujin Pro can support you for long stints of gameplay or work (or both). Its all-mesh design begs a comparison with the Herman Miller Aeron or the Steelcase Gesture; the Fujin Pro stands out mostly for its included headrest for neck and head support while reclining and height- and depth-adjustable lumbar support.We found it easy to dial the lumbar support inwards or outwards to customize its comfort, and although the armrests don’t have as much range of motion as the Steelcase Gesture, we appreciated the locks on the Fujin Pro to keep the armrests in place. The chair doesn’t offer as snug of a fit as the Aeron, which is a matter of preference, and one panelist (6-foot-6 and over 300 pounds) said the back edge of the seat was uncomfortable for him.The Fujin Pro has a relatively short 5-year warranty for a chair that costs over $1,000.If you want an extra roomy seat and support for up to 400 pounds: Take a look at the Staples Driscott Ergonomic Fabric Managers Big & Tall Chair.This chair’s seat is a couple of inches wider and deeper than our picks and other chairs we’ve tested (it measures 23.6 inches wide by 19.9 inches deep). That made it an instant hit with our testers who are above average in height and weight (for men, average is: 5-foot-9 and 200 pounds; for women: 5-foot-4 and 171 pounds), as well as panelists who said they often like to sit cross-legged at their desks. We found the seat to be plushy and comfortable, although the armrests were not as comfortable as other chairs because of its minimal padding.Adjustments on the chair are minimal as well: the seat and arms go up and down, and the lumbar support has a depth dial that didn’t make any noticeable difference.Like the Steelcase Gesture, the Driscott has a relatively high 400-pound weight capacity. This budget chair also offers a limited 5-year warranty, but note that Staples’ furniture return window is 14 days.If you want a more-stylish budget chair and can live with wiggly armrests: The Branch Ergonomic Chair (starting at $360 at this writing) is another option worth considering.This chair has a thick, well-padded seat, like on the HON Ignition 2.0, has premium design features, including an aluminum base and a few different color options for the frame and seat.But even though we liked this chair’s solid lumbar support, its armrests were wobblier than those on other chairs in its price range.What to look forward toWe plan to test the Branch Ergonomic Chair Pro and the Steelcase Karman with High Back. We’re also looking into chairs designed for petite people, with low minimum heights and short seat depths, from brands such as Steelcase and BTOD.The competitionOffice chairs under $300As part of our ongoing mission to recommend high-quality office chairs at different prices, we have considered a number of chairs under $300 that met our criteria for adjustability (lumbar support, height, seat depth, armrest, and tilt/tension) and that also had a warranty of at least five years.We dismissed the Staples Hyken Mesh Task Chair and the Office Star ProGrid Mesh Manager’s Chair for the lack of seat-depth adjustability. And we eliminated the Staples Kroy Mesh/Fabric Task Chair over concerns about its too-high minimum seat height (over 18 inches).The AmazonBasics Mid-Back Mesh Office Chair is the least expensive model we’ve tested, with fixed armrests and a one-year warranty. Our petite-size testers had difficulty sitting in this chair comfortably and getting full back support because of the seat-pan depth. Others complained about the firm seat and the limited recline. Ultimately, we think you’re better off saving for a more comfortable chair that will last longer.The IKEA Markus was universally reviled by our testing panel. Shorter testers said the high back made them feel like a kid sitting on a throne, while taller testers said the non-adjustable arms were far too low to be comfortable.Office chairs over $300The Branch Verve is a generally comfortable, flexible chair that comes in eye-catching colors like coral pink and sage green. But starting at $599, it costs much more than Branch’s own $359 Ergonomic Chair, which offers a wider range of ergonomic adjustments and can be outfitted with a head rest. We found the seat’s gentle forward slope (which Branch told us is an ergonomic feature) slightly unsettling, since it gave us the vague feeling that we were about to slide off. And we didn’t like the arm design, either. If you pull on an arm (say, to move the chair), it easily extends to its full height. The problem is, this is also how you unlock the arm, which sends it sliding all the way back down to its lowest position. For us, at least, that meant we were constantly readjusting the arms to our preferred height.We had a similar experience comparing the HON Nucleus to its sibling and our budget pick, the HON Ignition 2.0 — the more expensive Nucleus didn’t seem to offer significant advantages over the Ignition 2.0 except for coming in a couple of pleasant, neutral colorways. The Nucleus’s foam seat sits on a mesh-covered frame, which the company says offers a hammock-like feel; it’s comfortable to sit in especially if you like firmer support, but we didn’t experience the implied suspended bliss of the seat design.The HON Convergence’s seat is too squishy, with thin fabric, and its mid- to upper-back support was not as good as that of the HON Ignition 2.0.The HON Ignition 2.0 Big & Tall Task Chair came with a missing chair lift cylinder, so we were unable to test it.We found the FlexiSpot C7’s seat comfortable, but the chair was more difficult to adjust than our picks, its protruding lumbar support section was awkward to sit against, the fold-out footrest felt flimsy, and the chair rolled everywhere on its own while we were sitting in it.The X-Chair X3 ATR Management Chair with Elemax has a lot of interesting-sounding features, but it’s just an okay chair. The backrest and lumbar support didn’t adjust high enough, and they were prone to slipping out of position. There’s a free kit that allows users to screw the lumbar support in place (video), but this seems like a less-than-ideal solution for a chair that’s nearly $1,000. Testers also found that the dual-mode massage function didn’t work very well.The Herman Miller Cosm Chair cradles your upper back, especially when you push into it, and the seat is quite springy. Sarah Kobos/NYT WirecutterThe Steelcase Silq also attempts to conform to your body, but it’s not as well padded as the Gesture. And in the Silq, it’s difficult to lean back more than a few degrees. Sarah Kobos/NYT WirecutterThe Herman Miller Cosm Chair cradles your upper back, especially when you push into it, and the seat is quite springy. Sarah Kobos/NYT WirecutterThe Herman Miller Cosm Chair (available in low-, mid-, and high-back versions) is designed to shift and move with you. It costs about the same as the Aeron, and our panelists scored it well for comfort, back support, ease of reclining, and overall appearance. But in all those categories, the Aeron still edged out the Cosm by a hair.The Steelcase Silq’s design philosophy is similar to that of the Herman Miller Cosm. But we found the Silq to be less comfortable than other, comparable chairs to sit in for long periods of time. One size C tester found that the Silq pushed them forward in an uncomfortable way and that the armrests dug into them.Humanscale’s Freedom Task Chair is compact and offers plenty of finishes, but our panelists rated it just average across most of the categories, including comfort, back support, and adjustment ease. It also has a very firm seat.The Autonomous ErgoChair Pro combines a mesh back and a foam seat for a relatively low price, yet it was our panelists’ least favorite chair. One tester said that sitting in it for 90 minutes “felt like an eternity,” and another remarked that this chair might motivate them to get a standing desk. The back pushes you forward more than is natural, the headrest is uncomfortable, and the adjustments are difficult to control.IKEA’s Hattefjäll comes in a variety of colors and has a fun, curvy design. But we found the foam seat too firm and potentially prone to collecting excess dust, lint, and other detritus. Because of its size, this chair is also best suited to petite people.The Steelcase Leap is an excellent chair with ample adjustments and a comfortable back. But most of our testers didn’t find anything about the Leap that separated it from the Steelcase Gesture or the Herman Miller Aeron.The Haworth Fern was the favorite of a couple of testers. But because of its high back, others couldn’t get comfortable in it, no matter how hard they tried.Herman Miller’s Embody Chair is a strange-looking model, yet it’s comfortable, highly adjustable, and high-tech. However, its starting price is even higher than the Gesture’s, and it lacks the Gesture’s arm adjustability and fabric variety.The Herman Miller Mirra 2 Chair is a good office model, and it’s priced comparably to the Aeron. But we think the Aeron is a better chair, with a more comfortable seat and better tilt controls.The Steelcase Amia ranked highly for some testers, but its unremarkable design and limited features keep it from truly excelling.The Steelcase Think is similar to the Amia in that none of our testers found it terrible, yet only one person put it in their top three. It’s inoffensive, and because it has a mesh back, it will be breathable in the heat. However, we think most people should get the similarly priced Gesture instead.None of our testers liked the Steelcase Series 1. They complained that it was too short, the arms were too tall, and it was generally uncomfortable to sit in for longer than a couple of hours at a time.This article was edited by Ben Keough and Erica Ogg.Melanie Pinola, a Wirecutter senior staff writer, died in October 2024. Meet your guidesMelanie PinolaWhat I CoverAs a freelance writer, Melanie Pinola wrote for Lifehacker, Popular Mechanics, ITworld, HowToGeek, PCWorld, and The New York Times. She joined Wirecutter as a writer on the home-office team in 2019. She died in October 2024.Kaitlyn WellsWhat I CoverKaitlyn Wells is a senior staff writer who advocates for greater work flexibility by showing you how to work smarter remotely without losing yourself. Previously, she covered pets and style for Wirecutter. She's never met a pet she didn’t like, although she can’t say the same thing about productivity apps. Her first picture book, A Family Looks Like Love, follows a pup who learns that love, rather than how you look, is what makes a family.Further readingHow to Clean Your Office Chairby Melanie PinolaYour home-office chair is likely getting more use than ever before. Here are our most helpful tips on what you can do to keep it clean.Wirecutter Picks to Help Boost Productivity When Working From Homeby Gabriella DePinhoStreamline your home-office setup, get your desk organized, and find new ways to focus (noise-cancelling headphones for the win) with these picks.The Steelcase Gesture Office Chair Is Built Like a Tank but Feels Like a Spaby Melanie PinolaThis attractive, customizable office chair is like a supportive mattress — it puts in work day after day and if it’s doing its job right, you rarely ever think about it.The TikTok-Famous Pipersong Meditation Chair Is Not a Miracle Cure for Uncomfortable Office Chairsby Annemarie ConteFrom the moment my butt touched the seat of the Pipersong chair, I felt discombobulated. The chair rolls easily, and the footrest swings freely, so it’s hard to get oriented.AdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTEditWirecutterWirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). About WirecutterOur teamStaff demographicsJobs at WirecutterHow to pitchContact The New York TimesSend us feedbackNewsletters© 2025 Wirecutter, Inc., A New York Times CompanyPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceCookie PolicyPartnerships & AdvertisingLicensing & ReprintsRSS