Harvard vs Trump: millions in grant money begin trickling back to scientists
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
19 September 2025
Harvard vs Trump: millions in grant money begin trickling back to scientists
A court ruling declared the Trump administration’s termination of the university’s research funding illegal.
By
Dan Garisto
Dan Garisto
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Activists protest the freezing of Harvard University’s research grants by the administration of US President Donald Trump. Credit: Charles Krupa/AP Photo/Alamy
Update: Soon after Nature posted this story, some US$11 million from the US National Science Foundation began flowing back to Harvard. The Harvard Crimson also reported that $46 million in funds from the US National Institutes of Health are now going to the university. This afternoon, in a joint status update before a judge, both Harvard and the US government asked for more time to “work through implementation issues” of complying fully with the court order.Harvard University scored a victory in court two weeks ago, when a US judge ruled that its research grants should be reinstated and its funding unfrozen. But the administration of Republican President Donald Trump does not yet seem to be fully complying with the court order.Harvard vs Trump: what this epic battle means for scienceIn May, Trump’s team terminated roughly 1,000 grants awarded to Harvard worth more than US$2.8 billion, citing the institution’s alleged failure to protect its students from antisemitism. An internal e-mail sent on 12 September to staff members at Harvard, which is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, noted that the university had “received indications” that most of its grants from the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) — a massive funder of biomedical research — had been restored. But researchers have told Nature that they still aren’t receiving the money.A Harvard spokesperson confirms that “payments have not been restored”, meaning that although the NIH is reactivating grants, the payment system — which operates separately — is still blocked. When asked about the freeze on funding, the NIH declined to comment on the record.The Trump administration has said it will appeal the Harvard court decision. The case is likely to end up before the US Supreme Court, says David Super, a specialist in administrative law at Georgetown University in Washington DC.Hong Kong universities woo Harvard international students targeted by TrumpBut in the meantime, legal scholars have told Nature that the government should, by this point, have unfrozen Harvard’s money. “You should comply with a court order as rapidly as you reasonably could,” Super says.At least one US funding agency seems to be restoring funding, however. On Wednesday, the US National Science Foundation (NSF), which financially supports about 25% of basic US academic research, sent an e-mail informing Harvard that its grants have been reinstated and its funding unfrozen. “You may begin drawing funds,” the e-mail states. (The NSF uses a different payment system from the NIH’s.)One affected researcher is Julia Mundy, a condensed-matter physicist at Harvard who lost a prestigious NSF award for early-career scientists. “This is a positive step,” she says. “But we also still feel a lot of uncertainty, because it doesn’t feel that everything is resolved yet.” Harvard vs TrumpHarvard has been central to the Trump administration’s campaign to reshape US higher education, which it has said is too left-leaning. In April, government officials froze federal funds to the institution — the wealthiest in the world — and demanded, among other things, that it eliminate diversity, equity and inclusion programmes and achieve “viewpoint diversity” in student admissions and the hiring of faculty members.Two students work in the laboratory of Julia Mundy, a condensed-matter physicist at Harvard who studies atomically-thin materials.Credit: Charles BrooksWhen Harvard refused to fully comply, the Trump team terminated the institution’s federal grants across 19 US agencies, alleging that the university allowed “pervasive race discrimination and anti-Semitic harassment”. The school sued, and on 3 September, Massachusetts district court judge Allison Burroughs ruled that the grant terminations were illegal because they violated Harvard’s constitutional right to free speech.“There is, in reality, little connection between the research affected by the grant terminations and antisemitism,” Burroughs, who was appointed by former Democratic president Barack Obama, wrote in her decision. She called the claim of antisemitism a “smokescreen” and cited Trump’s social-media posts, including one saying that Harvard is “hiring almost all woke, Radical Left, idiots and ‘birdbrains’ who are only capable of teaching FAILURE to students”.Court conundrumThe bottleneck in which Harvard’s NIH grants are now held up is a system called Payment Management Services (PMS), which processes requests for withdrawing money from grants and is run by the NIH’s parent agency, the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). When asked why grant payments aren’t flowing, PMS directed Nature to submit a Freedom of Information Act request to the HHS.Harvard researchers devastated as Trump team cuts nearly 1,000 grantsAlthough it can take time to resume payments, it should not take two weeks, Super says. It seems that the government could be violating the court’s order by only partially complying, he adds.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03036-1
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Harvard researchers devastated as Trump team cuts nearly 1,000 grants
Harvard vs Trump: what this epic battle means for science
Hong Kong universities woo Harvard international students targeted by Trump
How Trump’s attack on universities is putting research in peril
Columbia researchers eager to restart science after university’s deal with Trump
How Trump 2.0 is reshaping science
Subjects
Institutions
Funding
Government
Politics
Latest on:
Institutions
Impoundment of funds endangers US investment in science and medical research
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Trump’s chief science adviser faces a storm of criticism: what's next?
News Feature 12 AUG 25
Columbia researchers eager to restart science after university’s deal with Trump
News 29 JUL 25
Funding
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
Impoundment of funds endangers US investment in science and medical research
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
These scientists left the US in Trump’s first term: their tips on taking the leap
News 10 SEP 25
Government
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
News 17 SEP 25
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
News 17 SEP 25
Jobs
postdoctoral researcher
Molecular Mechanisms and Neural Circuits of Fear Memory, Maternal and Social Behavior. A recent PhD in molecular biology / neuroscience.
Piscataway, New Jersey
Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology Organisation: Nature Portfolio  Location: New York or Madrid  Application Deadline: Oc...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing Applicatio...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Department of Cell and Systems Biology University of Miami | Miller School of Medicine, Miami FL   The Department of Cell and Systems Biology at ...
University of Miami, Miami
University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Postdoctoral fellow at Tulane University Neuroscience, Cerebrovascular, Ischemia, Dementia, Traumatic brain injury.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research
Related Articles
Harvard researchers devastated as Trump team cuts nearly 1,000 grants
Harvard vs Trump: what this epic battle means for science
Hong Kong universities woo Harvard international students targeted by Trump
How Trump’s attack on universities is putting research in peril
Columbia researchers eager to restart science after university’s deal with Trump
How Trump 2.0 is reshaping science
Subjects
Institutions
Funding
Government
Politics
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited