Man who died after riding Universal roller coaster loved theme parks, family says, as they seek answers in his death - ABC News
ABC NewsLiveVideoShowsShopInterest Successfully AddedWe'll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? OffOnStream onMan who died after riding Universal roller coaster loved theme parks, family says, as they seek answers in his deathKevin Rodriguez Zavala died from multiple blunt impact injuries, officials said.ByMeredith DelisoSeptember 24, 2025, 3:20 PM2:44Kevin Zavala's parents speak at a press conference about the Universal Orlando Resort roller coaster accident, on Sept. 24, 2025.WFTVThe family of Kevin Rodriguez Zavala, the man who died after riding a roller coaster at Universal's Epic Universe theme park in Florida last week, remembered the 32-year-old as a roller coaster enthusiast, as attorneys for the family said they are conducting an independent investigation into his death.Zavala became unresponsive while riding the new Stardust Racers roller coaster at the Universal Orlando Resort park on Sept. 17, according to a statement from Universal Orlando Resort. He was transported to a hospital, where he was declared dead, park officials said.He died from multiple blunt impact injuries, according to the local medical examiner, who determined the manner of death to be accidental. Kevin Zavala's parents speak at a press conference about the Universal Orlando Resort roller coaster accident, on Sept. 24, 2025.WFTVZavala's family has since retained civil rights attorney Ben Crump, who said they are conducting an independent investigation to get to the "truth" and determine if anything could have prevented his death."We have to know what happened," Crump said during a press briefing in Orlando on Wednesday. "We have to get answers."Zavala's father, Carlos Rodriguez Ortiz, said his son was born with a spinal cord atrophy. He used a wheelchair but was "not under any medical restrictions that would have prevented him" from riding the Stardust Racer, Crump said. Zavala graduated with a bachelor's degree in game design and loved to play video games, his father said. He worked as a job coach at the family's business, which helped people with disabilities get job training and find employment, his father said."We are really proud of him," his father said during the press briefing. "He was incredible."Visitor dies after becoming unresponsive on roller coaster at Universal's Epic UniverseHis mother, Ana Zavala, remembered him as a good son and friend who was an "angel.""I never put any limits on my son, regardless of what condition he had -- he had no limits," she said during the press briefing in remarks translated from Spanish. "He was raised like his siblings, no different. He was completely independent."She said he "loved theme parks" and roller coasters and was excited to go to Universal's Epic Universe with his girlfriend, who got them the tickets and was with him on the ride that night."That last day, on the 17th, he was extremely happy all day," she said.Ben Crump speaks at a press conference about the Universal Orlando Resort roller coaster accident, on Sept. 24, 2025.WFTVHis two siblings remembered Zavala as an amazing brother, as the family called for answers. "I don't want anybody else to feel like I feel right now," his father said. "So please help me to get that done."Paul Grinke, an attorney with Crump's firm, said they will be bringing together multiple experts, including in design, operations, manufacturing and construction, as part of their investigation. Crump also said they want to focus on restraints and will likely be advised by disability experts. "We will find out what happened here, and we'll try to make sure this never happens again, so that another grieving family is not standing in front of you," Grinke said. In this April 10, 2025, file photo, guests ride on the Stardust Racers roller coaster at Epic Universe Theme Park at Universal Resort Orlando, in Orlando, Fla.John Raoux/AP, FILEAn officer who responded to the park around 9:20 p.m. on Sept. 17 for a "medical emergency" saw CPR in progress on Zavala "on the platform directly parallel to the ride tracks" for the roller coaster, according to an incident report released by the Orange County Sheriff's Office.Popular Reads3 students injured in stabbing at Pittsburgh high school: AuthoritiesSep 24, 7:19 PMTravis Decker declared dead before DNA confirmation on remains: US Marshals ServiceSep 24, 2:16 PMThe remarkable life of influencer Zuza Beine, dead at 14Sep 24, 4:33 PMZavala was pronounced dead at a hospital shortly after 10 p.m. that day, according to the incident report.Zavala had ridden roller coasters "many times before without incident," Natalie Jackson, an attorney with Crump's firm, said during the press briefing.He had been sitting at the front of the ride, according to Crump.Based on witness reports, Jackson said they learned that Zavala "suffered repeated head injuries during the ride and was unconscious for the majority" of the ride. Crump said Zavala hit himself against metal on the ride.9-year-old dies at Hersheypark's water park in PennsylvaniaAn internal review found that the ride systems "functioned as intended," the "equipment was intact" during the ride and park employees followed procedures, according to a memo sent in the wake of Zavala's death from Universal Orlando Resort President Karen Irwin to staff.A Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services spokesperson said in a statement to ABC News on Wednesday that the department's current findings' "align with those shared by Universal after monitoring the same tests and reviewing the same information." The state's investigation remains ongoing, the spokesperson said.Theme park guests enjoy a ride on Stardust Racers within Celestial Park at Universal Epic Universe.Patrick Connolly/Orlando Sentinel/Tribune News Service via Getty ImagesThe Orange County Sheriff’s Office is also conducting an investigation into the incident, and Universal is conducting a "comprehensive review process in cooperation with the ride manufacturer of record," Irwin said."Safety is, and always will be, at the forefront of everything we do," she said in the memo.The ride, which opened in May along with the rest of the Epic Universe theme park, reaches speeds of up to 62 mph and heights up to 133 feet. It remains closed in the wake of Zavala's death amid the investigations."We are devastated by this event and extend our sincerest sympathies to the guest's loved ones," Universal Orlando Resort said in a statement last week. "We are fully committed to cooperating with this ongoing investigation." Crump's firm also represented the family of 14-year-old Tyre Sampson, who fell to his death while riding the since-dismantled Orlando FreeFall ride at ICON Park in 2022."It's really shocking to me that two years after Tyre Sampson, that we're here at another tragic death related to an amusement ride," Crump said. "It is troubling. We have to get this right. We can't have a third time. We just can't."Sponsored Content by TaboolaPopular ReadsTravis Decker declared dead before DNA confirmation on remains: US Marshals ServiceSep 24, 2:16 PMMother arrested after toddler dies in bath incident: PoliceSep 24, 2:52 PMThe remarkable life of influencer Zuza Beine, dead at 14Sep 24, 4:33 PM3 students injured in stabbing at Pittsburgh high school: AuthoritiesSep 24, 7:19 PMABC News Live24/7 coverage of breaking news and live eventsABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationContact Us © 2025 ABC News