This official Raspberry Pi keyboard has the computer built inside of it, but you may not like the price
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This official Raspberry Pi keyboard has the computer built inside of it, but you may not like the price
Image Credit: Raspberry Pi
By
Simon Batt
Published 6 hours ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Raspberry Pi 500+: a keyboard PC refresh now on sale for $200.
Upgrades: Gateron KS-33 switches, per-key RGB with RP2040/QMK, M.2 slot, 256GB SSD, 16GB RAM.
At $200, tinkerers might prefer DIY builds — community uptake remains to be seen.
If there's anything I've learned about the Raspberry Pi community, it's that they love to shove hardware into portable shells so they can take their computers anywhere. After all, when the mobo is the size of a credit card at most, why not make it as portable as possible? It seems the Raspberry Pi Foundation has the same idea. It has just revealed a new version of its computer-in-a-keyboard product with the Raspberry Pi 500+. And while some of the improvements are very welcome, some people may not agree with how much it costs.
The Raspberry Pi 500+ is now on sale for $200
Image Credit: Raspberry Pi
If you're getting some deja vu over this announcement, there's a good chance that you remember when the Raspberry Pi 500 was released in December 2024. Well, it hasn't even been a year, and the Foundation has developed a brand new version that addresses some of the former model's shortcomings.
For one, the keyboard now has some proper switches and backlighting. As the Foundation describes in its announcement post:
The most obvious physical difference between Raspberry Pi 500+ and 500 is the keyboard. Each key rests on a Gateron KS-33 Blue switch with a custom RAL 7001 Silver Grey stem, giving a satisfying sound and feel when pressed. Individually addressable RGB LEDs provide programmable backlighting, and with an RP2040 running QMK as the controller, a Doom port to the keyboard itself is surely just a matter of time. Each custom-designed low-profile keycap is spray painted and then laser etched to allow the backlight to shine through the legend.
In the comments for the post, the Foundation states that you can turn off the RGB LEDs if you don't want your Pi to resemble a gaming rig. The 500+ also contains an M.2 socket, a 256GB SSD with the Raspberry Pi OS installed, and 16GB of RAM, which the Foundation notes is "the most memory we’ve ever fitted to a Raspberry Pi product." As such, there's no doubt about it; if you really liked the Raspberry Pi 500, this one will surely feel like a straight upgrade. However, there is one thing that may give people pause. The Raspberry Pi 500+ will set you back about $200, and it makes me think that tinkerers would likely prefer to just make their own computer-in-a-keyboard at home than shell out that much money for a pre-built product, especially if they intend to tweak it beyond the default settings. I suppose we'll just have to see how well the community takes to it.
Raspberry Pi 500+
$200 at The Pi Shop US
Expand
Collapse
Single-Board Computers
Raspberry Pi
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
5 GPU-killing mistakes you're probably making right now
1 day ago
Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
19 hours ago
5 problems you didn't know a CMOS reset could fix
2 days ago
This creepy ESP32 "soul pendant" is the perfect accessory for Halloween
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
34 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
5 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
If you thought Snapdragon X was cool, Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme blows it away
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
4 ways I use Perplexity that have nothing to do with research
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.