Trump's UN speech focuses on 'uncontrolled migration' : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump's UN speech focuses on 'uncontrolled migration' In his U.N. General Assembly speech, President Trump warned world leaders of "uncontrolled migration" and accused the United Nations of contributing to the problem.
World
Trump slams 'uncontrolled migration' — and blames the U.N.
Updated September 23, 20251:22 PM ET
Originally published September 23, 20254:05 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
Franco Ordoñez
President Trump to discuss his foreign policy priorities with world leaders at UNGA
Listen
·
3:57
3:57
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5546864/nx-s1-9463694" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
President Trump speaks during the U.N. General Assembly at the United Nations headquarters on Tuesday in New York City.
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
President Trump warned world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly of "uncontrolled migration" and accused the United Nations of contributing to the problem. "The U.N. has such tremendous potential. I've always said it. It has such tremendous, tremendous potential, but it's not even coming close to living up to that potential," Trump said.
National Security
Devices seized near U.N. meeting could have shut down cellphone networks
In his remarks in New York, Trump also repeated his assertion that the U.S. has entered a "golden age" and discussed the conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza. Trump is finding himself increasingly isolated at the U.N., where there is a growing push to recognize a Palestinian state. Trump said those efforts, notably by the U.K., France and Canada, among others, were a mistake. "The rewards would be too great for Hamas terrorists for their atrocities. This would be a reward for these horrible atrocities," he said, in line with Israel's position.
Sponsor Message
Ahead of Trump, the U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres kicked off the General Assembly Tuesday by saying that nothing can justify the Oct. 7 attacks. He added, "Nothing can justify collective punishment of the Palestinian people or any form of ethnic cleansing. I call once again for a ceasefire, the release of hostages and unhindered humanitarian access."
Ukraine invasion — explained
Trump, in major shift, suggests Ukraine can win back territory long held by Russia
Trump plans to hold meetings later in the day with leaders of the Middle East to discuss Gaza. He will also keep his attention on the conflict in Ukraine. Trump said in his speech that he will be putting pressure on European leaders to stop buying oil from Russia as punishment for its ongoing assault on Ukraine. "They're funding the war against themselves," he said. "Who the hell ever heard of that one?" Trump has increasingly criticized NATO for expecting the U.S. to pressure Russia directly when they could do more themselves. Meanwhile, Russia has been testing European leaders and the alliance with recent incursions into NATO airspace. Trump said he thinks NATO members should shoot down Russian aircraft in such cases. "Yes, I do," he said in answer to a question from a reporter. Asked whether he would back up NATO allies if that happened, Trump said: "Depends on the circumstance, but you know we're very strong toward NATO."
Sponsor Message
The questions came as Trump was meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly. Trump praised Zelenskyy, calling him a "great man" whose country was putting up "one hell of a fight." He said the Russian economy was "crashing." Zelenskyy said he was hoping to see more sanctions on Russia, and said he supported Trump's push to get NATO members to stop buying Russian energy.
President Trump speaks during a bilateral meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the 80th session of the U.N. General Assembly on Tuesday in New York City.
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Beyond the international headlines of the gathering, Trump spoke at length about immigration and the dangers he believes it poses. He pointed fingers at the United Nations — of which he's long been a critic — directly on the topic. "The United Nations is funding an assault on Western countries and their borders," he said. Trump accused the U.N. of spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to support migrants traveling to the U.S., including providing them shelter and transportation.
World, reordering
What to know as U.N. General Assembly opens, marking 80 years, tackling deep crises
"You're doing it because you want to be nice, you want to be politically correct and you're destroying your heritage," Trump said of Europe. Despite his criticism, Trump met with the secretary general after his speech and vowed, "Our country is behind the United Nations 100%." "I may disagree with it sometimes, but I am so behind it," Trump said.
Donald Trump
United Nations
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor