Beef Stew with Biscuits Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Roast Beef and Gravy
Beef 'n' Biscuit Bake
Curried Beef Stew
Beef Potpie with Biscuits
Turkey Biscuit Stew
Beef & Mushroom Braised Stew
Sweet-and-Sour Beef Stew
Hearty Beef & Sweet Potato Stew
Chicken and Sausage Stew
Beef Barley Stew
Hearty Beef Stew
Ground Beef 'n' Biscuits
Beef and Lamb Stew
Chicken Stew over Biscuits
French Beef Stew
Sweet Beef Stew
Creamy Beef with Biscuits
Roast Beef Stew
Biscuit-Topped Beef Casserole
Beef and Biscuit Stew Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesStewsBeef Stews
Beef Stew with Biscuits
Beef and Biscuit Stew Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4 | 1 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 2-3/4 hours Bake: 20 min.
By
Lauren Habermehl
Recipe by Sylvia Sonneborn, York, Pennsylvania
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 07, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This beef stew with biscuits is total comfort in a bowl, with tender beef and veggies held together by a rich gravy, and fluffy golden biscuits on top.
Meat loaf, breaded pork chops and chicken pot pie were just a few of the go-to dinners in my mother’s recipe rotation. But of the many timeless family recipes she cooked, her beef stew with biscuits was always my favorite. The tender pieces of stew meat and a medley of carrots, onions, potatoes and green beans were smothered in a rich homemade gravy and covered in buttery, fluffy biscuits. It’s one meal I still request as an adult when I visit home.
My mother’s stew recipe is just like this one, cooked low and slow on the stovetop in a Dutch oven and then finished in the oven to bake the biscuits. If you’re looking for a shortcut, though, this easy stew recipe can also be prepared in a slow cooker or even in a pressure cooker, ensuring the comforts of home are always within reach.
Ingredients for Beef Stew with Biscuits
Beef stew meat: Beef sold as stew meat typically comes from a tougher cut, often the chuck or round, and benefits from braising or stewing to make it tender. Buy it precut, or cut the beef into chunks yourself.
Flour: Flouring the beef before giving it an initial sear helps give the meat pieces a nice, brown crust, which enhances the flavor and thickens the stew. In fact, it’s one of our top stew tips.
Canola oil: This neutral-flavored oil is perfect for browning the beef.
Bouillon cubes: To make the stew base, dissolve a few bouillon cubes in boiling water. Use your favorite boxed or homemade beef stock if you don’t have bouillon cubes.
Seasonings: The stew is seasoned with salt, pepper and a trio of fresh parsley, thyme and rosemary, which brings color and aromatic flavor.
Vegetables: A blend of homestyle vegetables—starchy potatoes, sweet carrots, crisp green beans and zippy onions—bulks up this beefy biscuit stew.
Cornstarch: Cornstarch mixed with water is best when it comes to thickening sauces, homemade gravy, stews and more.
Biscuit dough: This stew is topped with classic drop biscuits made from flour, baking powder, salt, canola oil, milk and melted butter.
Directions
Step 1: Brown the beef
Coat the cubed beef with flour, shaking off any excess. Heat the oil in an oven-safe Dutch oven over medium heat, then, working in batches, brown the meat on all sides. Remove the beef from the Dutch oven and set it aside.
Step 2: Deglaze the pan
Dissolve the bouillon in boiling water, then add it to the Dutch oven, stirring to loosen the browned bits (aka the fond) from the bottom.
Step 3: Build the stew
Return the beef to the Dutch oven and add the parsley, rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper. Stir to combine, then bring the mixture to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover the pot and simmer the beef until it’s tender, about 1 hour and 30 minutes to 2 hours.
Step 4: Add the vegetables
Add the potatoes, onions, carrots and beans to the Dutch oven and continue to cook until the vegetables are tender, about 30 to 45 minutes longer.
Step 5: Thicken the sauce
In a small dish, mix the cornstarch and cold water. Stir the mixture into the stew and cook until the sauce is thickened and bubbly.
Step 6: Make the biscuit dough
To make the biscuits, combine the flour, baking powder and salt in a large bowl. Stir in the oil and enough milk to form a light, soft dough, mixing just until the dough is combined. Drop it by tablespoonfuls on top of the stew.
Editor’s Tip: One biscuit tip is to be careful about substitutions. Nailing the perfect biscuit dough is an art and a science, so now isn’t the time for reckless improvisation.
Step 7: Bake the beef stew with biscuits
Brush the tops of the biscuits with melted butter, then bake the stew, uncovered, at 350°F for 20 to 30 minutes or until the biscuits are done. If desired, sprinkle the stew with additional fresh herbs just before serving it.
Dan Roberts for Taste of Home
Beef Stew with Biscuits Variations
Add other vegetables: Add parsnips, rutabaga, turnips, mushrooms, leeks or celery. Chopped kale, spinach or Swiss chard are other nice additions.
Pour in the wine: For more depth of flavor, deglaze the Dutch oven with 1/2 cup of red wine before adding the dissolved bouillon broth.
Cut your own beef: If your supermarket doesn’t have packaged stew meat, you can choose another cut of beef and portion it into small cubes (1 to 2 inches). For the best flavor and texture, choose boneless beef chuck roast or boneless short ribs.
Try another protein: If you’d like a break from beef, make a hearty pork stew using pork shoulder or pork tenderloin.
How to Store Beef Stew with Biscuits
Beef stew with biscuits should be stored in airtight food storage containers in the refrigerator. It will last three to four days.
Can you freeze beef stew and biscuits?
To freeze the stew, let it cool completely, then remove the biscuits. Store them in an airtight freezer-safe container. Transfer the cooled stew to a separate food storage container and freeze it for up to three months. Thaw it overnight in the refrigerator before reheating it.
Alternatively, if you’re planning to serve this stew as a make-ahead dinner, make only the stew only and freeze it as directed. Defrost it overnight in the refrigerator, prepare the fresh biscuits and bake them on top of the stew starting with the directions from Step 6.
What’s the best way to reheat beef stew and biscuits?
Our favorite way to reheat beef stew with biscuits is to transfer the stew to a Dutch oven or oven-safe pot. Warm the stew over medium heat until it begins to simmer. Then, transfer the leftover biscuits (or fresh biscuit dough) to the top of the stew and heat them in a 350° oven until the biscuits are cooked through.
You can warm individual portions of this stew with biscuits in the microwave for quick reheating. The biscuits may become soft and will lack that crispy, fresh-baked crust.
Beef Stew with Biscuits Tips
Dan Roberts for Taste of Home
How do you make beef stew with biscuits in a slow cooker?
To make a slow cooker beef vegetable stew with biscuits, brown the beef in a Dutch oven as directed in the recipe. Then transfer the beef to a slow cooker and add the herbs, spices, vegetables, bouillon broth and cornstarch slurry. Stir to combine, then top it with spoonfuls of biscuit dough and cook everything on low for six to eight hours or until the biscuits are fully cooked.
How do you make beef stew with biscuits in an Instant Pot?
Instant Pot beef stew is your one-way meal ticket to comfort food in a flash. To prepare the stew in an Instant Pot, sear the beef in the pressure cooker using the saute setting. Transfer it to a plate, then deglaze the pot with the bouillon broth. Return the beef to the pressure cooker along with the vegetables, herbs and spices.
Lock the lid of your pressure cooker and close its pressure-release valve. Adjust it to pressure-cook on high for 30 minutes. When the cooking cycle ends, let the pressure release naturally for 10 minutes and then carefully quick-release any remaining pressure.
In a small dish, whisk together the cornstarch and water and then stir it into the stew. Switch the Instant Pot to its saute setting and adjust it to low heat. Cook, stirring constantly until the stew thickens, about two minutes.
Meanwhile, mix the biscuit dough and drop spoonfuls onto a parchment-lined sheet pan. Bake the biscuits in a 350º oven for 12 to 15 minutes or until the biscuits are golden brown. Serve the biscuits on top of the stew.
Test Kitchen Approved
Beef and Biscuit Stew
4 | 1 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:10 servings
Prep:2 hours 45 min
Cook:20 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 pounds beef stew meat (1-in. cubes)
All-purpose flour
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 beef bouillon cubes
2 cups boiling water
1 teaspoon each chopped fresh parsley, rosemary and thyme
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
8 small potato, peeled and cut into 1-in. pieces
3 small onions, cut into 1-in. pieces
4 carrots, sliced
1 package (9 ounces) frozen cut green beans, thawed
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 cup cold water
biscuit dough:
2 cups all-purpose flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons canola oil
3/4 to 1 cup 2% milk
Melted butter
Text Ingredients
Directions
Coat cubed beef with flour, shaking off excess. Heat oil in an oven-safe Dutch oven over medium heat; working in batches, brown beef on all sides. Remove beef from Dutch oven and set aside. Dissolve bouillon in boiling water; add to Dutch oven, stirring to loosen browned bits from bottom. Return beef to Dutch oven; add parsley, rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper and stir to combine.
Bring to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer until meat is tender, 1-1/2 to 2 hours. Add the potatoes, onions, carrots and beans; cook until vegetables are tender, 30-45 minutes longer. Mix the cornstarch and cold water; stir into stew and cook until thickened and bubbly.
For biscuits, combine flour, baking powder and salt in a large bowl. Stir in oil and enough milk to form a light, soft dough, mixing just until combined. Drop by tablespoonfuls on top of stew. Brush tops of biscuits with melted butter. Bake, uncovered, at 350° for 20-30 minutes or until the biscuits are done. If desired, sprinkle with additional fresh herbs just before serving.
Nutrition Facts
1 cup: 382 calories, 13g fat (4g saturated fat), 59mg cholesterol, 542mg sodium, 43g carbohydrate (6g sugars, 4g fiber), 23g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This easy-to-prepare dish is a meal in itself. That made it a real favorite of my mother's—she had to cook for nine children! Better yet, my brothers, sisters and I loved it.
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box