Worried about rising tech prices? Try these 5 easy ways to shop smarter right now | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Home
Home & Office
Worried about rising tech prices? Try these 5 easy ways to shop smarter right now
A CNET survey finds nearly nine out of 10 shoppers are worried about rising costs ahead of the holiday season. Here's how you can still find the best deals.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 2:00 a.m. PT
A stocking full of tech.  Kayla Solino/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways A CNET survey finds 87% of holiday shoppers are worried about rising tech prices.Holiday shoppers plan to start early.These four tips can help you shop smarter without the holiday hassle.The holiday season is months away (if you're counting, Christmas is about 14 weeks out) -- but don't be fooled. While it may feel like you've got plenty of time before you need to trim the tree or wrap presents, take this advice from a shopping editor -- you don't.  In fact, if you're looking to save some cash on seasonal sales (like the upcoming October Prime Day event) or grab a new laptop or smartphone, you should start shopping right now. According to a new survey conducted by CNET (ZDNET's sister site), nearly 87% of those planning to shop for tech products this year are worried about rising costs due to tariffs and inflation, and the availability of popular products, like the Nintendo Switch 2. Also: Get ready for the holiday tech splurge: US adults expected to spend $931 on devices, CNET survey findsBut don't worry, there's "snow" time like the present to prepare yourself for holiday shopping, and as ZDNET's deals and shopping editor, I'm here to share all my tips, tricks, and expertise to ensure you're not a reindeer in the headlights this holiday season.  Also: Amazon Prime Day is October 7-8: Everything you need to knowI'm sharing what you need to know about shopping early sales, locating the best deals, and avoiding annoying seasonal surprises, like product shortages and hidden price hikes, so you can save the most money this season and check off every gift on your list -- well before you need to start wrapping them up.  1. Plan your purchases The CNET survey found that the average US shopper plans to spend $931.18 on tech devices this holiday season, while millennials plan to spend the most -- $1,070.51, to be exact.  The best way to maximize that cash? Planning how you're going to use it. While it sounds easy enough, many people skip out on this step. And if you don't plan your purchases, you can easily fall victim to overspending and overshopping, no matter when you start buying for the holidays.  Also: 3 money-saving tricks I use every time I shop online - and you should tooPlanning now also gives shoppers the advantage of shopping early holiday sales, which kick off in October, with confidence. Amazon has already confirmed that its October Prime Day sale returns on Oct. 7 and 8, and other retailers will surely follow suit with their own October sales.  Bonus: Planning your holiday purchases now gives you the most time to shop for the best deal, maximize cashback offers, budget for bigger purchases, and take advantage of product stock while gift buying isn't on everyone's minds.
2. Research your buys  Don't spend your money without having an idea what you're spending it on. Anything worth the cash you worked hard for should be products you feel confident hitting add-to-cart on -- especially tech items. Researching your buys goes hand in hand with planning your purchases, and I highly recommend reading expert-tested reviews (like ours at ZDNET) across a wide range of content before you make a buying decision.  Also: Your Gmail just got a useful new tool for tracking online purchasesWhen it's an option, I also like to check out tech products I'm highly considering in-store, too -- even if I plan to buy the item online later. This gives me time to physically see the item, decide on sizes (for phones, TVs, smartwatches, and more), evaluate color options, and even scan accessory options I may want (or need) to eventually purchase. I like to do this during August and September, when there isn't too much pressure around holiday shopping, and I can evaluate with a clear mind. This also gives you an indicator of what store stock looks like. Are the products you're checking out always sold out or with a few on the shelves? Chances are, if they are scant in stock right now, they will be a more competitive buy the closer to the holidays we get, and it may be an item you don't want to wait to scoop up.  3. Shop early  Here's the deal: the holidays are still several weeks out. But nearly half of shoppers aren't waiting until Cyber Week to holiday shop. In fact, the CNET survey finds shoppers will be buying tech months early to beat potential higher prices and product shortages. Fifty-six percent are expected to shop between August and October, while a quarter plan to shop in November.  I'll be joining these shoppers, and you should too.  While it's true that many popular products go on sale during Cyber Week, not every item sees its best price during this period, and it may not make sense for you to wait that long to shop. In general, I find that shopping early for most items while smartly using other benefits like cash back programs and retailer offers now is easier than cramming the bulk of my shopping into Cyber Week later. Plus, with around 87% of shoppers nervous about tech purchases this season, shopping early may also be wise for your pockets.  Also: Google's new AI shopping tool just changed the way we shop online - here's whyCNET's survey also found that 52% of shoppers are worried about tariffs and rising prices on tech items, while 23% are concerned about availability and shortages. It's possible that coveted tech items -- or older tech items (think last year's Apple Watch models) -- may fly off the shelves first -- the latter for their lower costs and the former for their popularity.  If you're eyeing a tech product, I recommend planning your buy now and scooping it up in the coming weeks. It's unlikely that products like the Nintendo Switch 2 or iPhone 17 series will see significant price drops during the holidays, but it's more likely that the existing stock of those products may sell out. Remember, ports of entry start seeing a peak amount of holiday stock ship into the country between August and October, so retailers are ready to go much earlier than you may think. You may want to wait to buy items for select items to see if prices drop further. If that's the case, hold out on those as long as you're OK with potentially missing out on them during the holiday rush.
4. Use shopping tools  If you're shopping -- particularly online this holiday season -- you'll want to take advantage of free tools that you can use to shop smarter. CNET's survey finds that nearly 89% of shoppers plan to use various strategies to cut holiday shopping costs. Over 59% plan to shop on Black Friday, and 37% of shoppers plan to use comparative shopping between retailers. The best way to do this? Price comparison tools. Also: I've used Rakuten for a year and earned nearly $500 - here's howPrice comparison tools are the easiest way to ensure you're getting a genuine deal. Google Shopping, CamelCamelCamel, Keepa, and other online services can provide easy price comparisons, product price history, and even how tariffs may have affected the price leading up to the year's end. These tools can also be accessed online for free, no matter where you are shopping from. ZDNET will also keep you abreast of all the best legitimate and expert-tested offers, so be sure to keep up with us at ZDNET.com, too.  5. Invest in essentials While planning and researching your buys, it's a great time to keep your eyes peeled for discounts and offers on essential items you purchase throughout the year. While buying a TV or smartphone should require some more detailed research, if you come across daily products like batteries, kitchen and cleaning essentials, health and wellness items, and more at a discount, picking them up through the upcoming holiday sales is always a good idea if you can afford it.  Not only does this let you refill or stock your most used essentials at a cheaper price, but it may help combat rising costs due to inflation and tariffs on household items that may present themselves over the next few months as we head into the new year. During events like October Prime Day, I always stock up on vitamins, batteries, and other personal wellness items, and I never regret doing so. Happy holidays and happy shopping! Looking for more shopping tips? Check out the 3 money-saving tricks I use every time I shop online - and why you should too.ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Top Best Buy deals before Prime Day 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 35+ of our favorite discounts before October
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use