AWS Transform | AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS Transform
Assessment
.NET
Mainframe
VMware
FAQs
More
Products›
Migration and Modernization›
AWS Transform
AWS Transform
The first agentic AI service for transforming .NET, mainframe, and VMware workloads
Get started with AWS Transform
Transform .NET, mainframe, and VMware workloads with agentic AI
AWS Transform is the first agentic AI service developed to accelerate enterprise modernization of .NET, mainframe, and VMware workloads. Built on 19 years of migration experience, it deploys specialized AI agents to automate complex tasks like assessments, code analysis, refactoring, decomposition, dependency mapping, validation, and transformation planning, dramatically reducing project timelines. By executing many tasks in parallel, AWS Transform helps organizations to simultaneously modernize hundreds of applications while maintaining quality and control. Its natural language chat experience and shared workspaces allow cross-organizational and cross-functional teams to collaborate in real time, track progress, and manage transformations from start to finish. The service helps reduce both modernization costs and ongoing maintenance expenses while identifying opportunities to eliminate legacy licensing costs.
Benefits
Accelerate modernization of enterprise workloads
Modernize .NET, mainframe, and VMware applications up to 4x faster with agentic AI–powered automation of analysis, planning, documentation, and transformation tasks.
Deliver complex modernization projects at scale
Scale modernization initiatives, transforming hundreds of applications in parallel. AWS Transform automates high-effort tasks, so teams can  deliver larger, more complex projects with ease.
Reduce legacy licensing, infrastructure, and modernization costs
Reduce legacy infrastructure, licensing, and modernization costs on your path to the cloud. AWS Transform helps removes costly overhead and streamlines modernization with agentic AI.
Modernize with specialized agents trained on AWS expertise
Achieve consistent, reliable modernization using AI agents trained on 19 years of AWS migration experience and deep knowledge across .NET, mainframe, and VMware workloads.
Impact by the numbers
4x
faster .NET application porting from Windows to Linux
80x
faster conversion of VMware network configurations to AWS
Use cases
.NET
AWS Transform for .NET can accelerate large-scale modernization from .NET Framework to cross-platform .NET by up to 4x . With the .NET transformation agent, modernization teams can collaboratively deliver larger and more complex projects with consistency, remove Windows license dependencies to reduce operating costs  by up to 40%, and enhance code quality, performance and security.Learn more
Mainframe
AWS Transform for mainframe can accelerate modernization of IBM z/OS applications from years to months . The specialized mainframe agent streamlines the entire mainframe transformation process —from initial analysis and planning to code refactoring and migration—accelerating modernization timelines and reducing ongoing mainframe costs.Learn more
VMware
AWS Transform for VMware helps you save on VMware licensing costs and drive innovation by modernizing your workloads to Amazon EC2. The VMware agent automates application discovery and dependency mapping, network translation, wave planning, while optimizing Amazon EC2 instance selection to accelerate VMware workload modernization.Learn more
Toyota Motor North America
"Toyota Motor North America faces challenges of updating 40- year-old mainframe applications that support a majority of our supply chain. The transformation capabilities of [AWS Transform] have been a revolutionary solution for us. The powerful documentation, code analysis, and decomposition capabilities provided by AWS give us a clearer understanding of our application landscape. We’re able to generate detailed documentation of hundreds of COBOL modules, including context-aware information and persona-driven insights, in less than a day. [AWS Transform] has done what many said was impossible."
Brian Kursar, Group Vice President, Head of Enterprise Artificial Intelligence
Thomson Reuters
"AWS Transform felt like an extension of our team — constantly learning, optimizing, and helping us move faster."
Matt Dimich, VP, Platform Engineering Enablement, Thomson Reuters
Get started
Blog
Read the AWS Transform Announcement Blog
Read the blog
Guide
Get started with AWS Transform
Explore the user guide
Getting started
Get started in the AWS Transform web experience
Access the web experience
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.