4 problems with Borderlands 3 that Borderlands 4 fixes
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 problems with Borderlands 3 that Borderlands 4 fixes
Source: 2K Games
By
Samarveer Singh
Published 12 hours ago
Gaming has been Samarveer’s greatest passion, and the Literature graduate in him takes immense joy in dissecting games for their themes, messages, and impact. Samarveer holds a deep appreciation of gaming, and considers the platform to be the most immersive and impactful across all media. He can be found engaging with gaming communities online, always ready to debate the finer points of ray tracing or itching to write an 8-page collegiate thesis on any game that impacts him emotionally.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
6 years later, we can all admit that Borderlands 3 wasn't a bad game. In fact, I poured dozens of hours into the game, but I can't pretend that it didn't have its rough edges, or that I didn't have my problems with it. The humor leaned too hard into slapstick, the game itself gave off 'tryhard' vibes, but remove all of that, and the absolute fun element was still intact in the game. Borderlands 4 is well and truly here now, and sure, there are definitely some major performance issues that the game is running into, and a lot of bad marketing with Randy Pitchford saying a lot of things that have left a bad taste in gamers' mouths. However, if we were to look past that for a minute, then Borderlands 4 does reveal itself to be a brilliant sequel that is proof that the studio listening to the fans, and actually fixed a lot of problems we had from the last mainline Borderlands game.
Borderlands 4 offers a much more grounded experience
The tone in Borderlands 3 was all over the place
One of the biggest criticisms of Borderlands 3 was its tone, and this was one criticism that was rightly deserved. The game felt like a circus where every character was competing to shout the loudest punchline over each other. Think Marvel movies after their Joss Whedon-ization, but ten times worse. And for that, the story suffered, and so did the villains, who ended up feeling hollow caricatures rather than threats. It was pretty clear that the void Handsome Jack left was being filled, but rather unsuccessfully. Thankfully, Borderlands 4 seems to learn its lesson, and in my twenty-odd hours with the game so far, the game definitely wears its more grounded tone on its sleeve. Are there some nicely-written and well-placed jokes here and there? Yes, but they aren't overdone, and they never take away from the overall gritty tone of the game. Well, it's about as gritty as a game can be while shooting awfully strange creatures with equally strange weapons. The grimmer world of Kairos was definitely the right call for the game, and the characters manage to strike a balance between irreverence and seriousness.
A new world and new faces were terribly necessary
Pandora and its characters were getting stale by Borderlands 3
By the time Borderlands 3 rolled out in 2019, even the most devoted of us Vault Hunters were definitely feeling the fatigue of Pandora. The planet had become a running gag at that point, and the series really was relying on familiar faces, which meant that the third game really struggled to surprise players. So, moving to a new world of Kairos, with an all-new team of Vault Hunters was absolutely the right call. This is a new world dripping with volcanic ash, dangerous new creatures, and a completely different vibe. This new cast is genuinely so much nicer for the palette, and their dynamics, too, are immensely fun to witness. Instead of leaning on the same old characters we've known for over a decade now, Borderlands 4 finally decided to give us new faces in a fresh new world, and that sort of novelty is exactly what works in the game's favor. It isn't one, but it still feels like a reboot of the series' identity, without ever losing sight of what makes it the unique looter-shooter that it has always been.
A more meaningful and rewarding loot system
The biggest quality-of-life upgrade to the looting system
A problem I discovered I had with Borderlands 3 upon a revisit early last year was how its looting system felt bloated. There were too many drops blurred together, and finding that 'perfect gun' became more about inventory management instead of excitement and love for the game. Thankfully, BL4 has retooled this system with its new licensed parts system. Now, weapons can feature traits from multiple manufacturers, allowing players to expand their creativity. All of this goes towards making loot feel genuinely unique this time around, and sweetening the entire deal are better drop rates and dedicated drops for bosses. My favorite part about the retooled loot system, however, has to be the endgame. The endgame now is actually designed around long-term farming, so not only do I feel like the loot system respects my time, but also my obsession with the grind. This is the kind of major quality-of-life overhaul that makes Borderlands 4 such an incredible sequel, and honestly, I couldn't possibly see myself ever picking up Borderlands 3 ever again after this, now that BL4 exists.
The open-world format was really needed
Traversal in an open-world map changes how we interact with the Borderlands universe
Source: Steam
Another huge frustration with Borderlands 3 that I know many players had been how fragmented the world felt in that game. You'd clear out a zone, hit a loading screen, then get dropped into another sectioned-off area that broke the pacing. It wasn't terrible, but it never felt like a living, breathing world you were exploring. Instead, BL3 felt more like a collection of levels strung together. Borderlands 4, however, ditches that structure for a proper open-world format, and that makes all the difference. Kairos is designed as a seamless, interconnected space, and its huge biomes are a treat for the eyes with their vibrance and different aesthetics. However, at the same time, they bleed into each other perfectly naturally, and thus, progression flows without artificial breaks. Pair that with the improved traversal tools and boy do we have a banger on our hands. The grappling hook helps vertical exploration, the vehicles appear wherever you are and are incredibly versatile, and just the act of moving around in this world feels so rewarding in the moment-to-moment gameplay. This lets you experience the terrain while using your tools creatively and on the fly, while carving your own path through the hostile territory of Kairos. Borderlands 4 has genuinely redefined how you engage with the Borderlands universe through its traversal alone.
Borderlands 4
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Looter Shooter
Action
Adventure
RPG
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
83/100
Critics Rec:
94%
Released
September 12, 2025
ESRB
Mature 17+ / Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Sexual Themes, Strong Language, In-Game Purchases, Users Interact
Developer(s)
Gearbox Software
Publisher(s)
2K
8 Images
Credit: Source: Gearbox SoftwareClose
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Borderlands 4 brings intense action, badass Vault Hunters, and billions of wild and deadly weapons to an all-new planet ruled by a ruthless tyrant.
Crash into Kairos as one of four new Vault Hunters seeking wealth and glory. Wield powerful Action Skills, customize your build with deep skill trees, and dominate enemies with dynamic movement abilities.
Break free from the oppressive Timekeeper, a ruthless dictator who dominates the masses from on high. Now a world-altering catastrophe threatens his perfect Order, unleashing mayhem across the planet.
Ignite a resistance and blast your way through mechanical monstrosities, bloodthirsty bandits, and vicious beasts. Amass an arsenal of death-dealing firepower to wreak havoc as you tear your way across Kairos.
Fight solo or in co-op with up to three other players in this immense sci-fi adventure, packed with free-form combat and exploration, pulse-pounding boss fights, infinitely varied loot drops, and an eclectic cast of unforgettable characters new and old.
Engine
Unreal Engine 5
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Borderlands 3 was great, but lacking
Borderlands 3 gave us guns, laughs, and chaos, but it also showed symptoms of a clearly-aging formula that was begging for reinvention. Thankfully, Borderlands 4 is that reinvention. Gearbox has finally shaken things up in a lot of right ways, and while the third game had me feeling like the series might just be losing its spark, Borderlands 4 is the game that puts this franchise right back on top of the looter-shooter genre, claiming a crown to the throne it created in the first place.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
7 days ago
3 smart ways I use Obsidian to supercharge my productivity
Sep 18, 2025
6 Home Assistant integrations I wish I knew about day one
Sep 18, 2025
I switched from Pi-hole to Unbound DNS, and it's been amazing
Sep 17, 2025
I turned my old 1080p monitor into a killer home lab dashboard
More from our brands
11 Borderlands 4 beginner tips to help get you started
How to Farm Legendaries in Borderlands 4
5 Official Technical Fixes Borderlands 4 Needs The Most
How to unlock all Ultimate Vault Hunter Modes in Borderlands 4
Borderlands 4 Forces Fans To Fall Back in Love With a Classic Game
Borderlands 4 gets the basics right, and that’s all that matters
Things Borderlands Does Better Than Other FPS Games
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
34 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
5 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
The Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O.: World Stage closed beta was more of the same, but with a bigger pool of players
I love my Switch 2, but this pocketable powerhouse is the console I use most
This local AI agent running on a Raspberry Pi 5 is the perfect smart home addition
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.