JPMorgan Chase Fraudster Charlie Javice Says She Can't Fly, Wants Delay - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Law
Charlie Javice says she can't fly, requests 2nd delay in JPMorgan Chase fraud sentencing
By
Laura Italiano
JPMorgan Chase fraud convict Charlie Javice has asked for a second time to delay her Manhattan sentencing, citing an unspecified condition that prevents her from flying.
MEGA/GC Images
2025-09-22T20:09:52Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Charlie Javice wants to delay her September 29 sentencing for defrauding JPMorgan Chase.
Javice, who lives in the Miami area, says she cannot fly to Manhattan but hasn't explained just why.
The judge said Monday he won't OK a delay without "evidence that travel is likely to be injurious."
Charlie Javice, who was convicted in March of defrauding JPMorgan Chase, wants to delay her September 29 sentencing, saying she cannot fly.
The delay request is not sitting well with federal prosecutors and Javice's Manhattan judge. On Monday, they joined in demanding details and supporting evidence.Prosecutors wondered in a letter to the judge if she can travel by train or car. And the judge himself asked why, exactly, can't she fly, denying the delay, at least for now.
"I am unable to grant this request, unless I am presented with evidence that travel is likely to be injurious to Defendant's health," US District Court Alvin K. Hellerstein wrote."I have reserved all day, September 29, 2025, for sentencing," wrote Hellerstein, who presided over Javice's trial and her March conviction for tricking JPMorgan, the largest US bank, into paying $175 million for Frank, her student financial aid website.A delay will interfere with other cases, the judge wrote.
It's the second sentencing delay requested by Javice, 33, who lives in the Miami area.Javice was originally due to be sentenced in late August. That date was pushed to September 29 after Javice asked for another month to prepare her sentencing submissions and deal with a private matter, the description of which was redacted from public filings.Federal prosecutors did not oppose that first delay — but they are opposing this one.
In their letter to the judge, federal prosecutors complained Monday that they remain in the dark over "the specific condition obviating travel to New York."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Defense lawyers have rebuffed their requests for more detail and have not described "the expected length of time" that the travel difficulty may last, prosecutors told the judge Monday.Javice's delay request is dated Thursday and was made public Monday, with heavy redactions and the addition of the judge's denial.
It notes that Javice's probation officer does not oppose the delay, and was signed by defense lawyer Ronald S. Sullivan. He did not immediately respond to a request for comment by Business Insider.Federal prosecutors have recommended that Javice, 33, serve 12 years in prison for lying to JPMorgan about her website's worth.A jury found Javice and co-defendant Olivier Amar gave the bank bogus spreadsheets claiming the Frank website had amassed names and contact data for more than 4 million high school students or recent graduates.
In fact, prosecutors argued, the website had data for fewer than 300,000 users, as the bank found out when it tried to market credit cards and checking accounts to students who did not exist.Javice is hoping for no jail time and zero restitution.In sentencing submissions earlier this month, Javice claimed responsibility for the fraud and filed nearly 300 pages of legal arguments and support letters touting her life of charitable works and her dreams of becoming a mom.
It's her second newsworthy request of the judge since her conviction. In April, she asked permission not to wear an ankle monitor pending sentencing, saying the bulky GPS device would interfere with her ability to teach Pilates. The judge rejected the request.
Recommended video
JPMorgan Chase
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account