Starlink Is Set to Receive Billions in Federal Subsidies but Analysis Says It Can’t Handle the Traffic - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test ISPs
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Starlink Is Set to Receive Billions in Federal Subsidies but Analysis Says It Can’t Handle the Traffic
As Starlink is poised to cash in on BEAD contracts, a new analysis casts doubt on its ability to connect rural America.
Joe Supan Senior Writer Joe Supan is a senior writer for CNET covering home technology, broadband, and moving. Prior to joining CNET, Joe led MyMove's moving coverage and reported on broadband policy, the digital divide, and privacy issues for the broadband marketplace Allconnect. He has been featured as a guest columnist on Broadband Breakfast, and his work has been referenced by the Los Angeles Times, Forbes, National Geographic, Yahoo! Finance and more.
See full bio
Joe Supan
July 30, 2025
8:00 a.m. PT 7 min read
SpaceX
Key takeaways
A new X-Lab analysis indicates Starlink can only support 6.66 households per square mile before speeds drop below FCC broadband minimums (100/20 Mbps).Currently, only 17% of Starlink users currently meet FCC broadband speeds, yet altered BEAD program rules could direct significant federal funds to Starlink as the lowest-cost option.While Starlink greatly improves internet access and quality for rural Americans, experts worry about its long-term viability for widespread broadband expansion.
Starlink has hit a lot of milestones in the past month: It debuted satellite texting on the big three cellphone carriers, passed 2 million subscribers in the US and launched its 500th Falcon 9 rocket.But a new analysis from Penn State University's X-Lab is pouring some cold water on all that good news. Researchers found that Starlink's satellites can handle just 6.66 households per square mile before service starts to dip below minimum broadband speeds set by the Federal Communication Commission. Last year, the FCC raised this standard to 100 megabits per second download, 20Mbps upload and below 100 milliseconds latency. Starlink has been an absolute game changer in rural areas -- the first truly modern internet connection many Americans have ever had -- but it's also never been fast enough to meet the FCC's definition of broadband.  Locating local internet providers
Watch this: Tips for Mounting a Starlink Satellite Dish on Your Home
06:19
With the company set to receive billions of dollars in federal subsidies to add millions of new subscribers, this new analysis suggests we're at risk of stranding rural America with subpar internet for decades to come. "What our math is showing is that there's a problem," Sascha Meinrath, the X-Lab researcher who led the analysis, told CNET. "We're raising some substantial concerns that go to the heart of the largest public expenditure in broadband infrastructure in the nation's history." Locating local internet providers
According to a report from the speed test site Ookla in June, only 17% of Starlink customers are currently getting 100/20Mbps speeds. (Disclosure: Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.)That 100/20Mbps line might not matter very much for Starlink customers who are just happy to finally have an internet connection that can stream Netflix, but it means a lot for the $42.5 billion in federal funds going out to states through the Broadband Equity Access and Deployment program, which was created to expand broadband infrastructure in rural areas. We're betting big that this will work, and yet it's very clear that whoever is betting on Starlink is doing so blindly.
Sascha Meinrath, director of X-Lab at Penn State University
President Donald Trump's Commerce Secretary tweaked BEAD's rules in June to make them more "technology neutral," an update that was viewed by many as a handout to Elon Musk's Starlink. One industry expert I spoke to at the time predicted that more than half of BEAD money would go to Starlink after the changes, up from an expected $4.1 billion under the old rules.The original law favored fiber-optic networks -- long considered the gold standard for broadband connections -- while the new guidance generally requires states to choose the lowest-cost option. However, any internet provider that wants to take BEAD money still has to prove it can supply future customers with 100/20Mbps speeds. One state broadband director who spoke with me on the condition of anonymity said it's largely a guessing game with low-Earth orbit satellite providers like Starlink and Amazon's Project Kuiper. While fiber companies bidding on BEAD projects go through a detailed physical inspection process, states generally have to take Starlink and Amazon's word that they can provide the speeds they say they will. "We're betting big that this will work, and yet it's very clear that whoever is betting on Starlink is doing so blindly. And that is quite disconcerting," Meinrath said.A representative for Starlink did not respond to a request for comment.Can Starlink's speeds keep up with millions of new customers?Starlink has increased speeds and added millions of customers since it launched service in 2020. In Ookla's most recent speed test report, median download speeds nearly doubled from 53.95Mbps in 2022 to 104.71Mbps today.
OoklaStarlink accomplished that by drastically increasing its number of satellites in orbit. At the beginning of 2022, it had 1,761 satellites in the sky; today, that number stands at 7,943, according to Jonathan McDowell, an astronomer who maintains a catalog of space objects. SpaceX, the company that owns Starlink, has said it eventually hopes to have as many as 42,000 satellites in space.While Starlink's latest speed test results (barely) clear the FCC's bar for download speeds, most Starlink subscribers aren't getting the minimum in upload speed. Ookla's data shows median upload speeds of 14.84Mbps, which is well below the 20Mbps required for BEAD money. But many customers may not even notice those slower upload speeds, says Ellis Scherer, a broadband policy analyst at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan science and technology policy research institute."The reality is, everybody's broadband needs and internet usage needs are going to be different," Scherer told CNET. "When you have these arbitrary definitions like 100 over 20, it does lead to a situation where certain technologies are considered not feasible, when, in reality, for the needs of actual broadband consumers, they probably provide more than enough capacity."It's true that most of us download a lot more than we upload. Monthly upstream data consumption is about 48GB for the average US household, compared to 616GB for downstream, according to the latest report from OpenVault. That said, upstream data consumption is growing much faster than downstream, as things like video calls, cloud backups and IoT devices become a more significant part of our home internet mix. Zoom only requires about 3Mbps upload speeds for an HD video call, so you could theoretically hold five different video meetings on one Starlink connection. But researchers have also documented "latency spikes" caused by handoffs to different satellites as they orbit the Earth. "There is a major increase in latency at the point when the user is assigned to a different spacecraft. The worst case in this data set is a shift from 30ms to 80ms," writes Geoff Huston, a scientist who studies internet infrastructure at the Asia Pacific Network Information Centre.  80ms latency isn't ideal -- it'd make for a pretty miserable online gaming experience, for example -- but it still has a good amount of wiggle room under the FCC's 100ms benchmark. It could still be high enough that it keeps Starlink customers from fully participating in a virtual world many of us take for granted. "If I'm online and scrolling through websites, I might not notice that. If I'm trying to do a live telemedicine appointment, it might be really problematic," Meinrath said. But most Starlink customers don't seem to mind too much. In a customer satisfaction survey taken a year ago, Starlink customers reported more outages than customers with fiber internet but were much more satisfied with their service overall. That's because Starlink is so much better than the internet most rural Americans had before -- if they had it at all -- that they're more forgiving of the occasional outage or latency spike. Will Starlink improve in the future?That's the $42.5 billion question. SpaceX owner Elon Musk has a long history of saying Starlink improvements are right around the corner. Its initial application to the FCC in 2016 promised gigabit speeds for every user. Last November, SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell even predicted that speeds of 2 gigabits per second aren't out of the question. But Meinrath says these rely on misleading metrics."I see it again and again in various Starlink documents of how much throughput capacity if you just aggregated all the transceivers on all of the satellites. It's just ludicrous," Meinrath says. "Each of my tires can each go 100 miles per hour. It doesn't mean my car can go 400."We're not talking about capacity for LEOs today. We're talking about capacity for LEOs in four years.
Ellis Scherer, broadband policy analyst at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation
Starlink defenders would argue the company has pulled off an impressive one-two feat: doubling speeds in the US over two years while adding more than 5 million customers globally. If it gets to its stated goal of 42,000 satellites, is it unreasonable to think it could connect a good chunk of the 7 million homes that BEAD dollars are designated for?"We're not talking about capacity for LEOs today. We're talking about capacity for LEOs in four years, which, if the current pace of progress for LEO broadband is any indicator, will be quite a lot more than it is today," Scherer told me. Scherer pointed to a couple of reasons for optimism about Starlink taking on new BEAD users: friendlier FCC rules on the wireless spectrum used by Starlink and newer satellites with 10 times the downstream capacity of the previous generation. Not everyone is so convinced. " 'When the next iteration comes out, it'll all be fixed.' Yeah, I've been hearing this now for five years. It's still not fixed. And in fact, it's consistently not fixed," Meinrath says. What to consider before you sign up for StarlinkStarlink is an excellent internet option in rural areas -- especially if you're in one of the locations that can get the $349 satellite dish free -- but there are some limitations to keep in mind.
The areas in white are currently offering the Standard Kit ($349) free when you commit to one year of service. StarlinkFor one, you'll need a clear view of the sky. Objects like a tree branch, pole or roof can disrupt your connection. Before you order anything, you can use Starlink's app to check for obstructions that may impact your service.The other thing to note is how many other Starlink customers are in your area. At my address in Seattle, for example, there's currently a $1,000 "Demand Surcharge" because of high use in the area. That's up from $500 previously, indicating that Starlink's capacity issues aren't going away anytime soon."What we see again and again is that there's a first mover advantage to joining Starlink. If you're the first individual in your region that joins, you get wonderful service," Meinrath says. "The problem is when you end up with congestion, i.e. other users. Starlink seems to not be able to deliver the claimed or advertised speeds that it says it can deliver. That has been just overwhelmingly documented."If you can get a cable, fiber or 5G home internet provider at your home, I'd go with one of those over Starlink every time. (You can check what's available by entering your address on the FCC's broadband map.) Starlink is your best bet if none of those options are available. Just know that if there are more than six other houses that use it within a square mile, you probably won't technically be getting standard FCC broadband speeds.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.