China Testing Domestic Advanced Chipmaking Tool, Plan for AI Clusters - Slashdot
Slashdot
Stories
Firehose
All
Popular
Polls
Software
Thought Leadership
Submit
Search Slashdot
Login
or
Sign up
Topics:
Devices
Build
Entertainment
Technology
Open Source
Science
YRO
Follow us:
RSS
Facebook
LinkedIn
Twitter
Youtube
Mastodon
BlueskyBluesky
Slashdot is powered by your submissions, so send in your scoop
Nickname:
Password:
Public Terminal
Forgot your password?
Close
binspamdupenotthebestofftopicslownewsdaystalestupid
freshfunnyinsightfulinterestingmaybe
offtopicflamebaittrollredundantoverrated
insightfulinterestinginformativefunnyunderrated
descriptive
typodupeerror
MongoDB Atlas: Multi-cloud, modern database on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. Get access to our most high performance version ever, with faster and easier scaling at lower cost.
×
179351802
submission
Submission
+
-
China Testing Domestic Advanced Chipmaking Tool, Plan for AI Clusters
(ft.com)
Submitted
by
hackingbear
on Thursday September 18, 2025 @02:53PM
hackingbear writes: The Financial Times reported that China's Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) is testing a deep-ultraviolet (DUV) lithography machine made by Yuliangsheng, a Shanghai-based start-up, said two people with knowledge of the development. The ability to produce advanced DUV machines would represent a big victory in China’s ability to overcome US controls on chip exports, reduce reliance on western technology and increase the production capacity of advanced AI processors. China’s DUV effort has challenges to overcome. While the majority of its components in Yuliangsheng’s machine are made domestically, some parts are sourced from abroad, said those with knowledge of the effort. But they added the company was making efforts to make all parts in the country soon.
In a related development, Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei announced Thursday new computing systems for powering artificial intelligence with its in-house Ascend chips despite heavy American sanctions against the company. Huawei announced it would roll out three new versions of its Ascend chips through the end of 2028, with the aim to “double compute” capabilities with each year’s release, and build AI superpods and superclusters from the new chips. According to Huawei, the 950PR, to be released early 2026, will feature 128GB of its in-house HBM delivering up to 1.6 TB/s of bandwidth, while the 950DT increases those figures to 144GB and 4 TB/s, but Huawei hasn’t disclosed how its in-house HBM is manufactured, what packaging is used, or which foundry is producing the chip itself. That is followed by Ascend 960 and 970, to be released in 2027 and 2028 respectively. Its new Atlas 950 supernode would support 8,192 Ascend 950 chips, and that the Atlas 950 SuperCluster would use more than 500,000 chips. A more advanced Atlas 960 version, slated for launch in 2027, would support 15,488 Ascend 960 chips per node. The full supercluster would have more than 1 million Ascend chips, according to Huawei. In a speech Thursday, Eric Xu, rotating chairman of Huawei, claimed that its forthcoming Atlas 950 supernode would deliver 6.7 times more computing power than Nvidia’s NVL144 system, also planned for launch next year, and the Atlas 950 supercluster would have 1.3 times the computing power of Elon Musk’s xAI Colossus supercomputer. China on Monday announced it was extending a probe into Nvidia over alleged monopolistic practices and ordered local tech giants to stop tests and orders of the Nvidia ("castrated by the US government") H20 and RTX Pro 6000D chips.
This discussion was created for logged-in users only.
China Testing Domestic Advanced Chipmaking Tool, Plan for AI Clusters
More
| Reply
Login
China Testing Domestic Advanced Chipmaking Tool, Plan for AI Clusters
Post
Load All Comments
Full
Abbreviated
Hidden
/Sea
Score:
5
4
3
2
1
0
-1
More
| Reply
Login
Nickname:
Password:
Public Terminal
Forgot your password?
Close
Close
Search 0 Comments
Log In/Create an Account
Comments Filter:
All
Insightful
Informative
Interesting
Funny
The Fine Print: The following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
We are not responsible for them in any way.
There may be more comments in this discussion. Without JavaScript enabled, you might want to turn on Classic Discussion System in your preferences instead.
Slashdot Top Deals
Slashdot
Must Log in to Post
Moderate
Moderator Help
Delete
Get more comments
Submit Story
Money is the root of all evil, and man needs roots.
FAQ
Story Archive
Hall of Fame
Advertising
Terms
Privacy Statement
About
Feedback
Mobile View
Blog
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Copyright © 2025 Slashdot Media. All Rights Reserved.
×
Close
Close
Slashdot
Working...