I've been using Raycast on Windows, and I'm finally a believer
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I've been using Raycast on Windows, and I'm finally a believer
By
Adam Conway
Published 11 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
I've been a long-time user of Alfred on my MacBook, and as someone who tried out Raycast before switching to
Alfred, it never really clicked with me. To be honest, it was so long ago that I can't even remember why Alfred fit my workflow more than Raycast did, I just know that it did. However, like Raycast, Alfred was a Mac exclusive, and even though Windows alternatives such as Flow Launcher exist, they never really felt the same.
A good friend of mine is a Raycast user, though, and he was recently telling me how much he loves it. He had been invited to the
Windows beta, and was able to send me an invite to try it, too. I was curious to give it a try, so I installed it, set it up, and he walked me through some of the ways that he uses it for work and what works on Windows.
Since then, I've been hooked. The Windows version isn't as full-fledged as the Mac version, but I've been converted to a Raycast believer, and I'm already using it every day on my Windows PC. The beta is fantastic, and even though the AI features it packs will be locked behind a paid subscription once it launches, I haven't even found a use for them yet.
Raycast on Windows isn't too far from Raycast on Mac
It feels like a similar experience
Raycast on Windows has had quite a long development process so far, but the result is that even the beta application is quite polished and easy to use. Some of the features include the following:
Extensions
Shortcuts
Clipboard history
Calculator
Currency conversion
File search
Quick links
Emoji picker
I've personally been using the currency converter and clipboard history extensively; both naturally fit my workflow, and even the file search can find applications, too. Instead of pressing the Windows key to launch applications, I now press Alt+Space to search.
What's especially incredible about the currency converter is the fact that I can press Alt+Space, type a value in another currency, and immediately get a currency conversion to my local currency. The emoji picker is also significantly faster than the built-in Windows search, and allows you to paste, copy to clipboard, or copy the unicode. The clipboard history is incredible, too. Windows does technically have a clipboard manager built-in, but it feels clunky and limited compared to what Raycast offers. It's a small thing, but it absolutely saves time during the day. As for other features, the built-in calculator is instantly accessible by just typing an equation, and file search feels massively ahead of what Windows offers. All of these little utilities add up to be a better experience than what you get on Windows out of the box. It's not just a hub for launching apps or a simple start menu replacement, and it feels a lot more native than the likes of Flow Launcher or Wox ever have.
Raycast extensions are the best part
The integrations are incredible
Extensions are my favorite feature of Raycast and the sheer number of options are mind-boggling. These are essentially small add-ons that expand what Raycast can do, and the beta for Windows already has quite a few useful ones. Not every extension is supported on Windows, and the extensions store will tell you which ones are macOS only.
Some of the ones I've installed already are the
Home Assistant extension, Obsidian, Google Translate, and GitHub. These are all integrate quite seamlessly with Raycast, and for example, the Home Assistant extension can list all of my buttons, sensors, cameras, automations, and more. It can control them too, so I can quickly use Raycast to turn on or off a light if I want.
The other extensions I installed are great as well. The Obsidian one allows me to search my vault or create a new note, Google Translate, well, translates, and GitHub allows you to search repositories, manage branches, and search discussions. Raycast essentially simplifies everything that you could do with a combination of AutoHotKey and PowerToys, and while it's been a slow development process, it's nice to see it done slowly in a polished way. I've been using it consistently for over a week, and it's been incredibly stable the entire time. The only real downside I've noticed is that many extensions are still macOS only, especially ones I'd want to use. These are ones like the Spotify extension, which I'd love to be able to use on my computer.
Why I'm sticking with Raycast
I might even switch on my Mac
SVG logos in Raycast on macOS
The biggest takeaway for me is that Raycast has finally given me the Alfred-like experience on Windows that I've been missing on my desktop. It's still in beta, and I'm sure the features will evolve while extensions are updated to support the platform, but even without them the platform feels strong enough for daily use. Even when AI tools become part of the paid tier, I doubt I'll feel like I'm missing anything given that I still don't even use them now. Who knows, maybe I'll switch to Raycast on my Mac as well? I've been loving it on Windows, and while I'm not fully set on making the switch on my Mac just yet, I finally get it. On Windows, it feels like a massive leg-up over not just the built-in Windows search, but any other application that's tried it, too.
Software and Services
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
I tried dozens of Pocket alternatives, and I keep coming back to this self-hosted tool
3 days ago
This is the strangest operating system I've ever tried on my PC
3 days ago
I tried Firecracker microVMs for self-hosted services, and it's surprisingly powerful
2 days ago
4 NotebookLM power user secrets you didn't know about
Today's best deals
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
6 hours ago
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
17 hours ago
This niche Steam title with 93% positive reviews is free to keep, but only if you're very quick
1 day ago
See More
Trending Now
3 ways I use NotebookLM to be a better writer
Winux is a Linux distro that looks like Windows 11, but that's not a good thing
The Raycast beta for Windows already improves one of my favorite features
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.