I tested the iPhone Air for a week, and here's why 17 Pro Max users shouldn't sleep on it | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
I tested the iPhone Air for a week, and here's why 17 Pro Max users shouldn't sleep on it
The iPhone Air might not wow serious photographers, but its ultra-thin build and balanced feature set make it a great choice for those on the go.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 25, 2025 at 5:30 p.m. PT
Apple iPhone Air
ZDNET's key takeaways The thinnest and lightest iPhone yet offers Pro performance at a competitive $999 price point. It's designed to feel burdenless, and that's the biggest reason to buy one over the iPhone 17 series. You'll just have to settle for only one camera, average battery life, and a single-firing speaker. View now at AppleView now at Best BuyView now at Verizon more buying choices Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The iPhone "Pro" label has always represented the bleeding edge of Apple's industrial design. I've upgraded to the Pro model every year since it debuted six years ago, and at this point in time, Apple's formula is so refined and polished that the investment is almost always worth it.That's why, going into Apple's Awe-dropping event earlier this month, my attention was reserved for the iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max, both of which launched with a new vapor chamber cooling system -- resolving a longstanding issue of overheating on Pro models -- as well as a redesigned and improved camera system. But the keynote ended with me shifting my focus to a different iPhone.Also: I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgradeSee, Apple did what it does best: marketing. It introduced the iPhone Air, with a theatrical flair, balanced on the tip of a finger at the Steve Jobs Theater, to a chorus of "oohs and ahhs." The iPhone 16 Pro Max in my pocket was feeling heavier by the second.Let me be clear: the iPhone Air is a first-generation product, and I've been burned by many first attempts. However, there's a very calculated approach to designing the thinnest and lightest iPhone ever that makes it worth my time. But is it worth yours?
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Apple iPhone Air Apple's thinnest and lightest iPhone yet features an A19 Pro chip, a 48MP Fusion camera, and more.
details
View at Apple An iPhone that won't crack under pressureI'd like to think that I'm one of the few people who have been able to test both the iPhone Air and its Android competitor, the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge, so when I first held the iPhone, the experience was strangely familiar. The device's ultraportability will impress anyone who picks one up, but for me, seeing the fluid Liquid Glass animations flow across the 6.5-inch OLED screen was when reality really set in. This is what iOS 26 was meant to be for.Also: iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winnerThe idea of an ultra-thin and lightweight iPhone has been rather foreign over the past few years. In fact, holding the iPhone Air reminded me less of the other titanium-cased models in recent years and more of the iPhone 6 Plus from 2019. Back then, such a form factor bordered between normal and risky. It was both a fashionable status symbol and a device that gave into pressure.
Kerry Wan/ZDNETI expect the former of the two clauses -- status symbol -- to continue with the iPhone Air, with its near-invisible side profile (it's just 5.6mm thick) and singular camera plateau representing one of the most burdenless iPhones of late. As for bendgate, I'm not too worried about that -- and Apple doesn't seem to be either. Following the September keynote, the company showed members of the media its durability testing facility, which included a machine that applied 130 pounds of force on the center point of the iPhone Air. It bulged but never cracked or snapped in half, and even straightened itself shortly after. That's a testament to both the titanium frame that wraps around the phone and the Ceramic Shield layering on the front and back.If you're more interested in a real-world stress test, I recently sat down with the iPhone Air in my back pocket, and the device showed no signs of fragility. And I'm a six-foot guy who's well over 130 pounds. If there's one phone that you should use without a case, let it be this one.A Pro phone without the branding
Kerry Wan/ZDNETThere's a bit of weight that's lifted when an iPhone doesn't have the Pro moniker; you expect it to have shortcomings, fewer features, and just a serviceable experience. That sets the iPhone Air up for room to impress, with it being powered by the same A19 Pro chip that revs up the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max models.Also: iOS 26 is now live - here's how to download it (and which iPhones support it)After letting my iPhone Air work through all its initial setup tasks and app downloads, I paced it through a series of performance benchmarks alongside my iPhone 16 Pro Max, iPhone 16 Plus, and Galaxy S25 Edge. Here are the results.Geekbench 6 single-coreGeekbench 6 multicoreAdobe Premiere Rush (4K, 30s)iPhone Air (A19 Pro)3,6959,57122 secondsiPhone 16 Pro Max (A18 Pro)3,6129,21020 secondsiPhone 16 Plus (A18)3,5258,98226 secondsSamsung Galaxy S25 Edge (Snapdragon 8 Elite)3,03710,10643 secondsFocus on relativity. From my testing, the iPhone Air competes well with older and likely newer iPhone Pro models, and even better against the S25 Edge. However, its greatest weakness is efficiency and prolonged power management. I've noticed that the camera plateau, where most of the processing components are fitted in, often gets warm after a few minutes of intense workloads.It's less noticeable on other phones, including the S25 Edge, because heat is more evenly dispersed across the body, but by condensing everything within a strip of glass and metal, and not having the same vapor chamber cooling system found on the iPhone 17 Pro models, the Air takes a hit during extended usage.
Kerry Wan/ZDNETThat carries into the battery life. This isn't an all-day endurance phone, not without a charge or two throughout or the MagSafe battery pack that Apple is pitching the Air with. The big takeaway is that I'm definitely finding myself looking for a charger more often than when I was on my iPhone 16 Pro Max and other thicker handsets. But this is to be expected from a phone so thin.Also: iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared the two flagship models, and here's the winnerPart of me wishes Apple had added the same 40W wired charging rate from the iPhone 17 Pro models to the Air, but that would likely open another can of worms regarding thermals and battery degradation. With the Air's already smaller capacity, you just can't take that risk.The high and low points of the iPhone AirThe iPhone Air's cameras are both its high and low points. I'm a fan of the 18MP Center Stage front camera, as it can adaptively stretch out the field of view and give selfies a level of depth and embrace that's long been missing on phones in general. For the past two months, I've been taking group photos and portraits with the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 since the outer display serves as a viewfinder for the rear wide and ultrawide cameras. The iPhone Air and its new square sensor fundamentally achieve the same thing, but with fewer camera taps, unfolding, and other maneuvers required.Also: I tested the iPhone 17 for 24 hours, and I'm already questioning if I need a ProA squared sensor also gives the selfie camera more room for electronic stabilization, meaning videos appear less stuttery and shaky, even when compared to last year's iPhones.
Kerry Wan/ZDNETOn the other hand, the rear 48MP camera leaves a sensor or two to be desired. Color accuracy, contrast, and shadow detail are still the iPhone's forte (as depicted in the samples above), but there were several moments when I craved the more distant optical zooming of the Pro model, especially when recording live events and subjects far away. The absence of an ultrawide lens also means you can't dramatize landscapes and scenic views from up close or pull in macro-level details like on the regular, $200-less iPhone 17.Best mobile deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy S24 FE 128GB Unlocked AI Phone (Gray):  $525 (save $125)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100)
Apple iPhone 14 128GB Unlocked Phone (Refurbished, Midnight):  $338 (save $291) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
ZDNET's buying adviceSo, who should buy the iPhone Air? At $1,000, you're mainly paying for the ultraportability and innovation factor. Of all four new iPhones released this year, the iPhone Air feels like the one we'll most likely reference in the future, when even the Pro models -- and potentially foldables -- are built under a similar framework.If you're a camera enthusiast, power user, or want an iPhone that might not require a battery swap after 2-3 years, then I'd consider your other options this year, including the base model.Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's the best buy for youWhat I expect to ultimately tip the scales in the Air's favor will be the in-store experience, when curious shoppers pick up the device and feel an absence of thickness and bulk. (For those who care, you may also notice that the Air comes in a black color, but not the 17 Pro.)The iPhone Air is a device you must see in person to grasp its significance. When you do, switching between it and any other model will only amplify the idea that the other model will soon be a thing of the past. Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winner
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use