attributes Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
attributes
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
7 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article Covering hidden=until-found
accessibility attributes HTML
Covering hidden=until-found
Short story: Slapping hidden=until-found on an element in HTML enables any hidden content within the element to be findable in the browser with in-page search.
Geoff Graham
on
Aug 15, 2025
Direct link to the article A CSS-Only Star Rating Component and More! (Part 1)
attributes borders forms
A CSS-Only Star Rating Component and More! (Part 1)
In this article, you'll learn how to make a full-on star rating component out of nothing but a single input element and vanilla CSS.
Temani Afif
on
Mar 7, 2025
Direct link to the article Chrome 133 Goodies
attributes container-queries
Chrome 133 Goodies
Did you see the release notes for Chrome 133? It's currently in beta, but the Chrome team has been publishing a slew of new articles with pretty incredible demos that are tough to ignore. I figured I'd round those up in one place.
Geoff Graham
on
Mar 10, 2025
Direct link to the article Invoker Commands: Additional Ways to Work With Dialog, Popover… and More?
attributes dialog popover
Invoker Commands: Additional Ways to Work With Dialog, Popover… and More?
Web browsers are experimenting with two HTML attributes — technically, they’re called “invoker commands” — that are designed to invoke popovers, dialogs, and further down the line, all kinds of actions without writing JavaScript. Although, if you do reach for JavaScript, the new attributes come with some new events that we can listen for.
Daniel Schwarz
on
Nov 22, 2024
Direct link to the article HTML Data Attributes Guide
attribute selectors attributes data attributes HTML
HTML Data Attributes Guide
Everything you ever wanted to know about data attributes in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Chris Coyier
on
Aug 12, 2024
Direct link to the article What’s the Difference Between Width/Height in CSS and Width/Height HTML attributes?
attributes images specificity
What’s the Difference Between Width/Height in CSS and Width/Height HTML attributes?
Some HTML elements accept width and height as attributes. Some do not. Those attributes are sometimes referred to as presentational attributes. The thing to know about them is that they are overridden by any other styling information whatsoever. That makes them ideal as a fallback.
Chris Coyier
on
Jan 24, 2020
Direct link to the article Working with Attributes on DOM Elements
attributes data attributes JavaScript
Working with Attributes on DOM Elements
The DOM is just a little weird about some things, and the way you deal with attributes is no exception. There are a number of ways to deal with the attributes on elements. By attributes, I mean things like the …
Chris Coyier
on
Sep 3, 2019
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top