5 cool ways your iPhone's lock screen just got more customizable with iOS 26 | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
iOS
5 cool ways your iPhone's lock screen just got more customizable with iOS 26
You can change, move, and animate certain elements on your lock screen. Here's how.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 11:00 a.m. PT
Lance Whitney/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The lock screen on your iPhone is more than just a way to protect your phone from prying eyes. The screen can also display helpful tidbits, including the date and time, notifications, widgets for key features, and your favorite photos.I like to tweak the lock screen not only to provide useful information but to give it a personal and distinctive appearance. You've long been able to customize the lock screen, but iOS 26 adds several new tricks to make it your own. Here are five cool ways to do just that.Before you proceed, make sure you've updated your iPhone to iOS 26. Go to settings, select General, and then tap Software Update. Choose the iOS 26 option and then tap the Update now button.
1. Paint the clock with Liquid Glass
With its OS 26 updates, Apple kicked off its new Liquid Glass aesthetic, which gives icons, folders, menus, and other elements a translucent effect as if you're eyeing them through glass. If you like the look, you can apply it to the clock on your lock screen.Also: You can update your iPhone to iOS 26 for free right now - here's which models support itTo try this, move to the lock screen on your phone. Press down on any empty area and then swipe left or right until you see the screen you want to tweak. Tap Customize and then tap the time at the top of the screen. At the bottom panel, change the look from Solid to Glass. You can also then adjust the font, thickness, and color. When finished, tap the X to close the panel and then tap Done.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
2. Change the size of the clock
You're also able to alter the size of the clock to make it larger or smaller. However, this works only if there's enough room on the wallpaper image to increase the size. For this, press down on any empty area of the lock screen, swipe to the screen you want to modify, and then tap Customize. If the clock can be resized, you'll see a drag handle in the lower right corner. Drag and drop the handle until you've resized the clock the way you'd like. When finished, tap Done.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
3. Move the widgets
By default, the widget dock appears near the top of the lock screen. But perhaps you'd like to place it further down. You can now do that, courtesy of iOS 26.Also: iPhone battery worse after updating to iOS 26? Here's why, and how I fixed itAgain, press down on any empty area of your lock screen, move to a screen with widgets at the top, and tap Customize. Drag the widget dock down the screen and release it. The dock will nestle in at the bottom. When finished, tap Done.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
4. Turn your 2D lock screen photo into a 3D spatial image
With iOS 26, you can apply a spatial effect to a lock screen photo, which essentially turns a 2D image into a 3D one. Moving your phone around then makes it appear as if the foreground is shifting against the background, providing depth to the image.To try this one, you'll need to set up a lock screen with a photo that can take advantage of the spatial effect. You may need to test a few different photos until you find the right one. When ready, press down on any empty area of your lock screen, move to the screen with the photo, and tap Customize. If you've chosen the right image, a hexagonal icon appears lower in the screen. Tap that, and the 2D photo will be transformed into a 3D image. Tap Done. Return to the lock screen and move your phone around to see the effect.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
5. View animated album art
A few albums available through iTunes and Apple Music support animated album art. This means that the image in the album cover art animates as you view it. With iOS 26, you can now view such album art on the lock screen. Since most albums don't yet support this option, you may have to play around with different ones. On my end, I chose Marvin Gaye's classic album "What's Going On."Also: This iOS 26 feature makes your screenshots so much more useful - here's how it worksTo try this, start playing the album through the Apple Music app. Segue to the lock screen. The mini music player appears toward the bottom. Tap the small thumbnail of the album, and the album art expands to the entire screen, where you'll see it animated. To return to the small thumbnail, tap the larger album art.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETMore how-tos
How to download YouTube videos for free, plus two other methods
Wi-Fi problems? Add a wired network to your home without Ethernet cable - here's how
Wiping a Windows laptop? Here's the safest free way to erase your personal data
How to connect a PS4 controller to a smartphone
How to download YouTube videos for free, plus two other methods
Wi-Fi problems? Add a wired network to your home without Ethernet cable - here's how
Wiping a Windows laptop? Here's the safest free way to erase your personal data
How to connect a PS4 controller to a smartphone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
On hold? Your iPhone can listen to the call's music and wait for you - here's how
Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it down
This iOS 26 trick made my old iPhone photos really pop - in 3D
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use