Cancer Made Me a Better Manager - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Careers
When I was diagnosed with cancer, I became a better leader at work. I didn't have the energy to micromanage.
As told to
Lauren Crosby Medlicott
Stephanie Essenfeld was diagnosed with cancer in January 2025.
Courtesy of Stephanie Essenfeld
2025-09-17T13:38:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Stephanie Essenfeld is a 33-year-old psychotherapist and business owner in Miami.
She was diagnosed with breast cancer in January 2025.
She quickly discovered that cancer made her a better team leader for her staff.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Stephanie Essenfeld, a psychotherapist who also hosts conferences helping businesses learn assertiveness and boundaries. It has been edited for length and clarity.
Back in November of 2024, my team and I were excitedly talking about plans for the year ahead — new retreats and conferences we would host in 2025.As the year ended, I felt a lump in my breast. Days later, the doctor told me I had an aggressive type of cancer.
Suddenly, I was filled with uncertainty and fearFor years, I had been teaching people about radical acceptance — not rejecting pain, but recognizing pain as a part of reality right now, and learning how to live with it.Even though I initially questioned "why me?" I immediately shifted to "what now?" Cancer was happening, and it was one of the challenges I was going to have to deal with. I was going to get through this journey coming from a place of peace and gratitude, rather than fear.In my sadness, anger, and pain, I'd open myself up to the amazing things that would come as a result of cancer.
Over the last six months, I've experienced a lot of good stuff. My relationship with my husband has strengthened, my daughters have been amazing, and the support I've had from friends and family has been incredible.Cancer has also made me a better leader.I was honest with my employeesWhen I was diagnosed, I was afraid of letting my team down. I didn't want them to carry a burden that wasn't their own, or to panic about the future.
At one of the first Monday team meetings in January, I was honest — I told my team about the cancer and all the uncertainty that felt very uncomfortable.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Every subsequent week, I gave them updates and shared my fears about cancer and treatment.These meetings became group brainstorming sessions — making decisions about next steps. Prior to this, I made decisions, and my team would execute them. With cancer, I stepped off my pedestal to allow the team to be a team on a mission together.
We all started asking for help more openlyInitially nervous that asking for help would make me look weak, I learned that by inviting them into the decision-making, brainstorming process, they felt seen and heard. They were no longer puzzle pieces I moved around, but they were building the puzzle themselves.
Courtesy of
Stephanie Essenfeld
Over the last six months, there have been days when I have no energy, and I tell them. They, too, have started doing similar things. When one of us is down, the rest of the team pulls together to help each other.I stopped micromanagingContinuing to work throughout chemo, I let go of control without losing vision. As a leader, I could set out a clear purpose and mission without micromanaging every detail. Instead of supervising every move of each staff member, something I no longer had the energy to do, I started trusting them to carry out the vision we'd set.
I used to think that in order to lead, there had to be pressure on my team to get the results I was looking for. While they had always met the goals, they weren't meeting them in a way that was fulfilling. With a lot of pressure, you don't create from a place of enjoyment.On this cancer journey, I haven't had the energy to apply that pressure, but I was still present, trusting, supporting, and excited for the staff.With this leadership style, I prioritized people over performance. I didn't just want to hear about my staff's performance; I wanted to hear about how they were doing.
Instead of falling apart, my team showed up, and they showed me the kind of leader I want to be once I've completed my treatment. We've grown, not only as a team, but as a business. I've never been so fulfilled about my work as I am now.
Recommended video
as told to
Health
Cancer
More
Leadership
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account