Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago — at least three people died after radiation doses that were 100x too strong from the buggy Therac-25 radiation therapy machine | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
PC Gaming
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
PC Gaming
3D Pinball bug allowed game to run at 5,000 FPS
GPUs
Dead RTX 4090 with 48GB VRAM gets cooked beyond salvation
Cyber Security
Hacker plants three strains of malware in a Steam Early Access game called Chemia — security company found crypto-jacking infostealers and a backdoor to install yet more malware in the future
GPUs
Nvidia RTX 5090 reset bug prompts $1,000 reward for a fix
Tech Industry
Dev plants kill switch in ex-employer's network that crashed servers and deleted files, gets four years in the slammer
PC Building
Repairer brands customer’s gaming PC a ‘monstrosity’ — skin lacerating cable management technique provokes horror
Artificial Intelligence
AI coding platform goes rogue during code freeze and deletes entire company database
Cyber Security
Security vulnerability on U.S. trains that let anyone activate the brakes on the rear car was known for 13 years — operators refused to fix the issue until now
Cyber Security
JavaScript packages with billions of downloads were injected with malicious code in world's largest supply chain hack, geared to steal crypto
PC Building
Desperate PC DIYer appeals for help after spending $20,000 on a build that doesn't work despite returning multiple parts
Windows
Hilariously unfortunate Windows user accidentally ejects graphics card like a memory stick — breaks PC for over an hour out of curiosity
Cloud Storage
AWS accused of a ‘digital execution’ after it deleted 10 years of users' data without warning
Cyber Security
Recertified HDD vendor goHardDrive caught leaking thousands of customer details
Cyber Security
Bizarre cyberattack blamed on Russia and China-linked hackers permanently breaks dozens of speed cameras in the Netherlands
Software
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago — at least three people died after radiation doses that were 100x too strong from the buggy Therac-25 radiation therapy machine
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
21 September 2025
Comments (3)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: The National Archives, catalog.archives.gov, NAID: 6361754)
Software bugs can cause a lot of anxiety, inconvenience, and leech away valuable time, but thankfully they are rarely fatal. However, back in 1985 a radiation therapy machine called the Therac-25 was only just getting started on its human killing spree. There was a bug in its software which resulted in a deadly race condition, and at least six unfortunate individuals received doses of radiation that were 100x too strong. Three people died as a result of this software bug.When launched, Therac-25 was an attractive machine for medical institutions as it offered a revolutionary dual treatment modes in one compact machine. It could be used for electron beam therapy to address shallow tissue problems, like skin cancers. Its other operating mode was Megavolt X-ray therapy, where a high current electron beam could target deep tissue problems. You wouldn’t want to mix these modes up…A move to software-only controlsOne of the innovations delivered with Therac-25 was the move to software-only controls. Earlier machines had electromechanical hardware interlocks to prevent the kinds of radiation accidents that occurred during the operation of this device. Therac-20, for example, is said to have shared software bugs with Therac-25, but the hardware would block any unsafe operating conditions, even if the software malfunctioned.
You may like
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
3D Pinball bug allowed game to run at 5,000 FPS
Dead RTX 4090 with 48GB VRAM gets cooked beyond salvation
A paper published by California Public University computer science masters student, Anne Marie Porrello, details the nature of the bug / accident across the six known cases. For this fatal bug to manifest, typically, the Therac-25 operator would mistakenly choose the wrong operating mode and quickly try and correct their error. An experienced operator could edit treatment parameters so fast that the software skipped a safety check due to a ‘race condition’ between the input handler and the radiation beam logic.Crucially, the Therac-25 took about 8-seconds to change radiation beam mode, and fast operators could confuse the software with inputs during this time window.Swipe to scroll horizontallyTherac-25: Radiation Accident Summary, table from Anne Marie PorrelloDate of the Accident Location of the Accident Extent of injuries to patient Number of months after the first accident June 3, 1985Marietta, GABreast removal, loss of use of armRow 1 - Cell 3 July 26, 1985Ontario, CanadaTotal hip replacement needed1January 6, 1986Yakima, WAMinor disability and scarring7March 21, 1986Tyler, TXDeath9April 11, 1986Tyler, TXDeath10January 17,1987Yakima, WADeath19The first such accident that is documented occurred in June 1985, and the last in January 1987. Therac-25 manufacturer AECL resisted any blame attributed to their systems for months, only escalating to a thorough investigation in spring 1986. By that time, the FDA was also investigating the accidents.In the wake of Therac-25’s killing spree, there were calls for formal verification, rigorous testing, and improved documentation for all medical software. The issues with Therac-25 has become an often-taught cautionary tale in computer science studies.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See all comments (3)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
3D Pinball bug allowed game to run at 5,000 FPS
Dead RTX 4090 with 48GB VRAM gets cooked beyond salvation
Hacker plants three strains of malware in a Steam Early Access game called Chemia — security company found crypto-jacking infostealers and a backdoor to install yet more malware in the future
Nvidia RTX 5090 reset bug prompts $1,000 reward for a fix
Dev plants kill switch in ex-employer's network that crashed servers and deleted files, gets four years in the slammer
Latest in Software
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
DreamScene is 'back' in Windows 11, letting you use videos as your desktop background
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
Here's how I installed Windows 11 using a nano-sized 2.4GB ISO
I've been using Linux for a quarter of a century, so why do I keep coming back to Ubuntu?
Microsoft will force install the Copilot AI app for users with desktop versions of 365 apps like Word and Excel
Latest in News
Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate
China is converting farmland into data centers as part of $37 billion effort to centralize AI compute power
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
SoftBank beams 5G to phones from the sky in successful stratospheric test flight
Amazon sends a literal brick to a customer in lieu of the RTX 5080 they ordered
Radeon RX 9070 gains 25% performance in synthetic benchmarks using RX 9070 XT vBIOS
3 Comments
Comment from the forums
Air2004
"In the wake of Therac-25’s killing spree"
A little to over dramatic don't ya think?
Sure sounds like to me that if it weren't for Operator error, the software bug wouldn't manifest.
Now, has anyone checked to see how many people's lives have been saved by the over dose /s
Reply
ttquantia
Today, the problem of buggy and low-quality software is being escalated by the use of LLM-based software tools, which generate code without any correctness guarantees, and without any human necessarily fully understanding what the code actually does. Good luck with that! A catastrophy waiting to happen.
Reply
DiamondFlyer
It's not an exaggeration. With one short exposure, the machine literally killed, in just a few days, patients that would still have lived for months if not many years without any sort of treatment.
The operators didn't do mistakes per se. There were some flaws in the user interface that lead the system to use older settings than the last input of the operator when the operator was too quick. It was just an unsafe, not properly designed and tested software that was used. The code was not reviewed because it was mainly based on the software from previous model that was deemed "accident free". But the previous model had hardware safeguards that created some level of protection for the patients in case errors would cause an abnormally high dose to be delivered due to an operator or software error. The new model didn't have those safeguards, was purely software operated and it's only after investigating on the problems of the new model that they realized that the older model also made those mistakes but with less harmful consequences thanks to the extra protection layers.
Reply
View All 3 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.