Microsoft fixes Exchange Online outage affecting users worldwide
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
OpenAI's $4 GPT Go plan may expand to more regions
ChatGPT Search is now smarter as OpenAI takes on Google Search
ChatGPT now gives you greater control over GPT-5 Thinking model
Stream and work anywhere with a $75 Android open-box tablet deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft fixes Exchange Online outage affecting users worldwide
Microsoft fixes Exchange Online outage affecting users worldwide
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 11, 2025
03:43 PM
0
​Update September 11, 18:12 EDT: Revised story and title after Microsoft's confirmation that the outage has been mitigated.
Microsoft says that it has mitigated an Exchange Online outage affecting customers worldwide, which blocked their access to emails and calendars.
"We're investigating an issue affecting a portion of infrastructure in North America, where users may be unable to access their mailbox via any Exchange Online connection method," the company said on Thursday morning.
According to user reports on DownDetector, the issue began impacting Microsoft's customers early in the morning and is causing server connection problems, affecting users who attempt to log in to their accounts and access Teams, Outlook, and Hotmail.
While the root cause has yet to be determined, Microsoft added in an admin center update that it was investigating telemetry data and working to mitigate the impacted infrastructure.
"We've collected trace logs that indicate unexpectedly high resource utilization which may be contributing to connection errors and failures for mailboxes hosted on this portion of infrastructure," Microsoft said. "We're currently working to identify and address the underlying cause of the high CPU utilization."
In a subsequent service alert update, the company said it was seeing signs of recovery after implementing a configuration change to some of the impacted infrastructure, with reduced "impact of the high service utilization on the environment."
Sixteen hours into the outage, Microsoft updated its admin center incident report to say that the incident wasn't region-specific as initially believed, and users may also "experience delays in email delivery" besides issues when accessing their mailboxes.
On Friday, around 2:00 AM, Redmond announced that it had successfully mitigated the outage after restoring most of the previously degraded infrastructure.
"Our monitoring of service health indicates that the service has returned to optimal levels. We'll continue monitoring the environment over the course of the next several hours to ensure our services remain healthy," Microsoft said.
"We’ve identified a recurring issue where a specific software build version caused repeated database dismounts and failovers. The repeated dismounts and failovers led to increased CPU utilization, causing message queue buildup, resulting in impact," it added four hours later when describing the incident's root cause.
Earlier this week, Redmond resolved another issue that caused an anti-spam service to quarantine some emails and mistakenly block Exchange Online and Microsoft Teams users from opening URLs.
The company is also rolling out a fix to address an Exchange Online issue that triggers email access problems for Outlook mobile users who use Hybrid Modern Authentication (HMA).
The issue began impacting Android and iOS users on August 17, causing mailboxes to crash and preventing them from accessing their email and calendars.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft: Anti-spam bug blocks links in Exchange Online, TeamsMicrosoft working on fix for ongoing Outlook email issuesMicrosoft Exchange Online outage affects Outlook web usersMicrosoft investigates outage impacting Copilot, Office.comMicrosoft shares workaround for Teams "couldn't connect" error
Email
Exchange Online
Microsoft
Outage
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Sponsor Posts
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT