Microsoft is finally giving us a handy network diagnostics tool, but not in the way you want
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Microsoft is finally giving us a handy network diagnostics tool, but not in the way you want
By
Simon Batt
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Windows adds a "Perform speed test" button to the network menu for quick ISP speed checks.
The test opens via your browser and runs on Bing, not a built‑in Windows tool.
No option yet to change which speed service is used; fingers crossed, Microsoft lets you pick.
Sorry folks, but this one's my bad. I made a wish that Windows had a way to monitor network speeds, so you can tell if your network traffic is slow or not. However, I had no idea that my wish was passed onto a monkey's paw, which instantly curled and added a stipulation to what I wanted. As such, we now have proof that, yes, Windows is getting an option that lets you quickly bring up your network speeds. However, there is something that I, personally, would call a "catch," and whether or not you do too wholly depends on your feelings toward Bing.
Windows will now let you check your network speeds, with a catch
This discovery comes to us via PhantomOfEarth, who's been doing their research on the latest testing builds. If this is the first you've heard of them, PhantomOfEarth has a knack for cracking open Windows 11 preview builds and looking at all the stuff buried within. Sometimes they unearth hidden, work-in-progress features that give us insights as to what Microsoft is planning in the background. This time, they popped open the latest Dev and Beta builds and found a ton of these hidden features. There's a revamp to the mobile settings and more stuff being moved over from the Control Panel to the Settings page. However, one of my personal highlights is a new feature that adds a "Perform speed test" button to the network indicator. If you're wondering if your ISP is giving you the speeds you think you're getting, you can just click this and see what's up. There are just two issues. First, it seems that the check isn't made within Windows itself; instead, it looks like the operating system will load up a speed tester via your browser. Second, it's done by Bing, which will likely be a deal breaker for some, and knowing Microsoft, you won't be able to change which speed-checking service you want to use.
Still, it's a cool idea, and I hope Microsoft does allow you to pick your favorite website instead of pushing you to use Bing. After all, the feature is still in a work-in-progress state, so there's every chance that Microsoft will add the feature eventually, even if that chance is pretty slim. In the meantime, if you want something you can use without opening up a browser, we've covered an internet speed and uptime tracker that helps keep your ISP honest.
Windows
Windows 11: Everything you need to know
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
6 real-life lessons I learned after moving my photo library to my NAS
2 days ago
5 reasons you need to be more careful with RAM on Ryzen (and what you should do to make it better)
3 days ago
6 ways WSL2 replaced virtual machines in most of my workflows
3 days ago
5 weirdest things I've 3D printed that I actually use
Today's best deals
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
45 minutes ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
6 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
18 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Why I replaced WPS Office with this lightweight alternative and saved my sanity
I tried turning my old Android phone into a Linux server, but ended up distro-hopping instead
I tried dozens of Pocket alternatives, and I keep coming back to this self-hosted tool
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.