Subscribe to Ars Technica - Ars Technica
Skip to content
Ars Technica home
Sections
Forum
Subscribe
Search
AI
Biz & IT
Cars
Culture
Gaming
Health
Policy
Science
Security
Space
Tech
Feature
Reviews
AI
Biz & IT
Cars
Culture
Gaming
Health
Policy
Science
Security
Space
Tech
Forum
Subscribe
Story text
Size
Small
Standard
Large
Width
*
Standard
Wide
Links
Standard
Orange
* Subscribers only
Learn more
Pin to story
Theme
HyperLight
Day & Night
Dark
System
Sign In
The best Ars reading experience.
Ad-free. Tracker-free. Guilt-free.
Your subscription is the best way to support our journalism.
Ars Pro
$5
/ month
Subscribe
No ads
No tracking
Enhanced experience
58.3333% off!
Ars Pro
$25
/ year
Subscribe
Best value
Still no ads
Still no tracking
Ars Pro++
$50
/ year
Subscribe
All Ars Pro features
Support journalism
Special ++ badge
Gift an Ars Sub
Gifting a sub is easy, and it's the best way to share the love of Ars Technica! Enter your information and the
recipient's details, and we'll take care of the rest.
Give Ars Pro
Give Ars Pro++
Sub
Features
FAQ
An overview of what features come with your sub:
Ad-free experience
Ars subscribers get no banner ads, no video pre-rolls, and can enjoy Ars entirely ad-free while supporting our work
No trackers
Pages are completely tracker-free, offering an additional layer of privacy when you browse Ars
Ars Classic view
Browse the front page in the original blog-style format, with the first three paragraphs of each story visible
Neutron Star view
Super dense headline mode with keyboard navigation
Topic filtering
Subscribers can turn off topics they don’t want to see, and change the Most Read topic
Optimized reading layout
The ad-free experience includes a page layout that optimizes for content
Optional wide text mode
In addition to changing the text size and link colors subscribers can opt for a wider text column for increased page density
Full-text RSS feeds
Read all Ars content from your favorite RSS reader
Access to subscriber forums
Enjoy discussions with your fellow geeks in the Lounge, our safe haven from trolls and social media
PDF downloads
A convenient way to archive stories
Help Ars focus on its core journalistic mission
Your subscription helps Ars focus on its core journalistic mission
Frequently asked questions. Need another answer? Reach out to us!
I can already ad block, why pay for a sub?
Fair question. We hear you on not liking ads or trackers, it’s why our subscription doesn’t have either. Look around the industry, almost no one promises that. The truth is when you block ads you deprive us of support for our journalism.
Our subscription is not only ad-free, it offers a better reading experience than ad blocking, with clean page layouts, and features like extra-wide text mode, or Classic and Neutron Star home page views.
It also supports us directly, so you can help keep our journalism alive.
Why do you require a credit card for the free trial?
The main reason is it’s an easy way to keep people from abusing it by constantly signing up for free. But of course we hope you like it, want to keep it, and will smoothly transition into the full Ars Pro experience.
We have no desire to trick anyone. Canceling is easy if you don’t end up liking it.
Can I cancel my sub once I’ve paid for it?
You can always cancel your sub, and it will not automatically renew after expiration. We do not offer refunds under most circumstances, and your subscription benefits will continue to work until expiration, unless you ask for your account to be deleted.
Do you store my credit card info?
Ars Technica does not store or directly handle your credit card information. We use the leading subscription service provider Chargebee, in conjunction with either Stripe or PayPal. Your card number will be stored with one of those two providers, which in turn share a token with Chargebee that allows for recurring payments.
We will never see your card number, and we will never store it on our servers.
Can I upgrade or downgrade my subscription?
Yes! You can upgrade or downgrade your subscription at any time. If you upgrade, you will be charged the difference in price for the remaining time on your current subscription. If you downgrade, you will be charged the new rate at the end of your current billing cycle.
Can I gift a subscription?
Yes! You can gift a subscription to someone else. Just select one of the gifts from the subscribe page, and enter the recipient’s email address. They will receive an email with your gift message and instructions on how to activate their subscription.
Can I use my subscription on multiple devices?
Yes! Your subscription is tied to your Ars Technica account, so you can use it on any device where you’re logged in. This includes your computer, tablet, and smartphone.
What if I have more questions?
If you have any other questions, please feel free to reach out to us at our support email or use the form on our contact page. We’re happy to help!
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from
the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts
and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After
all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
More
from Ars
About Us
Staff Directory
Newsletters
General FAQ
Posting Guidelines
RSS Feeds
Contact
Contact us
Advertise with us
Reprints
Manage Preferences
© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or
registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and
Privacy Policy and
Cookie Statement and Ars
Technica Addendum and Your
California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on
sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be
reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except
with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad
Choices