Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection (2025) – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection of 2025
Audited & Verified: Jan 6, 2025, 2:19pm
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Written By
Meaghan Harmon
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Jason T. Garbarino, DNP, RN, GERO-BC, CNL
Gerontology / Nursing
Jason Garbarino has been a registered nurse for more than 15 years. Jason joined the University of Vermont Department of Nursing in 2013 and served as Director of their Undergraduate Nursing Program with more than 500 students. He has continually mai...
See Full Bio
Jason T. Garbarino, DNP, RN, GERO-BC, CNL
Gerontology / Nursing
Jason Garbarino has been a registered nurse for more than 15 years. Jason joined the University of Vermont Department of Nursing in 2013 and served as Director of their Undergraduate Nursing Program with more than 500 students. He has continually mai...
See Full Bio
Jason T. Garbarino, DNP, RN, GERO-BC, CNL
Jason T. Garbarino, DNP, RN, GERO-BC, CNL
Gerontology / Nursing
Jason Garbarino has been a registered nurse for more than 15 years. Jason joined the University of Vermont Department of Nursing in 2013 and served as Director of their Undergraduate Nursing Program with more than 500 students. He has continually mai...
See Full Bio
Jason T. Garbarino, DNP, RN, GERO-BC, CNL
Gerontology / Nursing
Jason Garbarino has been a registered nurse for more than 15 years. Jason joined the University of Vermont Department of Nursing in 2013 and served as Director of their Undergraduate Nursing Program with more than 500 students. He has continually mai...
See Full Bio
Fact Checked
|
Gerontology / Nursing
& 1 other
Audited & Verified: Jan 6, 2025, 2:19pm
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Elaine Shelly contributed reporting to this article.
Fall-related injuries can pose a tremendous risk to older adults . In fact, the rate of fall-related deaths among older adults increased by 30% between 2007 and 2016, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)[1]Facts About Falls. CDC. Accessed 3/3/2023. . Whether you’re an aging adult or you have a loved one with a high risk of falling, it’s important to take steps to minimize these incidents.
A medical alert system with automatic fall detection means that it provides a wearable device that can hang from a lanyard or be clipped to the waistband or pocket and is equipped with technology which senses when the wearer suddenly falls. It will trigger a call to a trained dispatcher who will speak to the user through the small two-way speaker in the device, asking if emergency help is needed.
To determine the best medical alert systems with the option of fall detection technology in wearable devices, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over 70 medical alert systems, assigning star rankings based on price, number of device types available, battery life, range of use, live agent connection time and more. Read on to see which medical alert systems with fall detection ranked highest and learn more about these systems in general.
Note: Prices are accurate as of the publication date.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about medical alert systems that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our medical alert systems methodology for the rankings below.
20+ medical alert system providers considered
70+ medical alert systems evaluated
35 metrics analyzed
Show More
Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Necklaces
Best Medical Alert Bracelets
Best Medical Alert Watches
Best Alternatives To Life Alert
Medical Guardian Medical Alert Review
Bay Alarm Medical Alert Review
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection of 2025
GetSafe Starter
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One
MobileHelp Solo
LifeFone At-Home and On-the-Go, VIPx
MobileHelp Duo
How We Picked the Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection
What Is a Medical Alert System?
How Do Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection Work?
How Much Does a Medical Alert System With Fall Detection Cost?
Types of Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection
Who Might Benefit From a Medical Alert System With Fall Detection?
How to Choose the Best Medical Alert System With Fall Detection
Compare the Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection in 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection
4.2
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Subscription cost: Starts at $34.95Equipment fee: $149Fall detection: Additional $10 per monthUse case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Up to 72 hours	Learn More	On Bay Alarm Medical's Website Why We Picked ItBay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection is a mobile medical alert system that may be suitable for those living at home who also want the versatility of a mobile option.The SOS All-in-One 2 offers maximum versatility. It’s small enough to bring with you on errands and other trips, but it also functions as the base console at home. And while the device charges, you can use the wearable help button instead. The device has a two-way speaker and optional fall detection, and it relies on 4G LTE.Our Experience With Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection“The SOS All-in-One 2 is a bulky device, which is great for those who need something that withstands [heavy use]. Those who want something smaller can try the included companion pendant.”
— Christopher Groux, Forbes Health tester
Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection of 2025
GetSafe Starter
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Service with fall detection starts at $39.95 per month ($79 one-time device cost)In-homeGPS protection add-on available24/7 monitoringLanguages available: Interpreters provided for multiple languages 	Call Now	Learn More	On GetSafe's Website Why We Picked ItThe GetSafe Starter system includes a base unit and wall button that the user can press to get help in the event of an emergency. It also has an optional addition of a wearable necklace that is equipped with fall detection technology. This wearable device is designed to be worn in or near the home, not while away from home. Fall detection costs an additional $10 per month. If you or a loved one lives alone and are worried that falls may be possible, this device features a help button and tiny two-way speaker, through which GetSafe dispatchers will talk to the wearer and then send help if necessary. GetSafe says that automatic fall detection is meant as a backup—pressing the help button to speak to a dispatcher in case of an emergency should always be the first option.	Pros & ConsMonthly, quarterly and annual billing plans availableA wall button that can be activated by voice command, a personal help button and 4G LTE In-Home system are all included with $79 one-time device costLowest monthly cost (with fall detection included) on this rankingAll systems include AT&T 4G LTE cellular coverage, notes the company24/7 U.S.-based monitoringOffers a warranty plan for an additional $5 per monthAdditional monthly fee for fall detection is a bit more than others on this list, at $10 per monthPoor Trustpilot ratingNot BBB-accreditedLockbox (a small metal box containing house key which is placed outside the front door with a secure code so that emergency services can enter the home without damaging property) is not included but comes at an additional $30 cost	Our Review“In addition to the fall detection device necklace, the GetSafe Starter system includes a voice-activated wall button. In case of an emergency, the user can activate the device by saying ‘Call 9-1-1’ twice—which provides an extra layer of protection for anyone living alone.GetSafe sells a Starter bundle (which covers up to one bedroom), a Standard bundle (which covers a two- to three-bedroom home) and a Select bundle (which covers a four- to five-bedroom home)…the Starter set includes a wireless base unit, a voice-activated wall button and an alert button on a lanyard for $79.” —Eliene Augenbraun, Forbes Health writer. For more information, check out our GetSafe medical alert review.
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Service with fall detection starts at $49.95 per month ($149 one-time device cost)MobileFeatures GPS technology24/7 monitoringLanguages available: Over 170 languages available 	Call Now	Learn More	On Bay Alarm Medical's Website Why We Picked ItThe Bay Alarm SOS All-In-One comes with a small, portable GPS device, a charger and a necklace and wristband to which the call button can be attached to. Automatic fall detection technology is available for an additional $10 per month. This means fall detection technology is added to the GPS device that comes with this package and customers get a separate help button necklace with fall detection capability.	Pros & ConsPowered by 4G LTECaregiver Tracking mobile app compatible with iOS and Android devicesIncludes two-way speaker to speak with live dispatcherIncludes SOS All-In-One wearable button, caregiver tracking, charging cradle and lanyard and belt clipUsers can beautify their button with Bella Bands and Bella Charms accessory optionsAccredited by the BBB since 2009 with an A+ ratingStrong magnet in SOS All-In-One device should be kept in belt pouch to avoid potential interaction for those with pacemakersPoor Trustpilot ratingMust carry All-In-One device in purse or pocket to use wearable button on the goBay Alarm requires three months of paid service for free shipping and 11 months of paid service for a free month, notes the company	Editor’s Take“This system is ideal for anyone who wants reassurance that they can get emergency help in or away from their home. I really appreciate that the fall detection can be added to the portable GPS device and also that a wearable necklace can detect sudden falls. The system also includes a wristband option in a variety of colors—onto which the help button can be attached.” – Nicole Gregory, Forbes Health writer. For more information on Bay Alarm’s product offerings, check out our Bay Alarm medical alert system review.
MobileHelp Solo
4.9
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Service with fall detection starts at $52.95 per month (no equipment cost) Mobile unit can be used anywhere (no base station is required) Features GPS technology 24/7 monitoringLanguages available: Multiple languages available through a third-party translation service	Call Now	Learn More	On MobileHelp's Website Why We Picked ItSuitable for use at home and on the go, the MobileHelp Solo medical alert system features a small portable unit and a wearable help button necklace that is 100% water-resistant, according to the company. Automatic fall detection technology can be added to the portable device. This means it will sense when the wearer has fallen and will automatically alert a dispatcher, who will initiate a two-way call to find out if help is needed. 	Pros & Cons30-day free trial availableNo activation fee and remote activation availableWaterproof wearable can be worn in the showerNo landline requiredFeatures GPS tracking24/7 U.S.-based monitoringNo equipment warranty without an additional monthly feeMore expensive than competing productsHigh fall detection cost compared to others on this listWaterproof Wall Button add-on costs an additional $2.95 per month	Editor’s Take“In addition to fall detection, users can also connect this system to the MobileHelp Connect app. I think this adds a whole new dimension to the device because with this app, you can track activity of the device user, add medication alerts and even event notifications, like doctor’s appointments. I really like that this can also be used by family members and authorized caregivers to locate the person wearing the mobile device on a map.” – Nicole Gregory, Forbes Health writer. For more information on MobileHelp’s fleet of products, check out our MobileHelp Medical Alert System review.
LifeFone At-Home and On-the-Go, VIPx
4.9
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Service with fall detection starts at $39.95 per monthMobileFeatures GPS technology24/7 protection availableLanguages available: English and Spanish, with interpreters available if needed 	Call Now	Learn More	On LifeFone's Website Why We Picked ItLifeFone’s At-Home and On-the-Go, VIPx model is a small, portable device that can be clipped onto a belt, carried in a purse or worn with a lanyard around the neck. Powered by cellular service, the device help button, when pressed, connects the user with a trained dispatcher who asks through the speaker if help is needed. With fall detection technology, the device senses when a wearer falls and automatically connects with a dispatcher. LifeFone notes that no fall detection is 100% accurate, so users should plan to push the help button in an emergency. Fees start at $41.95 per month on an annual plan, with an additional $5 monthly for optional automatic fall detection.	Pros & ConsFall detection only costs an additional $5 per monthBattery lasts up to 10 days, according to the companyDevice Finder feature allows Customer Care team to locate lost or misplaced devices with GPS-trackingWater-resistant in the rain or shower, according to the companyText and email reminders are sent when battery starts to run lowAvailable in three colors: Black, white and silverFall detection add-on may reduce device’s battery lifeUse of the Caregiver Mobile App requires an additional fee of $8 per monthProduct not available in white for AT&T usersDaily check-in calls to subscriber cost an additional $19 per month	Our Review“LifeFone allows you to choose who is contacted first and doesn’t limit the number of emergency contacts you’re able to notify. LifeFone will also send texts, emails and phone calls as a part of your customized emergency response plan…there’s no installation fee for LifeFone At-Home and On-the-Go VIPx devices, and if purchasing an annual or quarterly LifeFone subscription, the shipping and handling fee is waived. Those who purchase annual or quarterly subscriptions will also receive one free month of service, according to the company.” – Jessica Lester, Forbes Health, Lead Editor. For more, read our full LifeFone Medical Alert System review.
MobileHelp Duo
4.8
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Service with fall detection starts at $57.95 per monthIn-homeFeatures GPS technology24/7 monitoringLanguages available: Multiple languages available through a third-party translation service	Call Now	Learn More	On MobileHelp's Website Why We Picked ItThe MobileHelp Duo includes both an in-home and a mobile unit, as well as a waterproof help button. The Duo also features GPS tracking, remote activation, 24/7 monitoring based in the U.S. and easy installation, according to the company. Users also receive a free lockbox with purchase. Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual subscriptions are available, and monthly plans begin at $46.95 a month. You can add a fall detect pendant to your purchase for an additional $11 per month.	Pros & ConsFeatures GPS trackingIncludes a waterproof help buttonRemote activation available24/7 U.S.-based monitoringCompatible with MobileHelp Fall ButtonAnnual, semi-annual, quarterly and monthly plans availableHigh fall detection cost compared to others on this listAdding a neck pendant or wrist button to your order costs an additional $2 per monthFor lost or damaged equipment replacements, you must purchase the $6 Connect Premium add-on serviceWaterproof Wall Button add-on costs an additional $2.95 per monthCompany offers Duo and Mobile Duo products, which may create confusion for potential subscribers due to similar names	Our Review“​​The DUO system includes a free combination lockbox to safely store a key outside of your home, so emergency personnel can enter without having to break a window or door if you’re incapacitated…written instructions for setting up the DUO system and using the lockbox were easy to understand, with text in large type and pictures.” – Sandra Gordon, Forbes Health writer. For more information, check out our MobileHelp Medical Alert System review.
How We Picked the Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection
To determine the best medical alert systems with fall detection, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over 70 products, with each product’s star rating based on:
!function(){“use strict”;window.addEventListener(“message”,(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data[“datawrapper-height”]){var e=document.querySelectorAll(“iframe”);for(var t in a.data[“datawrapper-height”])for(var r=0;r<e.length;r++)if(e[r].contentWindow===a.source){var i=a.data[“datawrapper-height”][t]+”px”;e[r].style.height=i}}}))}();
Costs, including initial equipment fee, subscription fees and activation fees (25%)
Free trial length (5%)
Number of devices available (5%)
Device features, such as maximum signal range, battery life, GPS technology and more (42.5%)
Service features, such as 24/7 monitoring, multilingual emergency responders and more (17.5%)
Additional health monitoring services (5%)
Read more about our medical alert systems review methodology.
What Is a Medical Alert System?
Medical alert systems often come with a base unit that rests on a table, night stand or other flat surface and a small device that can be worn on the body, usually as a pendant worn around the neck, as a bracelet or clipped to a belt. The bracelet and pendant devices have a help button that when pressed, alert a trained dispatcher who uses the small two-way speaker to determine if the user needs help.
(Note: Product details and price are accurate as of the publication date.)
How Do Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection Work?
Fall detection devices are sensitive to the user’s movements and body position by using technology called accelerometers, which can detect sudden changes in body position. When the fall detection device senses that the user has fallen, the device notifies a trained dispatcher with the company who will check with the user to find out if emergency assistance is needed, speaking to them through the medical alert base unit. Some fall detection pendants or bracelets are independent alert units and the wearer can communicate with the operator through the pendant or bracelet. If the user has lost consciousness and the dispatcher cannot contact them or speak to them, emergency services will be sent.
Users can manually activate an alarm in the event a fall occurs and is not detected by the device. In the event someone falls and is not conscious, emergency services will be dispatched.
Are Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection Accurate?
Medical alert system manufacturers acknowledge that fall detection devices aren’t able to provide 100% accuracy. However, these devices may detect up to 85% of falls, and research indicates that fall detection devices worn closer to a person’s center of gravity—like a necklace or pendant—are often more accurate.
Benefits of Using a Medical Alert System With Fall Detection
Changes that may occur with aging, such as shifts in vision or physical strength, may affect an older adult’s sense of balance and lead to falls. Furthermore, an older adult who experienced a fall in the past may be more at risk for future falls, says Christine Hampton, an occupational therapist at the Shepherd Center in Atlanta.
“In the best of worlds, an older adult [who has had falls in the past] would have a caregiver with them, but we don’t always live in the best of worlds,” she adds. When a caregiver isn’t available, Hamptom recommends her patients consider medical alert systems with automatic fall detection to avoid the potential of a fall without assistance readily available.
How Much Does a Medical Alert System With Fall Detection Cost?
Monitoring service fees for medical alert systems may cost anywhere from $14.95 to $61.95 per month, with fall detection costing an additional $5 to $11 per month. Equipment costs vary widely by manufacturer.
Does Medicare Cover Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection?
Since Medicare doesn’t consider medical alert systems to be durable medical equipment (DME), fall detection alarm systems are not generally covered. However, some Medicare Advantage (Medicare Part C) plans cover part of the cost of a medical alert system.
Meanwhile, some Medicaid programs may cover the cost of a medical alert system with fall detection, but these benefits vary from state to state.
Types of Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection
Fall detection devices that come with medical alert systems are buttons that can be attached to a lanyard to wear around the neck, or clipped into a wristband, or on to waistband or belt. These wearable devices that has a range from the base unit in which it can function. Some systems are designed so that the wearable device will work inside or away from home—particularly beneficial for people who are active—and contain GPS technology so emergency services can locate an individual if they need help away from their home.
For people who are comfortable with technology, Hampton recommends smartwatches with fall detection, which may help the user feel less self conscious than they would while wearing a pendant or bracelet.
Safety Simplified, Always Connected
Experience unmatched peace of mind with Bay Alarm's SOS All-In-One device, offering built-in help features, caregiver tracking, and customizable options for personalized safety.
Learn More
On Bay Alarm's Website
Who Might Benefit From a Medical Alert System With Fall Detection?
Medical alert systems with fall detection may be best suited for those who are prone to falls or experience mobility limitations. Additionally, older adults who live alone may benefit from using fall detection devices, as a person’s vision or physical strength may change over time and affect their ability to maintain balance, increasing the risk of falls.
How to Choose the Best Medical Alert System With Fall Detection
Hampton recommends speaking with a skilled professional, such as an occupational therapist, geriatrician or geriatric nurse to help select a medical alert system with fall detection technology that fits the user’s needs. t Older adults who have difficulty using their hands might select a device that’s easy to manipulate and doesn’t require a high degree of manual dexterity, according to Hampton. Some older adults are hesitant to call for help, she said, adding that some may fear losing their ability to live independently in their home. Others with cognitive impairments may forget they’re wearing a device and not call for help when they need it. In these instances, Hampton says, it’s important to select a highly sensitive fall detection device that alerts emergency services without the older adult needing to activate an alarm manually.
Another factor to consider is the look of a wearable device with fall detection. Some people don’t like the appearance of a wearable device, though some medical alert system companies have designed devices that can be worn on a lanyard to look like costume jewelry.
The cost of medical alert systems may pose a significant challenge to older adults, adds Hampton. Fall detection typically costs around an extra $10 a month in addition to the medical alert system’s monthly monitoring fee, which may be a barrier for older adults on fixed incomes, she says.
For anyone who needs a medical alert device with fall detection, but is skeptical that the device will be helpful, most companies offer a free trial period. The devices are also covered by time-limited warranties.
Compare the Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection in 2025
GetSafe Starter
5.0
Learn MoreOn GetSafe's Website
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One
5.0
Learn MoreOn Bay Alarm Medical's Website
MobileHelp Solo
4.9
Learn MoreOn MobileHelp's Website
LifeFone At-Home and On-the-Go, VIPx
4.9
Learn MoreOn LifeFone's Website
MobileHelp Duo
4.8
Learn MoreOn MobileHelp's Website
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
LEARN MORE
GetSafe Starter
5.0
Learn MoreOn GetSafe's Website
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One
5.0
Learn MoreOn Bay Alarm Medical's Website
MobileHelp Solo
4.9
Learn MoreOn MobileHelp's Website
LifeFone At-Home and On-the-Go, VIPx
4.9
Learn MoreOn LifeFone's Website
MobileHelp Duo
4.8
Learn MoreOn MobileHelp's Website
See More See Less
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is the best medical alert system with fall detection?
The best medical alert system with fall detection depends on the needs and budget of the person using the system, according to Hampton. Physical strength, manual dexterity and cognitive ability are all factors in selecting an appropriate device. For help selecting a system, she recommends consulting a medical professional who serves older adults.
What wearable devices can detect falls?
Most medical alert systems offer bracelets or pendants with fall detection technology as an add-on service. Hampton also recommends smartwatches with fall detection for those who are more comfortable with technology.
Do medical alerts with fall detection work in the shower or bath?
Yes, many fall detection devices—including the devices on our list—are waterproof and can be worn in the bath or shower. These are slippery areas where people can easily fall while getting in and out of the shower or tub.
Does fall detection work without Wi-Fi?
Fall detection devices typically use 4G LTE coverage to communicate with an emergency response team and often do not require Wi-Fi or landline connection.
Sources
Footnotes
Facts About Falls. CDC. Accessed 3/3/2023.
References
Vahdatpour A, Amini N, Xu W, Sarrafzadeh M.
Accelerometer-based on-body sensor localization for health and medical monitoring applications.
Pervasive Mob Comput. 2011 Dec;7(6):746-760.
Chaudhuri S, Thompson H, Demiris G.
Fall detection devices and their use with older adults: a systematic review.
J Geriatr Phys Ther. 2014;37(4):178-96.
Wang, X, Ellul, J, Azzopardi, G.
Elderly Fall Detection Systems.
Smart Sensor Networks and Autonomy. 2020;7.
Pannurat N, Thiemjarus S, Nantajeewarawat E.
Automatic Fall Monitoring: A Review.
Sensors. 2014;14(7):12900-12936.
Next Up In Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Watches
Best Medical Alert Necklaces
Best Medical Alert Bracelets
Best Life Alert Alternatives
Life Alert Medical Alert System Review
Bay Alarm Medical Alert Review
Medical Guardian Review
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for Forbes Health, Meaghan loves practicing yoga, reading and spending time with her family near the ocean in her home state of Maine.
Jason T. Garbarino, DNP, RN, GERO-BC, CNL
Gerontology / Nursing
Jason Garbarino has been a registered nurse for more than 15 years. Jason joined the University of Vermont Department of Nursing in 2013 and served as Director of their Undergraduate Nursing Program with more than 500 students. He has continually maintained clinical practice across inpatient and primary care settings. He currently serves as Talent Director for inSpring, committed to the growth and diversification of the professional nursing workforce. His primary research areas of interest include promoting age-friendly health care, cultivating student interest in caring for older adults and teaching innovation. He served as chair of the American Nurses Credentialing Center Gerontological Nursing Board Certification Exam Content Expert Panel and is the nursing faculty liaison for the Dartmouth Centers for Health and Aging.
Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Necklaces
Best Medical Alert Bracelets
Best Medical Alert Watches
Best Alternatives To Life Alert
Medical Guardian Medical Alert Review
Bay Alarm Medical Alert Review
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise