Trump Is Making It $100K More Expensive to Hire H-1B Visa Workers - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Politics
Hiring H-1B visa workers may cost $100K more with Trump's latest executive order
By
Kelsey Vlamis
,
Rosalie Chan
, and
Alex Nicoll
Trump is making it a lot more expensive to hire workers under the H1-B visa program.
Leon Neal/Getty Images
2025-09-19T22:28:27Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Friday that would change the H-1B visa program.
The order raises the H-1B visa application fee to $100,000.
Tech companies use the H-1B visa program to hire skilled foreign workers.
It looks like hiring H-1B visa workers is about to get a whole lot more expensive.
President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Friday that includes changes to the H-1B visa program, which many tech companies use to hire thousands of skilled foreign workers every year.The order includes imposing an H-1B application fee of $100,000. The executive order said the fee would need to be paid in order for applications to be considered.
The White House told Business Insider on Saturday that the new rules would only affect new applicants, though that is not spelled out in the executive order itself.Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, who spoke alongside Trump from the Oval Office on Friday, said it would be a yearly fee for companies that hire H-1B workers. Officials said the fee would help ensure the visa is used to bring in workers who are actually very highly skilled and not to replace American workers."Either the person is very valuable to the company and America, or they're going to depart and the company is going to hire an American," Lutnick said, adding the changes would encourage companies to train Americans instead of bringing in foreign workers.
According to the executive order, the new fee requirement will take effect on September 21 and expire after one year, pending an extension.Some of the top tech companies sponsoring H-1B visas include Amazon, Microsoft, Google's parent company, Alphabet, Meta, and Apple. Because companies are required to disclose to the government what they pay H-1B workers, the data has offered insights into Big Tech salaries.Trump calls out tech companiesIn his executive order, Trump called out four tech companies that approved thousands of H-1B workers and also conducted layoffs. He did not name them, though they are likely Microsoft, Intel, Amazon, and Salesforce. Business Insider has reached out to the White House to confirm this.
Trump wrote about "one software company" that announced layoffs of over 15,000 employees, an "IT firm" that laid off 2,400 employees in Oregon in July, a company that has reduced its workforce by 27,000 employees since 2022, and a fourth company that eliminated 1,000 jobs in February.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
As Business Insider has previously reported, Microsoft has said it will shed about 15,000 employees this year, and Amazon has cut at least 27,000 employees since late 2022. Intel, which has previously found itself in the crosshairs of the Trump administration and is also getting a 9.9% stake from the government, has a major presence in Oregon, where it made cuts in July. The fourth company that Trump referred to was likely Salesforce.Gold Card visaTrump also signed an executive order on Friday establishing the "Gold Card" visa, an idea he floated earlier this year that would allow wealthy foreigners to obtain residency in the United States for a high cost.
The visa would allow wealthy individuals to pay $1 million for residency. Corporations can also sponsor individuals to get residency by paying a $2 million gift under the program, according to a new government website detailing the "Trump Gold Card."Do you have a story to share about H-1B visas? Contact this reporter at kvlamis@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
Donald Trump
Visa
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account