Anker issued a recall for five popular power banks back in June - here's the latest update | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
Anker issued a recall for five popular power banks back in June - here's the latest update
Anker recalled power banks in June - and now, newly released data from the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission sheds light on how widespread the issue really was.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
and
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 1:55 p.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeawaysBack in June, several Anker power banks were called for safety issues.The list included the popular PowerCore 10000 power bank.We've listed the steps to follow if you own one of the recalled products.Anker has had a rough summer. Between June and July 2025, the company issued two separate recalls for a number of power banks over the past few weeks. This has prompted a question from owners of the affected power banks to ask whether they should continue using a power bank if it's been recalled. Our answer? No.Also: The best power banks you can buy in 2025Before we go into a little more depth than the above one-word answer, here's a little background. Which power banks did Anker recall?Back in mid-June, Anker, along with the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), issued a recall for the Anker A1263 PowerCore 10000 power bank because Anker had received 19 reports of fires and explosions. These reports included two for minor injuries and 11 for property damage totaling over $60,700.This was a popular power bank, with over a million units sold between June 1, 2016, and December 31, 2022, through retailers such as Amazon, Newegg, and eBay, as well as on Anker's own website.Also: Best MagSafe battery packs 2025: I tested the best options to boost your phone's batteryThen, at the end of June, Anker recalled a further five power banks -- Anker Power Bank models A1257 and A1647, the Anker MagGo Power Bank model A1652, and the Anker Zolo Power Bank models A1681 and A1689 -- because of faulty batteries. According to Anker, "the likelihood of malfunction is considered minimal," but the recall was issued "out of an abundance of caution" because of a "risk of overheating, melting, smoke, or fire."How bad was the damage?Unfortunately, more people have gotten hurt. The United States Consumer Product Safety Commission (USCPSC) issued a new, separate recall on September 18 for the five power banks from late June: models A1647, A1652, A1257, A1681, and A1689. According to the firm, the recall affects about 481,000 units in total. It even received reports that there were 33 fire and explosion incidents, four of which resulted in minor burn injuries and one that caused "substantial property damage".What should I do if I have a recalled power bank?If you've bought an Anker power bank in the past nine years, it's probably a good idea to check it. Details of the first recall can be found here, and the other five power banks here. If you have an affected unit, Anker says to stop using the power bank, get confirmation that it is affected, get your replacement or gift card sorted, and then get rid of the power bank -- but, because of the risk of the power bank overheating or bursting into flames, not in the recycling or general trash. You need to contact your local Household Hazardous Waste (HHW) collection center or consult this EPA web page to find out how to dispose of it.Also: Unplugging these 7 household devices saved me $200 a year in electricityAirlines seem to be worried. Chinese aviation regulator has banned passengers from carrying the recalled power banks and those without the Chinese "3C" certification marking (short for China Compulsory Certification), after power banks were blamed for a fire that broke out on an Air Busan plane in January and a Hong Kong Airlines flight that was forced to make an emergency landing in March.As a result, some airlines, like Singapore Airlines, are outright "banning passengers from using power banks to charge phones and personal devices in-flight." Others are being less strict. Southwest Airlines enacted a new rule, "requiring passengers to keep power banks visible when in use".
The latest power banks to be recalled by Anker. AnkerOK, but some of you still have more questions, so let me address the most popular...
Why are Anker products so prone to recalls?
In my experience, Anker has been proactive about safety, and carried out regular supply chain audits.Also: ESR's new MagSafe iPhone 17 accessories are perfect for modern professionalsRecalls are a double-edged sword. While they promote safety, they can affect a company's reputation. I think it's a good thing that a company is being open about safety issues, and I don't have any concerns about using Anker products over products from any other company.
Show more
What's the problem with Anker's recalled power banks?
Anker has said that the issue involves "lithium-ion battery cells from a single vendor," but hasn't gone into much more detail. Lumafield put affected power banks into their CT scanner to see inside and concluded that the issue wasn't defective batteries but a design flaw that allowed the positive and negative terminals of the batteries to short circuit when the power bank is knocked about in day-to-day use.
Show more
Is it safe to continue to use a recalled power bank?
While the risks are low, I wouldn't chance it. Get a replacement or a gift card, get rid of the old one, and move on.If you've never seen how fast a lithium-ion battery can go from calm to chaotic, how ferociously hot it can burn, how tricky it can be to extinguish even with the right equipment, and how quickly a burning battery can fill a room with noxious, choking fumes, you might be forgiven for thinking that it's an easily manageable situation. Also: Should you buy rechargeable batteries in 2025? These USB-C ones say yesI'm here to tell you that it isn't. I've encountered accidental runaway lithium-ion batteries twice, and both times I ended up being lightly scorched and had to sit outside for a bit to clear my lungs afterwards.And both times it could have been a lot worse.
Show more
If these power banks are dangerous, how should I store them?
A very good question, because you don't want a dangerous power bank in a drawer or on your nightstand. Despite the low risk, my advice would be to keep the affected power bank in a metal tin -- a biscuit tin or some such container -- and possibly in a garage or outbuilding, away from flammable items, until it can be handed over for disposal.
Show more
The serial number on my power bank has worn out. What do I do?
This is annoying. Try to clean the area with a soft cloth to see if the numbers will show up. Also, you can try the macro mode on your smartphone's camera.Also: This Anker Nano has become my everyday power bank - here's whyIf this doesn't work, contact Anker with the information you have.
Show more
Get the morning's top stories in your inbox each day with our Tech Today newsletter.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Are portable solar power banks reliable in 2025? My buying advice after a year of testing
Don't buy a Bluetti before you see the $400 extras you can get for free
Unplugging these 7 household devices saved me $200 a year in electricity
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use