Best Replacement Prescription Lenses Online in 2025 | New Lenses for Old Frames
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessPersonal Care Eye Care
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online in 2025
Replace the lenses in your favorite frames with these top-quality online stores.
Our Experts
Written by
David Carnoy
Article updated on August 13, 2025 at 10:47 AM PDT
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Get the best discount
Check the site for discount codes or first-time buyer discounts (you usually have to provide your email address).
Know your prescription
It's important to know exactly what your prescription is (ideally a current one), although some companies can pull it from your old lenses if necessary.
Provide info about your frames
Some companies may expedite your order more quickly if you send them detailed info about your frames.
Return policy
Read the fine print before ordering.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Getting a new eyeglass prescription doesn't mean getting all new glasses. If you have a favorite pair of frames for your everyday glasses or need prescription sunglass frames, there are online stores that can replace just the lenses. I've had my lenses replaced in 15 pairs of glasses, so from experience, I know that doing this process online can be cheap, easy and fast. Our Picks
Best overall place to buy replacement lenses Lensabl
Jump to details
See at Lensabl
Jump to details
Best place to buy replacement lenses for fast delivery Overnight Glasses
Jump to details
See at Overnight Glasses
Jump to details
Best place for high-quality lenses Eyeglasses.com
Jump to details
See at Eyeglasses.com
Jump to details
Best place to buy lenses for all frame types ReplaceRxLenses
Jump to details
See at ReplaceRxLenses
Jump to details
Best value replacement lenses online LensDirect
Jump to details
See at LensDirect
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses Online in 2025
What's the best place to buy replacement lenses overall?
Best places to buy replacement lenses for glasses of 2025
Best overall place to buy replacement lenses
Best place to buy replacement lenses for fast delivery
Best place for high-quality lenses
Best place to buy lenses for all frame types
Best value replacement lenses online
Best replacement prescription lenses compared
Factors to consider when buying replacement lenses online
How we test replacement lenses
Whether your current lenses are scratched, based on an outdated prescription or you're switching back to glasses after years of wearing contact lenses, online services provide shipping kits or prepaid labels that allow you to mail in your glasses and they install the lenses and send them back. To help you find the best places to buy replacement prescription lenses, we tested different services by ordering midrange lenses, sometimes multiple times. We evaluated for lens quality, price, user-friendliness and turnaround time.What's the best place to buy replacement lenses overall?We have Lensabl at the top of our roundup for the best place to buy replacement lenses for glasses, because it's user-friendly and offers competitive pricing. Qualifying customers can even renew their eyeglass prescription with them online. If you're looking for fast service, Overnight Glasses is a great pick. I had good experiences with all the other online lens-replacement shops on this list. Note that all of them also sell frames and full prescription eyeglasses and sunglass packages.Best places to buy replacement lenses for glasses of 2025
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Best overall place to buy replacement lenses
Lensabl
Pros
Decent pricing
User-friendly site
Online vision test
Cons
No fast turnaround option
Although it offers full frame/lens packages, Lensabl puts its lens replacement service front and center and comes up high in search results when Googling "lens replacement." Its motto is "Your frames, our lenses," with prices starting at $97 for a basic pair of single-vision lenses. The budget new lens options are decent enough, but it does make a difference (in terms of sharpness and clarity) to step up to lenses more in the $150-plus range. You upload your prescription online and pick the type of lens you want, and then Lensabl sends you a box with a prepaid return shipping label. You simply mail in your old frame in the box (shipping is free). First-time prescription lens customers get 15% off. Lensabl does make prescription lenses for Bose Frames and other audio sunglasses. Notable site features: For $25, you can renew your prescription online. Not everybody qualifies to take the online eye exam -- you have to answer some questions to see if you qualify -- but if you do, Lensabl says, "All you need is your computer, [your] smartphone and about 15 minutes of time." Your results will be reviewed by an eye doctor or optometrist licensed in your state who will then issue you a new prescription via email.Current deals and coupons: All of Lensabl's deals and promo codes are displayed on its homepage.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Lensabl
Specs & Configurations
Shipping Info
Free, takes 2-5 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Return Policy
No returns/refunds. All sales final. If lens were incorrectly made, customers have 30-days to request a remake.Insurance Accepted
No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)Features Offered
Use your own frame, blue light filter, anti-glare (polarized), anti-scratch, UV protection
Add to compare
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Best place to buy replacement lenses for fast delivery
Overnight Glasses
Pros
Fast turnaround times
User-friendly site
Good selection of lens types
Cons
Expensive for rush jobs
As its name implies, Overnight Glasses can make you a new set of prescription glasses quickly -- and really quickly if you're willing to pay extra for a new pair of glasses. If you buy a frame/lens package, fast three- to four-day service is available for $9. (It takes slightly longer for progressive lens and bifocal lens types.) The quality of the lenses I got was as good as that from other replacement lens sites, so there's no sacrifice of prescription eyewear quality for speed.As for new lenses for your current frame, you ship your frames to Overnight Glasses and it'll replace your lenses with new ones in 48 hours. The service can do polarized, blue light, transitions and many other types, although progressives take an additional two days (so 72 hours total from the time your frames are received).If you're looking for a truly overnight option, the emergency, 24-hour rush service costs an additional $60 for single vision. As noted, a progressive lens order can take an additional two days, so the fastest you can get new progressive lenses is three days.Overnight makes lenses for Bose Frames and Amazon Echo Frames audio glasses.Notable site features: The site has a clean look and is easy to navigate. There are multiple shipping options.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Overnight Glasses
Specs & Configurations
Shipping Info
Free, takes 2 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Return Policy
7-day free returns or exchangesInsurance Accepted
No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)Features Offered
Anti-glare (polarized), anti-scratch, UV protection, water-repellent
Add to compare
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Best place for high-quality lenses
Eyeglasses.com
Pros
Huge selection
Replacement lens wizard
Helpful filters
Cons
Selection can be overwhelming
Eyeglasses.com has a huge selection of both frames and lenses and is also one of a small number of sites that offer a lens replacement service for existing frames, with prices starting at $48. As with all the other sites here, you simply choose the lens you want (that can be a little daunting because there are so many options) and you'll get sent a prelabeled box with which to return your frames, with free shipping both ways. If you don't know your prescription -- and don't want to change your current prescription -- you can opt to have Eyeglasses.com's technicians "read your lenses and duplicate them." The service isn't superspeedy in terms of turnaround time, but the lenses are high quality and the eyewear site has good online help options, including a Replacement Lenses Wizard and an online chat feature. Unlike Lensabl, which highlights its lens replacement service, Eyeglasses.com doesn't market the options front and center. Eyeglasses.com makes lenses for Bose Frames and Amazon Echo Frames audio glasses.Notable site features: Eyeglasses.com says it sells only "high-quality, individually made lenses made in the USA," and the sample glasses I tried had excellent lenses that gave me a very sharp image. There's a huge selection of lens options, and you get a "Perfect Lenses Guarantee" that allows you to send your glasses back if they don't work for you -- you can get a redo or a full refund, your choice.Current deals and coupons: 15% off for new customers in exchange for your email address.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Eyeglasses.com
Specs & Configurations
Shipping Info
Free, 1-6 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Return Policy
30-day free returns or exchangesInsurance Accepted
No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)Features Offered
Anti-glare (polarized), clip-on sets available
Add to compare
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Best place to buy lenses for all frame types
ReplaceRxLenses
Pros
Will replace lens for a wide variety of frame types
User-friendly
Collects specific info to help expedite order
Cons
No expedited turnaround
It's had shops in the New York area for a while, but ReplaceRxLenses is somewhat new to the online replacement-lens arena. My experience using this retailer was smooth, with a relatively quick turnaround time (about a week, but I was in New York). Its prices are competitive and slightly cheaper for some lens types.The site says what differentiates it from competitors is that it doesn't have an assembly-line format for fulfilling orders, where one worker is responsible for manufacturing the lenses, another is responsible for
tracing the frame and edging the lenses to fit the frame and
another might handle the final eyeglass inspection. "With us, one technician works on a customer's order from start to finish," a rep told me. "We believe this format results in a better end product, because there is almost no chance of information being lost or mistakes being made along the way."ReplaceRxLenses says it can do a replacement for prescription eyewear or replace nonprescription lenses for Bose, Amazon Echo, Snapchat Spectacles and many other audio/smart frames.Notable site features: The site says it has experience working with frame types and lenses that some other places can't handle. "We have plenty of experience working with sports frames, wraparound frames, vintage frames and extended range prescriptions," a rep told me. "Many other online replacement services can only work with certain frame types and up to certain prescriptions."The site tries to get as much information about a customer's frame beforehand so it can begin working on the order even before receiving the frame, which helps expedite the order. (I submitted a photo of my frame.)Current deals and coupons: 15% off for new customers or 10% off for returning customers in exchange for your email address (leave site to see offer).  ... Show more
Get it now
See at ReplaceRxLenses
Specs & Configurations
Shipping Info
Free, takes 2-7 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Return Policy
30-day free returns or exchangesInsurance Accepted
No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)Features Offered
Anti-scratch, anti-smudge, UV protection
Add to compare
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Best value replacement lenses online
LensDirect
Pros
Good pricing
Good lens quality
User friendly site
Cons
No expedited shipping option
LensDirect says it can make quality lenses for a wide array of frames -- "practically any frame unless it just absolutely doesn't make any fundamental sense like putting a +7.5 prescription on a semi rimless frame" -- and has its own machine in-house that can cut the lenses anytime (other retailers have this as well). "We make lens replacement more affordable than our competitors without sacrificing quality," a rep told me.LensDirect does now make replacement lenses for Bose and Amazon audio glasses, although it does require you to sign a waiver to work on them.My lens replacement took about a week, and the lens quality was high. After using discount codes, the cost for lenses I got was a bit less than from some competing sites like Lensabl.Notable site features: The site has a virtual try-on feature if you're buying a frame and lens package. When it comes to an older audience (people who wear progressive or bifocal lenses), lens options tend to be more affordable (with discount codes applied), specifically when it comes to the 1.67 high-index lens, which is 40% thinner and lighter than a standard CR39 lens. "Even to a younger audience who wants to take a cheap eyeglass frame and get exactly the lens they need, our CR39 and Polycarbonate lenses start off more affordable even for them," a rep said.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at LensDirect
Specs & Configurations
Shipping Info
Free, takes 1-3 business days (after processing and around two weeks to make the lenses)Return Policy
90-day free returns or exchanges on unopened products. DIY lenses have a 30-day return policy.Insurance Accepted
No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)Features Offered
Anti-scratch, anti-glare (polarized), UV protection
Add to compareBest replacement prescription lenses compared
LensablOvernight GlassesEyeglasses.comReplaceRXLensesLensDirect Shipping Info Free, takes 2-5 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Free, takes 2 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Free, 1-6 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Free, takes 2-7 business days (after processing and receiving the glasses)Free, takes 1-3 business days (after processing and around two weeks to make the lenses)Return Policy No returns/refunds. All sales final. If lens were incorrectly made, customers have 30-days to request a remake.7-day free returns or exchanges30-day free returns or exchanges30-day free returns or exchanges90-day free returns or exchanges on unopened products. DIY lenses have a 30-day return policy.Insurance Accepted No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)No (reimbursement available depending on insurance company)Features Offered Use your own frame, blue light filter, anti-glare (polarized), anti-scratch, UV protectionAnti-glare (polarized), anti-scratch, UV protection, water-repellentAnti-glare (polarized), clip-on sets availableAnti-scratch, anti-smudge, UV protectionAnti-scratch, anti-glare (polarized), UV protection
Factors to consider when buying replacement lenses online
Make sure you get the best discountMost of the prescription eyewear sites highlighted here for eyeglass lens replacement offer a discount for first-time customers. They also sometimes have codes for lens upgrades. Make sure you check for any deals before purchasing. Know your prescriptionIn most cases, you'll need to know your prescription and pupillary distance from your optometrist before you use an online glasses retailer, so make sure you get a hard copy the next time you get your vision checked. Once you have your current prescription, most of these websites will let you upload a picture of the prescription from your phone the first time you buy prescription eyewear. If you don't know your prescription, certain lens-replacement outfits in this roundup can simply duplicate the lenses you have in your existing frames. (If a lens is cracked or scratched, you may simply want to replace it if your prescription is current.)Provide as much information about your frames as possibleSome eyeglass lens-replacement sites will ask you to send a description or photo of your frame (and perhaps ask for a model number if you have one), so they can prep your order and process it faster. Most but not all existing frames can accept new prescription lenses.Return policyRead the fine print about returns before you purchase replacement lenses. Often, sites will accept returns, but only if they messed up your order in some way or a flaw was created in the lens production process.
How we test replacement lenses
We test online replacement lens services by ordering a set of replacement lenses from a site. We tend to order midrange lenses and, in some cases, we've ordered multiple times from the same site. We mainly evaluate the lenses for quality (how good they are comparable price points), turnaround times and how user-friendly the site is.
Prescription lenses FAQs
Can I replace lenses in glasses?
If you currently have a frame with prescription lenses, you should be able to replace those lenses with a fresh pair. Certain types of glasses that have more curved lenses -- such as those found in some sports glasses -- may be harder to replace. Just make sure you check with the company you’re using before sending in your frame.
Can you put old lenses in new frames?
You can put old lenses into a new frame as long as the new frame is the same as the old one and the lenses are still in good condition. Some eye care providers may be able to shape old lenses into the new frame, but it's not always possible.
Is it expensive to put new lenses in old frames?
Depending on the quality and type of lens you get, it can be expensive to put new lenses in old frames. If you are just getting basic lenses, it can be quite affordable, especially when buying from an online retailer.
What type of eyeglass lens is best?
For pure clarity, a glass or mineral glass lens is the best. Most people prefer polycarbonate lenses, which are lighter and more durable. High-index lenses are good for those who have strong prescriptions that would normally require thicker lenses. These high-tech plastic lenses end up being the same thinness as standard plastic or polycarbonate lenses that have a lighter prescription. You do have to pay more for high-index lenses. Arguably the best lenses are Trivex lenses, which are lightweight and durable and offer slightly better clarity than polycarbonate lenses. They are more expensive than plastic (CR-39) and polycarbonate lenses.
Can I get prescription lenses for Bluetooth audio glasses?
Most eyewear retailers make prescription lenses for audio glasses, like the Amazon Echo Frames and . Only a few have officially partnered with Bose, like Lensabl and the Bose Tempo sports model. Aside from the Tempo, most other audio glasses have pretty standard frames that accept prescription glasses. You can always call and ask whether the company can make lenses for whatever audio glasses you have based on your particular prescription.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews
Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks.
Read full bio
Personal Care Guides
Eye Care
Best Places to Buy Glasses Online
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses
Best Eye Drops
Best Places to Buy Contacts Online
Best Prescription Sunglasses
Best Blue Light Blocking Glasses
Dental Care
Best Electric Toothbrush
Quip Toothbrush Review
Best Invisible Braces
Best Teeth Whitening Strips and Toothpaste
Best Teeth Whitening Kits
Mental Health
Best Mental Health Apps
Best Teas for Stress and Anxiety
Best Fidget Toys for Anxiety
Best Online Therapy
Best Online Couples Therapy
Best Online Psychiatric Services
Betterhelp Online Therapy Review
Cerebral Review
Talkspace Online Therapy Review
Talkspace vs. Betterhelp
Other Personal Care
Best Sunscreen
Best Shower Filter
Best Hand Soap
Best Period Underwear
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.