r - Getting error with opening/reading .CEL files "Error in file(file, "rt") : cannot open the connection" - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Getting error with opening/reading .CEL files "Error in file(file, "rt") : cannot open the connection"
Ask Question
Asked
yesterday
Modified
yesterday
Viewed
34 times
Part of R Language Collective
0
I am at my wits end trying to get this program/code to work supplied by my class. I have a macbook and we are using the simpleaffy package that I have installed. When I try to run the supplied code below I am given either this error "Error in file(file, "rt") : cannot open the connection". I have gone into the "get info" tab and changed permissions to "read & write" and clicked the option to include folders within the folder in case this was a permissions error. Does anyone have any thoughts or suggestions to get this to work? Much appreciated.
pd = read.AnnotatedDataFrame("~/Documents/Biostats/celfiles", header=TRUE,
row.names=1, as.is=TRUE)
Data = ReadAffy(filenames=pData(pd)$FileName, phenoData=pd,
sampleNames= sampleNames(pd))
Redownloading the file in case corrupted, no change
Switching file location, no change
Changing file permissions
Changing working directory - no change
Checked list.files() which shows the .CEL files I am trying to use
TA sent new file with different names in case this would help. Got below error code:
Error in read.celfile.header(as.character(filenames[[1]])) :
Could not open file ~/Documents/Biostats/celfiles/celfiles/Low_1_HG-U133_Plus2.CEL
In addition: Warning messages:
In AllButCelsForReadAffy(..., filenames = filenames, widget = widget, : sampleNames not same length as filenames. Using filenames as sampleNames instead
In read.affybatch(filenames = l$filenames, phenoData = l$phenoData, : Incompatible phenoData object. Created a new one.
rmacos
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited yesterday
IRTFM
264k2222 gold badges380380 silver badges502502 bronze badges
asked yesterday
Daniele MartinezDaniele Martinez
1
New contributor
Daniele Martinez is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
1
3
Package 'simpleaffy' is a bioConductor package. You should provide enough information about your machine, R version,
package versions, BiocManager and BioConductor versions to assess possibility of version mismatch. (Use sessionInfo())You should also indicate whether that is actually a complete file name instead of the default MacOS practice of hiding extensions in the Finder. (It probably is a .cel file.) And you should indicate where the file can be found.
IRTFM
–
IRTFM
2025-09-18 00:18:00 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Add a comment
|
Related questions
283
node and Error: EMFILE, too many open files
0
reading data from a number text files in R to a single text file
2
Error in opening a CSV file with specifying row.name using R
Related questions
283
node and Error: EMFILE, too many open files
0
reading data from a number text files in R to a single text file
2
Error in opening a CSV file with specifying row.name using R
333
MacOS Catalina(v 10.15.3): Error: “chromedriver” cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified. Unable to launch the chrome browser
319
Getting a "This application is modifying the autolayout engine from a background thread" error?
0
R: filename list result not recognized for actually reading the file (filename character encoding problem)
3
row names supplied are of the wrong length in R
0
Error reading cel files. "All the CEL files must be of the same type"
Load 5 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
rmacos
See similar questions with these tags.
R Language
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Pressure treated or regular wood for temporary ramp?
A question regarding a family of one-relator groups
Drawing vertical and horizontal vectors along a Bézier curve (without local rotation)
description list with several items per description
How does Trump come up with the sizes of his lawsuits?
How can I create the following table with materials vertically centering
What happens when a creature with the See Invisibility spell is blinded?
Why is my battery being zapped?
Why do complex questions lead to simple elegant answers?
Short story about spaceship landing on Earth with shapeshifting alien aboard. It escapes by killing and duplicating the last crewman aboard
9/16/25 operations challenge
Why it is that a 64-bit EXE file (PE64) can contain a custom MS-DOS stub (a MZ executable), but not a custom 32-bit Windows stub?
Statistics for Theoreticians
Lewis & Short disagrees with Wiktionary and Latin Lexicon on vowel length?
Is the yeast used in chicken breading yeast or yeast extract
Determination of Target Frequency in Decoupling
To what extent do we define an irreproducible result?
Toilet seat positioning on thunder box
Why is the first homology group of the knot complement is a finitely generated abelian group?
Using Python Code as tool in QGIS
What is Sealord frequency used prior to entering restricted airspace?
Why is ASCII punctuation in that order?
"a bunch of random Xs {do/does}”
Short story about man deciding to end the stasis of eternal life on Earth
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-r
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093