Dow Jones Top Company Headlines at 3 AM ET: Jerry, of Ben & Jerry's, Quits Ahead of Unilever's Ice-Cream Spinoff | Drugmakers ... | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
Global News Select
Dow Jones Top Company Headlines at 3 AM ET: Jerry, of Ben & Jerry's, Quits Ahead of Unilever's Ice-Cream Spinoff | Drugmakers ...
Dow Jones Top Company Headlines at 3 AM ET: Jerry, of Ben & Jerry's, Quits Ahead of Unilever's Ice-Cream Spinoff | Drugmakers ...
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 17, 2025, 7:15:00 AM
Jerry, of Ben & Jerry's, Quits Ahead of Unilever's Ice-Cream Spinoff
Co-founder Jerry Greenfield said he decided to leave the ice-cream brand after 47 years because it no longer stood behind social justice issues that were core to its business.
----
Drugmakers Have Pledged to Invest $350 Billion in U.S. After Tariff Threat
GSK and Eli Lilly are the latest to unveil plans to add to manufacturing and increase other operations in America.
----
U.S. Tech Giants Pledge Over $40 Billion in U.K. Investments Ahead of Trump Visit
Firms including Microsoft, Alphabet and Nvidia said they will help expand the country's artificial-intelligence infrastructure over the next few years.
----
U.S. Investors, Trump Close In on TikTok Deal With China
Oracle, Silver Lake and Andreessen Horowitz are part of a consortium that would control an 80% stake.
----
Tencent Plans $1.27 Billion Debt Issuance
The Chinese technology giant plans to issue debt and raise $1.27 billion, joining peers aggressively securing capital to invest in artificial intelligence.
----
BHP to Shutter Coal Mine, Cut 750 Jobs
The world's largest miner by market value will shutter one of the coal mines it runs in Australia with Mitsubishi Corp., in response to soft coal prices and high royalties.
----
Chery Seeks to Raise Up to $1.2 Billion in Hong Kong IPO
The Chinese automaker joins a wave of companies rushing to list in Hong Kong, which is the top IPO destination so far this year.
----
LG Battery Unit Continues U.S. Projects After Raid
Hyundai's CEO earlier had said the disruption caused by the raid would set back construction of a Georgia battery plant by two or three months.
----
Rivian Is Building a Georgia Factory in the Face of an EV Slump
The plant, scheduled to open in 2028, would support the company's R2 sport-utility vehicle and smaller R3 crossover model.
----
Nestle Chairman to Step Down After Abrupt CEO Firing
The maker of Nescafe coffee said Paul Bulcke would step down earlier than planned after the ouster of former CEO Laurent Freixe earlier this month.
----
General Mills Expected to Report Softer Sales Wednesday
Analysts expect the maker of Lucky Charms and Cheerios to post $4.5 billion in net sales, down 7% from a year ago.
----
End of De Minimis Tariff Exemption Pushed Ssense Into Bankruptcy Protection
The luxury retailer is among the first to cite the tariff rule as a reason for restructuring.
----
Serta Lenders Denied $340 Million Asset Freeze Against Rival Group
Minority lenders had accused a majority group of dissipating company assets ahead of trial on a contested 2020 debt deal.
----
NYC Real-Estate Firm Nears Deal to Buy Troubled Office Landlord Paramount
Rithm Capital is seen edging out investment firm Blackstone and office owners SL Green and Vornado for the property portfolio.
----
StubHub's stock starts trading Wednesday. The IPO is a bet on the polarizing practice of ticket resale.
StubHub has faced criticism over the high price of secondary-market tickets, but the soon-to-be-public company says it serves a necessary function in the market.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
September 17, 2025 03:15 ET (07:15 GMT)
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
Managed-Futures Funds Look to Rebound. Can They Help Diversify Your Portfolio? Whipsaws hurt now, resilience matters later.
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
AMD: The Intel-Nvidia Collaboration Is Worth Watching but Not a Death Blow The deal doesn’t alter our thesis that AMD will carve out a piece of the AI pie over time.
Brian Colello, CPA Sep 18, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility