A weird partisan pattern of trust in the Fed : Planet Money : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
A weird partisan pattern of trust in the Fed : Planet Money A new study shows how partisan politics has long influenced whether Americans trust the Fed. And how, with Trump's second term, an old pattern may have changed.
Planet Money
The Economy Explained
Planet Money Podcast The Indicator Podcast Planet Money Newsletter Archive Planet Money Summer School About
Twitter Facebook
NPR
Planet Money
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
Planet Money
A weird partisan pattern of trust in the Fed
April 29, 20256:30 AM ET
Greg Rosalsky
Federal Reserve Bank Chair Jerome Powell announces that interest rates will remain unchanged during a news conference at the Federal Reserve's
William McChesney Martin building on June 12, 2024, in Washington, D.C.
(Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
Recently, when President Trump threatened to fire Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, financial markets flipped out. Then Trump insisted he wasn't going to fire Powell, but he still took time to criticize the Fed's interest-rate policy under Powell's leadership. Markets chilled out, a bit. This confrontation between the president and America's central bank inspired Planet Money to collaborate with its sister podcast The Indicator to make an episode that serves as a primer on the Federal Reserve. It explains why economists and investors tend to believe that an independent central bank — free of presidential meddling — is crucial to a stable, low-inflation economy. And it goes over a bit of the history of Trump's antagonistic relationship with the Fed under Powell, a man Trump
appointed to head the U.S. central bank in the first place.
Sponsor Message
As the episode explains, the Fed is supposed to be insulated from partisan politics. But a new study shows how partisan politics has long influenced how much faith Americans have in the Fed. And it's not as simple as members of one political party trusting the Fed, and members of the other party distrusting it. American faith in the Fed has been more like a pendulum that swings with presidential elections: people have tended to trust the Fed more when their party's leader sits in the White House. However, this study finds, after this most recent presidential election, the pendulum didn't swing. The old pendulum swing In the study, economists Carola Binder (at University of Texas at Austin), Cody Couture (at Hamilton College), and Abhiprerna Smit (at William & Mary) look at partisan views of the Federal Reserve. They first analyze survey data from Gallup Poll and the Michigan Survey of Consumers between 2001 and 2023. The economists find a clear pattern in this historical data: a huge predictor of whether respondents said they trusted the Fed was whether their political party controlled the White House. For instance, if a respondent was a Democrat, they were more likely to express trust in the Federal Reserve when President Obama was in office. If a respondent was a Republican, they were more likely to express trust in the Fed when President Bush was in office (independents, meanwhile, tended to always be the most distrustful of the Fed, whether a Democrat or Republican was in office). This is a factor, the economists find, that is "much larger than any demographic differences."
Sponsor Message
It's kinda weird because the White House doesn't call the shots at the Fed. The central bank has long been independent of the political branches in its day-to-day decision-making. Importantly, this phenomenon of Americans expressing trust in the Fed when their political party controlled the White House was true during President Trump's first term as well (even though, starting around 2019, President Trump began bashing Jerome Powell and the Fed's interest-rate policies). Republicans tended to have higher trust in the Fed than Democrats, during his first term. The economists wanted to see if anything has changed in President Trump's second term. Would this pattern repeat itself? Republicans definitely distrusted the Fed more than Democrats during President's Biden's tenure. Would they, like they had in the past, begin trusting the Fed more than Democrats now that a Republican controlled the White House? This time the pendulum didn't swing To answer this question and more, the economists conducted an online survey in early 2025 of more than 3,000 Americans. They did this survey in two waves, shortly before and then shortly after Trump's inauguration. The economists' survey suggests that, actually, this time is different. Republicans expressed lower trust in the Fed than Democrats did (and independents are in the middle, between Democrats and Republicans, in how much they trust the Fed). The economists offer a couple of potential explanations. One is that the explosion of inflation that began in 2021 "caused a persistent erosion of Fed credibility among Republicans." Another explanation: Republicans have become "more skeptical of technocracy" – or, Deep-State experts, if you will – "regardless of who controls the Presidency." Maybe a simpler explanation is that, with Trump publicly bashing Powell and the Fed in the media, his supporters now consider the Fed, under Powell, as being antagonistic to their political tribe. Binder, Couture, and Smit have another kinda weird finding: Despite Republicans expressing less faith in the Federal Reserve, they were also significantly more likely to believe that inflation will be lower in the future. It's weird because the Federal Reserve's biggest job is managing inflation. So many Republican respondents were like, nah, we don't trust the Fed. But also, inflation is going to go significantly down.
Sponsor Message
The economists' survey did offer respondents space to write why they believed what they believed. And — despite the potential inflationary impact of Trump's tariffs and immigration crackdown — Republican respondents often gave answers that suggested they believed Trump would single-handedly bring down inflation through, for example, business deregulation or greater energy production. Democrats, meanwhile, expressed the highest faith in the Fed. Yet they were more likely to express fears about inflation. Many of them tended to cite tariffs as a reason why they believed inflation would get worse. Many others just said basically, because, you know, Trump. Some of these economists' findings may be a bit puzzling to those who closely watch the Fed. But maybe it becomes less puzzling when you realize: many Americans don't really understand what the Fed is or what it does! They probably just take their cues from the leader of their political tribe. And, for the first time in decades, the president has been sending a strong signal that the Fed is not doing what he wants.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor