Box CEO: These Are the 3 Things Startup Founders Should Do - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
Box's CEO says these are the 3 things startup founders should do — and it includes a reading list
By
Kwan Wei Kevin Tan
Box CEO Aaron Levie said startup founders have a limited window within "two or three years from now" to start a great company amid the AI boom.
Box
2025-09-17T04:34:51Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Aaron Levie, 40, cofounded the cloud-storage giant Box in 2005.
Levie said reading books like "The Innovator's Dilemma" will give founders an edge over competitors.
Founders have a limited window to leverage the AI boom and start a great company, he added.
Aaron Levie, the cofounder and CEO of cloud-storage giant Box, said founders need to build strong teams and ride disruptive trends to launch successful startups.
Levie was speaking to participants at startup incubator Y Combinator's AI Startup School, which ran from June 16 to 17, when he was asked for advice on building a startup. Levie's remarks were published on Y Combinator's YouTube channel on Tuesday.The 40-year-old said there were three things startup founders should do to be more effective.
First, Levie recommended that founders read three books: "The Innovator's Dilemma" by Clayton Christensen, "Crossing the Chasm" by Geoffrey Moore, and "Blue Ocean Strategy" by Renée Mauborgne and W. Chan Kim."If you do what's in those books, and you are going after the B2B market, I guarantee you, you will be 10 times better off than any other startup that is just starting from scratch," Levie said."You will have a way to think about markets, disruption, what incumbents are vulnerable, and which ones aren't. If you really deeply internalize them, you will be so much better off," he added.
Second, Levie said that founders should try to assemble an "incredible founding team" to deal with the challenges that come with running a new business."I know solo founders, that will happen for sure, but just try and grab one friend. They could be the least technical friend of all time," Levie said."Just be in the grind with somebody because you're going to have more fun. You're going to see through more difficult times together. So have a team that you really are excited to work with to kind of get through anything," he added.
Third, Levie said it was important for founders to identify disruptive forces like AI and develop business ideas that can leverage them.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"If your market is not truly transformed by AI, don't touch it. It's just not worth it because you're going to be fighting against a headwind that is just unnecessary to fight against," he said.Levie said founders have a limited opportunity to start a great company within "two or three years from now" amid the AI boom.
"Be ambitious because these windows don't come for more than 10 to 20 years. So I would exploit that, take advantage of that," Levie said."In five years from now, you can be less ambitious, but in the next four years, you've got to go big because there are these windows that give you that opportunity," he added.Representatives for Levie at Box did not respond to a request for comment at Business Insider.
This isn't the first time Levie has emphasized the importance of tapping into AI to supercharge one's career trajectory.Levie said in an episode of the a16z podcast that aired in July that fresh graduates should master AI and tout their familiarity with it to employers."If you're a company, you should be prioritizing this talent that's just like: 'Why does it take you guys two weeks to research a market to enter? I can do that in deep research and get an answer to you in 30 minutes," he said.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account