This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
Credit: GEEKOM
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 13 hours ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
GEEKOM Mini PC AX8 Max
$529
$749
Save $220
If you're looking for a mini PC with a lot of power and the ability to expand, the GEEKOM AX8 Max is going to be the one to go with. Not only does it deliver impressive power right out of the box, but you can also attach and external graphics card if you want. It's now $220 off for a limited time, bringing it down to its best price yet.
$529 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
If you're looking for a mini PC that can really do it all, then the GEEKOM AX8 Max is going to be a good choice. Not only are you getting impressive specifications right out of the box, but there's also room to upgrade as well. Perhaps even more exciting is that you can now score a pretty good discount on this mini PC, with Amazon knocking $220 off the usual retail price, dropping it down to $529 for a limited time.
Lots of power, perfect for gaming
Credit: GEEKOM
The beauty of the mini PC is that it can do so much in such a compact body. When it comes to the specifications, this model features an AMD Ryzen 7 8745HS processor, 32GB of DDR5 RAM, AMD Radeon 780M graphics, and 1TB of M.2 SSD storage. So, whether you're going to be typing up documents, surfing the internet, playing games, or editing photos — this mini PC will be able to handle it. When it comes to the connectivity, this device also has quite a bit. With four USB-A ports on the front, along with a 3.5mm audio jack. At the rear, you get two USB-C ports, two HDMI, two Ethernet, and two USB-A. And there's also wireless connectivity with Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3. The USB-C ports can handle support for an external GPU, which is a great way to get more power from this mini PC. The mini PC comes preloaded with Windows 11 Pro, and gets excellent cooling thanks to the built-in fan and aluminum body. This mini PC features pretty much everything you need, and also delivers at a price that can't be ignored. So act quickly, or you'll miss out on the steep $220 discount.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
2 days ago
These 7 incredible games won’t ever hold your hand, and you’ll love them for it
2 days ago
Some of Intel's future chips will integrate Nvidia RTX GPUs
2 days ago
News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
3 days ago
I built a pocket NAS with a Raspberry Pi and an NVMe drive
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I tried using DietPi Linux with Xfce on an old laptop and it exceeded my expectations
There's only one clipboard manager you need, and it's not the one built into Windows
3 smart ways I use Obsidian to supercharge my productivity
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.