Samsung's 4TB 990 Evo Plus SSD drops to a new all-time low of 5 cents per gigabyte — speedy and spacious drive drops to $199 at B&H | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
PC Components
Storage
SSDs
Samsung's 4TB 990 Evo Plus SSD drops to a new all-time low of 5 cents per gigabyte — speedy and spacious drive drops to $199 at B&H
Deals
By
Stewart Bendle, Matt Safford
published
15 September 2025
A fast, spacious drive for your game library or general work.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Future)
Samsung's excellent 990 EVO Plus 4TB was already one of the best bargains in the 4TB M.2 space, at its previous low price of around $230. But at a new all-time low price of just $199 at B&H (with a $40 coupon applied automatically), it's an absolute steal for anyone who needs speed and roomy storage.Similar 4TB options in the same price range mostly deliver lesser performance, with some featuring slower QLC flash memory, rather than the TLC in Samsung's drive. The 990 EVO Plus 4TB's discount also brings the drive into price parity with technically faster 2TB PCIe 5.0 x4 SSD pricing. So if you don't need the fastest speeds possible (which generally doesn't matter for gaming or most mainstream tasks), you can get twice the storage for the same price or less than cutting-edge alternatives.
Grab this deal at B&H
The 990 Evo Plus employs Samsung's proprietary 5nm-based Piccolo controller, which can be used in PCIe 4.0 x4 or PCIe 5.0 x2 configurations, depending on your setup. The drive uses 236-layer (V8) TLC V-NAND but is DRAM-less, and instead focuses on HMB to compensate. The 990 Evo Plus delivers good to great all-around performance, and is quite power efficient whilst still achieving sequential read and write speeds of 7,250/6,300 MB/s. The random reads and writes, too, stand at an impressive 1,050K IOPS and 1,400K, respectively.
View Deal
For gaming, the Samsung 990 EVO Plus competes with the best PCIe 4.0 drives, and in our benchmarking tests using 3DMark, it finishes mid-table or slightly above. Each round of tests involved stress-testing the drive based on standard gaming activities such as loading games, saving progress, installing game files, and recording gameplay video streams.
Image 1 of 3(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)
If you're PC or PlayStation 5 is constantly running out of space to install your game library, this is a good way of instantly expanding your capacity. Having up to 4TB of space means you can install the latest AAA titles without worrying about shuffling off other games to make room.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Gaming
Samsung
See all comments (0)
Matt SaffordAfter a rough start with the Mattel Aquarius as a child, Matt built his first PC in the late 1990s and ventured into mild PC modding in the early 2000s. He’s spent the last 15 years covering emerging technology for Smithsonian, Popular Science, and Consumer Reports, while testing components and PCs for Computer Shopper, PCMag and Digital Trends.
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.