8 Best Sleep Headphones of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Sleep Tech
Best Sleep Headphones of 2025, Tested by Sleep and Headphone Experts
To help you find the best sleep headphones, a sleep expert and headphone expert team up to narrow down your choices.
Aly Lopez Former Writer I Aly Lopez was a writer on the sleep and wellness team at CNET. She tested, researched and reviewed sleep and health-related products, technology and trends. She received her bachelor's degree in sociology from Central College and is a certified sleep science coach from the Spencer Institute. Aly is passionate about helping others improve their lives by writing about ways to get better sleep and improve their overall health and wellness.
See full bio
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Aly Lopez
,
David Carnoy
Aug. 25, 2025
8:26 p.m. PT 17 min read
Ozlo Sleepbuds Best overall sleep headphones
$349 at Ozlo
QuietOn 3.1 Earbuds Best active noise-canceling headphones
$290 at HearFIT
Manta Sound Sleep Mask Best sleep mask with headphones
$155 at Manta Sleep
SoundOff Sleep Earbuds Best noise-masking sleep headphones
$150 at SoundOff
SleepPhones by AcousticSheep Best sleep headband for side sleepers
$100 at Amazon
Musicozy 5.2 Sleep Headphones Best budget headband headphones for sleep
$30 at Amazon
Maxrock Sleeping Earbuds Best budget wired earbuds for sleeping
$16 at Amazon
Anker Sleep A20 Earbuds Best wireless earbuds with Bluetooth for sleep
$180 at Soundcore
Show more (3 items)
Table of Contents
Best Sleep Headphones of 2025, Tested by Sleep and Headphone Experts
What are the best sleep headphones overall?
Best headphones for sleeping in 2025
Best overall sleep headphones
Best active noise-canceling headphones
Best sleep mask with headphones
Best noise-masking sleep headphones
Best sleep headband for side sleepers
Best budget headband headphones for sleep
Best budget wired earbuds for sleeping
Best wireless earbuds with Bluetooth for sleep
How we test sleep headphones
What to consider when choosing sleep headphones
How sound affects sleep
Is it safe to wear headphones while sleeping?
What sounds are best for sleep?
Cole Kan/CNETIf you're a light sleeper who's sensitive to sound, then you know how difficult it can be to catch some Zs. Fortunately, devices like sleep headphones now exist, and they're designed to help you get consistent, quality rest no matter what's going on around you. I, a CNET sleep team expert, teamed up with David Carnoy, CNET executive editor and resident headphone expert, to find the best sleep headphones, ranging from wireless Bluetooth earbuds and headbands to active noise-canceling, over-ear headphones. We considered price, comfort, battery life, sound quality and special features during our testing. What are the best sleep headphones overall?The Ozlo Sleepbuds take the crown as the best overall sleep headphones thanks to their comfortability and functionality. In addition to streaming your own audio, you can block out extraneous noises by listening to soothing soundscapes from its built-in sound library. These headphones also have a neat alarm feature. What We Updated: July 2025Updated product pricing and noted that the A20 Sleep Earbuds are currently out of stock. List selections remain unchanged.Best headphones for sleeping in 2025
David Carnoy/CNET
Ozlo Sleepbuds
Best overall sleep headphones
$349 at Ozlo
$349 at Amazon
Like
Has a sound library
You can stream your own audio
They’re great at noise masking
Comfortable for all sleeper types
Don't like
That $350 price tag is pretty expensive
You have to keep the case nearby for streaming
Battery life Up to 10 hoursANC, PNC or other Passive noise cancelingHeadphone type In-earConnection type Bluetooth When they were released in 2018, Bose's noise-masking Sleepbuds were hailed as game-changers for light sleepers and those dealing with sleeping partners who snored. Alas, Bose ran into some issues with the battery on the original model and the second-gen version and ended up discontinuing the Sleepbuds, much to the chagrin of a lot of folks who really liked them. Well, three former Bose engineers acquired the rights to the Sleepbuds and have now come out with new Sleepbuds under their new Ozlo brand. They feature the same design as the original Sleepbuds -- the buds and charging case essentially look identical -- but have a key new feature: You can now stream other audio to the buds from your phone over Bluetooth (the original Sleepbuds just stored the noise-masking sounds on the buds and didn't allow for streaming music).Why we like these sleep headphones: One of the Sleepbuds' biggest strengths is how tiny they are and how comfortably they fit most people's ears (they come with four different-sized ear tips). I didn't have any wearability issues with them, even though I'm a side sleeper. They're not active noise-canceling earbuds, but they have good passive noise isolation and do a very good job eliminating ambient sound when you apply one of the masking sounds, whether it's waves crashing on the beach, falling rain or the crackling of a burning fire. You can also set a personal alarm to go off in your ears so your sleeping partner isn't disturbed, and the buds can sense when you've fallen asleep while listening to music and automatically kick in your chosen noise-masking sound. Finally, there are also some sleep-monitoring features.Who should get them: While testing, we found these headphones comfortable in every sleeping position. This is easily one of the best sleep headphones for side sleepers out there.Who shouldn’t: The main drawback of these earbuds is the battery life. It's only rated for 10 hours, which is significantly less than many of the others on this list. Another quirk is that you have to keep the buds' case nearby because the case is used for streaming and charging. So if that's a big factor for you, you might want to look elsewhere. All in all, I was impressed with this new iteration of Sleepbuds and hope there are no battery issues going forward.-David Carnoy, CNET executive editor
$349 at Ozlo
$349 at Amazon
Aly Lopez/CNET
QuietOn 3.1 Earbuds
Best active noise-canceling headphones
$290 at HearFIT
Like
Effective low-frequency noise cancellation
Small earbuds create a comfortable and secure fit, even for side sleepers
Long battery life
Can sleep in any position
Don't like
The $277 price tag pushes them to the expensive side
Can't play your own audio
Won't remove or block all sounds
Battery life 28 hoursANC, PNC or other Active noise canceling (ANC)Headphone type In-earConnection type None The QuietOn 3.1 Sleep Earbuds are nearly three times smaller than the Apple AirPods. They effectively cancel lower-frequency, consistent sounds such as snoring, car traffic, a running dishwasher or the bass from songs your annoying neighbor blasts at midnight. The earbuds come with foam tips in four sizes so you can find the right fit for you.Why we like these sleep headphones: The QuietOn 3.1 Earbuds come with a compact carrying case for easy traveling and charging. The headphones' materials are high-quality and durable and the battery life is impressive, lasting up to 28 hours on a single charge. They're expensive at nearly $300 but if you're consistently losing sleep because of snoring and other disruptive noises, these may be worth it.Who should get them: The QuietOn 3.1 Earbuds are surprisingly tiny and light, fitting snugly into your ears so you can sleep in every position, including your side -- although, at first, I had to adjust my head while sleeping on my side to prevent unwanted pressure from the earbud against the pillow. I typically don't like wearing earbuds but I found these to be more comfortable than most other brands I've tried. For active noise cancellation to work correctly, you have to wear the right size of foam tip in your ears. The fit should be snug and airtight, which may be uncomfortable for those with extremely sensitive ear canals. I tried the XS and small sizes before finding the medium to be much more effective at reducing the noises around me.Who shouldn’t: These headphones do not have Bluetooth, so don't get them if you want to listen to your own music. Instead, they actively cancel out ambient sounds by generating opposite waveforms against the noise. This technology doesn't create any sound you can hear, like faint white noise, contrary to what I had expected. They're like advanced earplugs -- the goal is quietude. It's important to note that these headphones do not block everything. You can still hear higher-frequency sounds and sudden noises, which can be good if you want to hear certain things, such as your alarm clock.I tried a few simulations and found that it significantly reduced lower-frequency sounds. As for snoring, I could still hear it faintly next to me when the snoring simulation was at full volume, but it was much less noticeable.Editor's note: The QuietOn 3.1 earbuds are now out of stock, so we included a link to the QuietOn 4 earbuds in their place.
$290 at HearFIT
Aly Lopez/CNET
Manta Sound Sleep Mask
Best sleep mask with headphones
$155 at Manta Sleep
Like
Sleep mask and headphones in one, so it’s extra convenient
Adjustable eyecups
Machine washable after removing electronics
Great for daytime napping
Don't like
Bulkier design might be annoying for some
Velcro strap is not very sticky
On the expensive side at $155
Battery life Up to 20 hoursANC, PNC or other Noise maskingHeadphone type Over-ear headbandConnection type Bluetooth We chose the Manta Sound Sleep Mask as the best sleep mask with headphones. It has tapered C-shaped eyecups that you can move and adjust to fit comfortably. I love that the eyecups are spacious enough to prevent pressure on your eyes and keep your eyelashes from being smushed -- a bothersome element of most other sleep masks.Why we like these sleep headphones: The adjustable C-shaped eyecups allow you to lie comfortably in any position, including side sleeping. It's surprisingly comfortable, considering its bulkier design. I've never woken up at night because the mask caused discomfort. Thanks to its perforated design for ventilation, it doesn't make me overheat as I thought it would. With a battery life of up to 20 hours, you can wear Manta Sleep for two to three nights without charging it.Who should get them: I think these are some of the best sleep headphones for side sleepers that you can get. Not to mention, the Manta Sound Sleep Mask's sound quality is impressive. Like most other sleep headphones, songs with heavy bass sound slightly tinny at full blast but at around half to three-quarters volume are perfectly acceptable. These headphones do a great job of creating more of a surround-sound experience and the speakers are adjustable, so you can slide them to wherever is comfortable on your ears.Who shouldn’t: My only qualm is that it tends to slide off at some point as I toss and turn so I wish the velcro on the back was grippier. It effectively blocks out the light in our bedroom, which is saying a lot because we live in the heart of a city and our bedroom has large windows with only a day shade. The more affordable Lightimetunnel Sleep Headphones from Amazon are ergonomic and made of soft, breathable material that's comfortable for wearing over your eyes.Read more about the Manta Sound Sleep Mask in our full review.
$155 at Manta Sleep
Dillon Lopez/CNET
SoundOff Sleep Earbuds
Best noise-masking sleep headphones
$150 at SoundOff
Like
Pink noise effectively masks snoring
Battery lasts up to 16 hours
Comfortable, moldable fit
Comes with a recharging case
Good for any sleeping position
Don't like
Cannot play your own audio
Expensive at $180
Have to adjust volume on each earbud separately
Battery life Up to 16 hoursANC, PNC or other Noise maskingHeadphone type In-earConnection type None The SoundOff Sleep Earbuds have unique functionality and design. There's no Bluetooth connection, so you can't play your audio; instead, these headphones use proprietary technology to emit a pink noise that specifically masks the frequencies of snoring and other noises that can disturb your sleep.Why we like these sleep headphones: With its bendy, moldable material and distinctive shape that hugs around the back of your ear like a hearing aid, the SoundOff Sleep Earbuds stay on securely -- much better than others we tested. They're also comfortable for all sleep positions, including side sleeping and combination sleepers who flop around at night. The memory foam tips mold nicely to your ears, creating a snug fit. Each headphone has a volume button on the bottom, so you have to adjust them individually. I personally don't love having to adjust them separately, but it could come in handy in certain scenarios -- such as wanting to wear only one earbud or having hearing loss or sensitivities in one ear and not the other.They come with a neat charging case that can charge your SoundOff Earbuds for up to seven days before they need to be charged again. For that reason, they're super portable and great for traveling.Who should get them: These headphones emit a pink noise that sounds like ocean waves, which is a calming soundscape shown to improve sleep. Pink noise has high and low frequencies, helping to drown out distracting noises of various tones and pitches. These headphones don't completely block out super loud noises (with the TV on high volume, I could still faintly hear it through the headphones), but they sufficiently mask out most sounds -- especially snoring. My partner spends a good chunk of the night snoring and I can't hear him at all with these on.Who shouldn’t: These earbuds are comfortable (even for smaller ears), yet take some getting used to. Whenever I take them out after wearing them for a while, I've noticed that it leaves a lingering sensation of the earbuds still being in and around my ears for a while -- but again, I have particularly sensitive ears. The Bedphones Sleep Headphones are another highly rated option. They have super thin on-ear speakers with a wire that wraps around your ears. You can choose between wired and wireless. Each comes with an in-line microphone, so you can also answer phone calls with them.
$150 at SoundOff
Aly Lopez/CNET
SleepPhones by AcousticSheep
Best sleep headband for side sleepers
$100 at Amazon
Like
Thin and comfortable
Various sizes and fabric options
Hypoallergenic, machine-washable band
Long battery life
Can use for sleep or exercise
Don't like
Does not mask noises well
On the expensive side for the quality at $120
With its various colors, sizes and material options, you can find the perfect SleepPhones Headband for your preferences. I tested a small size of the wireless Bluetooth option in the breeze fabric and I like how snug it is around my head. It doesn't slide around too much as I switch positions at night.Why we like these sleep headphones: The SleepPhones Headband by AcousticSheep is soft and comfortable. I appreciate that the battery lasts up to 24 hours on a single charge and that the band is machine-washable once you remove all the electronic components. I also appreciate that these are multi-purpose headphones.You can also wear this band while working out, but if you plan on doing that, I recommend the moisture-wicking breeze fabric option rather than the fleece. I also advise choosing the breeze fabric if you sleep hot, as the material is more breathable. On the flip side, the fleece option is ideal for those who want a warm and cozy headband. The brand also offers RunPhones Headphones specifically for working out and running.Who should get them: This thin headband is comfortable in any sleeping position, including your side. You can adjust the position of the speakers by sliding them to the correct spot over your ears inside the headband. The main Bluetooth module piece is on the back of the headband, so I can feel it slightly when lying on my back, but it's not uncomfortable or bothersome. Who shouldn’t: If you're listening to a song with a lot of bass on full blast, the sound quality isn't the best (and my partner could hear it lying next to me). If you're wearing these to bed, you're likely listening to gentle soundscapes, an audiobook or podcast or calming music; in those instances, the sound quality is perfectly fine (and my partner could not hear it). The SleepPhones won't mask all the noises around you -- I could still hear our white noise machine and the television on low while wearing these headphones and listening to meditation music.
$100 at Amazon
Dillon Lopez/CNET
Musicozy 5.2 Sleep Headphones
Best budget headband headphones for sleep
$30 at Amazon
Like
Lightweight and comfortable
Good sound quality
Versatile; suitable for sleeping and exercising
Affordable option for people on a budget
Don't like
Have to charge often
Slides around if you switch positions a lot while sleeping
Battery life Up to 14 hoursANC, PNC or other Noise maskingHeadphone type Over-ear headbandConnection type Bluetooth The Musicozy 5.2 Sleep Headphones are nice for this price. They won't remove extraneous noises like noise-canceling headphones do, but the sound quality is impressive. The speakers are adjustable, so you can move them within the band to fit comfortably over your ears. It's often on sale for less than $20 at Amazon.Why we like these sleep headphones: The spandex-nylon material of these headphones is light and breathable. I found the band so comfortable that I forgot I was wearing it during the day as I worked, which leads me to my next point. In addition to sleeping, the Musicozy Headphones are great for listening to audio while working, doing yoga, meditating or exercising -- and a bonus if you're exercising outdoors in cooler weather as they'll provide a little extra warmth. Note: It will not fit under your helmet if you try to wear the headband while skiing or snowboarding. I tried.This headband has a wireless Bluetooth connection and can play continuously for up to 14 hours, providing more than a night's sleep on one charge. I've found it's closer to 10 to 12 hours, and I've been charging it daily.Who should get them: These headphones are going to be most comfortable for back and stomach sleepers. I found them decently comfortable while on my side -- I just had to position my head slightly so it wasn't pressing the speaker into the side of my head.At full blast, cheaper headphones sometimes produce crackling or static sounds -- but not these. My partner could hear my music slightly in bed when I had it at full volume, but half volume was plenty loud for wearing while sleeping. If you prefer to keep your phone out of reach to avoid scrolling at night (guilty as charged), you can easily adjust the volume with the buttons on the front of the headband instead of your phone.Who shouldn’t: I found that the Musicozy sleep headphones tended to move around when I was sleeping, which tends to happen with sleep headbands. If you still want affordable sleep headphones that serve multiple purposes, check out Musicozy&apos;s Sleep Mask Headphones. The technology is the same as the cheaper version, but they have a sleep mask shape to block out light, making them great for sleeping and traveling.
$30 at Amazon
Aly Lopez/CNET
Maxrock Sleeping Earbuds
Best budget wired earbuds for sleeping
$16 at Amazon
Like
Affordable
Small, lightweight earbuds
Comfortable for back sleeping
You don’t have to charge them
Don't like
Not great for side sleeping
Wire may get tangled when sleeping
Battery life N/AANC, PNC or other Noise maskingHeadphone type In-earConnection type Wired I found the Maxrock USB-C Sleeping Earbuds to be shockingly comfortable. The soft and squishy silicone earbuds are on the smaller side, which works better for my small ear canals (regular earbuds like AirPods are too large and uncomfortable for me). The tips of the earbuds have a double-layer design that fits snugly for better sound quality. I can wear them in my ears for an extended period without my ear canals feeling sore like other earbuds tend to.Why we like these sleep headphones: Given their size, the tiny speakers in each earbud provide surprisingly decent sound quality. It's not great if you're listening to a song on full blast, but it's ideal for listening to audiobooks, podcasts or relaxing soundscapes and music at a lower volume while sleeping or working. These earbuds are also excellent for traveling and flying and come with a nice little carrying case.Who should get them: The Maxrock Sleeping Earbuds are perfectly comfortable when sleeping on your back. I eventually experienced slight discomfort and pressure from the earbuds while sleeping on my side and stomach, and I didn't appreciate the cord falling over my face. Regardless, they're an excellent value for the quality at this price and are best suitable for back sleepers who don't move often throughout the night.Who shouldn’t: If you’re a side sleeper looking for wired earbuds, this one isn’t it. The wire is my main qualm when sleeping with these budget headphones. If you toss and turn at night, as I do, a wireless set is better to avoid getting tangled or accidentally ripping one out while switching positions. This particular set of headphones connects with a USB-C port. If you're looking for affordable wired headphones for sleeping with a 3.5 mm audio jack, check out the cheaper Maxrock Sleep Earplugs instead.Keep in mind that wired earbuds have the potential to be a nuisance (or even unsafe) if you toss and turn while sleeping.
$16 at Amazon
Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNET
Anker Sleep A20 Earbuds
Best wireless earbuds with Bluetooth for sleep
$180 at Soundcore
Like
Sound library and streaming capabilities
Flat, ergonomic design works for side sleeping
Great quality for the price
Don't like
Do not actively cancel noise
Anker's second-generation sleep buds offer some modest but important improvements, including better battery life and new "Twin-Seal" ear tips instead of single-layer ear tips that provide a tighter, more comfortable fit and 3x better passive noise reduction, according to Anker. Like the earlier Sleep A10 buds, the Sleep A20 buds are tiny and lightweight and have a good value compared to sleep buds like the Ozlo Sleepbuds, which cost more and have similar features.Why we like these sleep headphones: Their flat design means they fit entirely inside your ear (or at least most ears), making them suitable for side sleeping with your ear resting against the pillow. To be clear, there is no active noise canceling. The buds themselves passively block out some ambient noise. Then you can choose to play one of a wide selection of sleep noises, including white and brown noise, plus the typical soothing sounds of nature (rain, chirping birds, fire crackling, waves crashing) that help mask external sounds like your partner's snoring.The Sleep A20s also feature the ability to play your own music and audio via Bluetooth 5.3 from your phone or another device. The sound isn't half bad, considering how small the buds are. They're a bit bass-shy but should sound "good enough" for most folks.As mentioned, the battery life has also been improved. You can now get up to 14 hours on a single charge for sleep sounds or closer to 10 hours if you're using Bluetooth. The charging case stores an additional 55 hours.Who should get them: If you want sleep headphones that are comfortable for side sleepers and don’t care about noise canceling, you’ll like the Anker Sleep A20 Earbuds. With their MEMS sensor, these headphones can also track your sleeping positions and movements throughout the night, providing sleep data and analytics. You can also set an alarm that sounds on the buds so only you, not your sleeping partner, hear it. The Sleep A20 Earbuds are among the most feature-rich sleep buds I've tested.Who shouldn’t: They're quite comfortable for in-ear earbuds, although if you don't like having an ear tip covering your ear canal, I can't guarantee you'll be able to wear them all night. I like the fit of the Ozlo buds slightly better, but the Sleep A20 buds fit my ears well overall.Stay tuned for our full review of the new Soundcore A30 Sleep Earbuds, recently released on Kickstarter.-David Carnoy, CNET executive editor
$180 at Soundcore
Best headphones for sleeping compared
BrandTypeNoise BlockingBattery LifePrice Ozlo Sleepbuds EarbudNoUp to 10 hours$349Anker Sleep A20 Earbuds EarbudNoUp to 14 hours$120QuietOn 3.1 Earbuds EarbudYesUp to 28 hours$290Manta Sound Sleep Mask Sleep mask comboNoUp to 20 hours$143SoundOff Sleep Earbuds EarbudNoUp to 16 hours$150SleepPhones by AcousticSheep Headband NoUp to 24 hours$40Musiccozy 5.2 Sleep Headphones Headband NoUp to 14 hours$16Maxrock Sleeping Earbuds EarbudNoN/A$16
Our CNET editors have tested a variety of headphones for sleep over the years. Aly Lopez/CNETHow we test sleep headphonesOur experts analyze the following criteria when testing and reviewing sleep headphones and earbuds for sleeping:Comfort: In the end, sound quality and noise cancellation are irrelevant if the sleep headphones are uncomfortable. We tested the headphones in each sleeping position (side, stomach and back) to determine how accommodating they felt from the perspective of different sleeper types. We noted whether they applied too much pressure against the head in a particular position, which can cause pain and headaches. Headphones that cause discomfort can adversely affect your sleep, so finding a comfortable and virtually imperceptible pair is crucial.Noise cancellation or masking: We tested the headphones in various situations and environments, primarily focusing on snoring simulations and loud sounds such as television or music. The snoring simulations were played at a high volume on the bedside table to test the headphones' abilities to block out or actively cancel noises. We also tested them with real snoring by our partners who snore.Security or stability: Part of sleep headphones' wearability and comfort includes how well they stay in place throughout the night. If your earbuds constantly fall out or your headband slides off, it's annoying and makes staying asleep difficult. We analyzed this by switching positions and intentionally moving around during our testing process (and unintentionally moving around while sleeping at night) to see how well each pair of headphones stayed put.Sound quality: We tested the headphones' sound based on each pair's unique capabilities. There should be no cracking or static sounds, and the quality should be good enough to minimize sudden changes in sound that can disrupt your sleep. They should also have adjustable volume levels and clear audio -- especially if you're listening to audiobooks or podcasts.Battery life: Charging a device daily can be tedious (and easy to forget). You don't want to crawl into bed, eager to put on your headphones and fall asleep, only to realize they're dead. A pair of headphones that can last at least two nights without a charge scores extra points.Special features: Some brands offer additional features or perks that enhance the functionality of the headphones, such as a free audio library, adjustable sizing and machine-washability.Price: Headphones and earbuds for sleep range drastically in price, from budget-friendly options under $30 to top-of-the-line products costing hundreds of dollars. We included a variety of headphones, so you can find a pair that works regardless of the price.
We test all features and functionalities of the sleep headphones, including machine-washability for brands that promote it.
Aly Lopez/CNETRead more: How We Test Products and ServicesWhat to consider when choosing sleep headphonesFirst and foremost, you should consider the type of headphones you want to wear while sleeping. Do you prefer earbuds that fit snugly in your ear canals, over-ear headphones or bands that wrap around your head?Secondly, do you prefer to listen to your own music, soundscapes or audiobooks, or do you simply want to cancel out the extraneous sounds around you? Do you want to mask everything out by listening to white noise? Knowing this will help narrow your search as it will help determine whether you need a device that allows you to connect to Bluetooth or plays a type of colored noise, such as white, brown or pink.Any decent set of headphones can play music or sounds, but the design of sleep headphones that you find comfortable is most crucial. Regular headphones are often too bulky to sleep in, whereas headphones for sleep are intended to have a minimal, nearly imperceptible feel so you won't notice them at night. In deciding the best sleep headphones for you, consider the following key features:Wear preference (in-ear, over-ear or headband)Functionality (streaming audio, noise-canceling or white noise)Battery lifeComfortabilityWired or wirelessPricingHow sound affects sleep Sound significantly influences your sleep quality -- positively or negatively -- depending on the scenario. Here are examples of each:Negative impact: Recent studies have shown that environmental noise (especially cars, city or transportation sounds) can decrease your deep and REM sleep while increasing your awake time. Those annoying extraneous noises keeping you up at night provoke a biological stress response in your body, which is detrimental to your sleep quality. As a result, those who sleep in noisy environments are at greater risk of feeling groggy the next day, often experiencing mood changes, annoyance and decreased brain functioning.A lack of sleep from sound disturbances at night has long-term health consequences, which is why using a pair of sleep headphones can be beneficial in this scenario. Canceling or blocking out those unwanted sounds can help you fall and stay asleep longer.Positive impact: Listening to audio for sleep -- particularly relaxing music or soundscapes -- affects our brain and body. Soothing music can shift the focus in your brain from stress-inducing thoughts to a more relaxed state, which helps to lower your heart rate and blood pressure. This makes it easier to fall asleep.When listening to music at around 60 beats per minute (the same as the average relaxed human heart), "entrainment" can occur when your body synchronizes with its environment (in this case, the beat of the song), which promotes relaxation.It doesn't have to be slow-tempo songs; listening to any music you enjoy can release dopamine in the brain, promoting pleasure and reducing stress and anxiety. Adding music or soothing soundscapes to your bedtime routine can be a great way to mask unwanted extraneous noises and train your body and brain that it's time for sleep. Is it safe to wear headphones while sleeping?
There are a few things to consider to sleep safely while wearing headphones -- particularly earbuds. Aly Lopez/CNETGenerally, yes, but there are caveats to keep in mind. Dr. Meredith Broderick, sleep neurologist and Ozlo medical advisory board member, explains, "The headphones should be comfortable so that they don't cause any skin irritation and shouldn't have any wires that would get tangled up in hair or pinch the user. Volume control is also very important to protect against noise-induced hearing loss. The volume should stay below 60 decibels. That's one of the reasons I recommend the Ozlo Sleepbuds; they check all the boxes."Hearing damage: Your device's volume should always be kept below half the maximum to prevent damage or hearing loss. Listening to audio that's too loud for too long increases your risk of damaging the tiny hairs in your ear that help you hear.Infections or impacted earwax: If not cleaned regularly and adequately, in-ear headphones can cause discomfort or bacterial infections. Earbuds can trap moisture in your ear canal, especially if you go to bed soon after showering. Wearing in-ear headphones for long periods can create a breeding ground for bacteria to grow and earwax to accumulate or become impacted, so be sure to stop using them if you feel discomfort or pain.Headaches: Sleeping with headphones or earbuds can cause headaches if worn improperly. If the headband or headphones are too tight, the pressure around your head and ears can cause external compression headaches. Earbuds that put too much pressure inside the ear canals can cause headaches. In addition, listening to audio that's too loud can cause strain and discomfort. Emergencies: Another caveat is that noise-canceling headphones may prevent you from hearing your alarm in the morning or possibly if there's an emergency, such as a fire alarm. What sounds are best for sleep?The best sounds to listen to while sleeping depend on your individual needs and preferences. "White noise is probably the best for masking disruptive sounds, since it covers all sound frequencies. But some people may prefer instrumental music or nature sounds, like rain or the ocean," says Broderick.According to Calm, certain soundscapes and genres of music offer sleep-enhancing benefits, such as:Instrumental music (soft piano music or a strumming guitar)Classical music (peaceful orchestral pieces like Chopin or Mozart)Nature sounds (waves crashing or rain falling)Ambient music (creates a peaceful mood through tone or texture and doesn't have a rhythmic beat)Songs with slower tempos, particularly those around 60 to 80 beats per minute with low amplitude, also have specific sleep-inducing benefits. A song with this slow pace can prompt the brain to synchronize with the beat, which can help you fall asleep faster. Additionally, songs with certain low frequencies, namely 432 Hz, are thought to have calming effects on the body and promote sleep by reducing sleep latency and increasing the time spent in deep sleep.
Sleep headphones FAQs
How loud should my music or audio be while sleeping in headphones?
Headphones and earbuds can reach 100 decibels (dB) or more, which is much too loud for extended listening. To put it into perspective, sounds above 70 dB are considered damaging to our ears over time (70 dB is about the volume of a normal conversation between two people). A safe level for headphones is 50 dB or below. You can use a sound meter, which is available for under $20 on Amazon, to test the volume level of your headphones.
What are the benefits of wearing headphones while sleeping?
As Dr. Broderick explains, "Sleep headphones can block disruptive environmental sounds like traffic, snoring or noisy neighbors. There are some studies showing that auditory masking, like white noise, can improve sleep in noisy environments. Listening to music, nature sounds or bedtime stories can be relaxing and a great way of reducing stress and winding down for sleep, as well as a sleep ritual to train the body to recognize as a preparation for sleep."
What type of headphones are most comfortable to sleep in?
It comes down to personal preference. If you don't like the feeling of earbuds jammed in your ears, you'll find over-ear headphones or headbands, like the Manta Sound Sleep Mask, more comfortable.If you don't like the feeling of wearing a snug-fitting headband all night, earbuds, such as our top pick, the Ozlo Sleepbuds, may be your best bet. Overall, lightweight earbuds or headbands that don't stick out too far will be the most comfortable to wear while sleeping.
Do sleep headphones help with tinnitus?
Certain headphones have the potential to help with tinnitus (ringing in the ears) as long as the volume is not too high. Too high a volume could worsen tinnitus by causing more damage. Some brands design their sleep headphones with tinnitus in mind, such as SleepPhones. If you wear a comfortable pair at low-volume, noise-canceling headphones can help relieve tinnitus symptoms by creating a more controlled listening experience so the ears aren’t as stressed or strained. However, not everyone with tinnitus will find relief with sleep headphones. It is best to talk with your primary care provider or an audiologist about wearing sleep headphones to help with tinnitus.
Can sleep headphones help with anxiety or insomnia?
Sleep headphones can help anxiety and insomnia sufferers. By delivering calming sounds directly to your ears, they can help mask distracting noises while providing soothing audio that lowers your heart rate and reduces stress hormones. Many people report that guided meditations, nature sounds or gentle music played through sleep headphones help create a consistent bedtime routine that signals to their brain that it's time to wind down. While they're not a replacement for professional treatment of severe sleep disorders, they can be valuable to your sleep hygiene routine.
Can sleeping with headphones damage your ears?
Sleeping with headphones is not inherently dangerous. However, wearing ones that are ill-fitting or put too much pressure on your inner ear can be uncomfortable and potentially lead to damage. It’s also important to ensure you don’t listen to your music too loud or wear earbuds for too long without taking a break.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.