My Partner and I Stay in Separate Bedrooms When We Travel; Benefits - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
Whenever I travel with a partner, we stay in separate bedrooms
By
Natalie Grigson
I enjoy going on trips with my partner, but I like sleeping alone and knowing I can retreat to my own space if I want.
Natalie Grigson
2025-09-22T17:12:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I've found that I like booking accommodations with two bedrooms when I travel with a partner.
This way, we can stick with our preferred sleep schedules and take space if we need it.
I've also found that two-bedroom rentals often cost the same (or just slightly more) than one-bedrooms.
A few years ago, my then-partner and I were road-tripping through snowy Colorado. We were doing a good mix of exploring, laughing, talking, and getting on each other's nerves.
We were staying in a hotel room at the sort of antiquated and charming roadside inn you really only see on postcards or in Schitt's Creek — and we'd just gotten into a fight."I need some space," I remember saying before walking out into the heavy snow. Immediately, I thought about how taking space would've been a lot easier (and warmer) if we'd just gotten a place with two rooms.
Cut to a year later — I was a few months into a new relationship and planning a three-week trip to Europe with them. Now was the time to make a request I'd always secretly wanted to make when traveling with a significant other.I asked, "Can we get places with two bedrooms?" He was down.Since that trip, I've never looked back. I always make sure to get a place with two bedrooms when traveling with a partner. Here's why.
Two rooms can make it easier to sleep betterSleep can be tricky when traveling. There's the new place, new mattress, new weird middle-of-the-night route to the bathroom, new time zone.On top of that, in my experience, my partners and I have also often had very different sleep habits. I'm a super early bird, which isn't the case with many of my partners.So getting two separate bedrooms when traveling has allowed us to go to sleep and wake up on our own schedules, uninterrupted. This is a huge perk, as being well-rested can improve an entire vacation.
Plus, for some, having a bed all to yourself might feel like a vacation of its own — no having to share sheets or deal with snoring.As an introvert, I like being able to easily take space
On that one trip to Colorado, it would've been nice to have alone time in a warm room instead of the cold outdoors.
Natalie Grigson
Traveling with a partner can mean a whole lot of being all up in each other's business.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
This can be a fun bonding experience … for a while. But I'm an introvert — I need space sometimes (OK, a lot of the time), and that doesn't change when I'm on vacation.
Getting a place with two bedrooms is a great solution if you or the person you're traveling with may eventually need or want some alone time. (This is far more appealing than having to take a walk in the middle of a snowstorm.)Of course, having two bedrooms doesn't mean that you have to spend time apart or even sleep separately. It just makes it a nice, plausible option if and when you want to.It often doesn't cost us much extra — even if it did, I think the price is worth payingWhen I've traveled with partners, we usually use Airbnb to rent places with two bedrooms.
This has been more cost-effective than getting two separate hotel rooms — plus it stops the arrangement from feeling too divided, like we're strangers co-attending a conference or something.The truth is, in most cities I've visited, it doesn't cost a whole lot more to get an Airbnb with an extra bedroom — in many places, the prices are about the same.For example, at the time of writing, I found dozens of options to rent a one-bedroom or two-bedroom place in Chicago later this month for between $100 and $200 a night.
But even if we have to spend a bit extra for two bedrooms, what we're paying for feels worth it to me: better sleep, more space when we need it, and ultimately, a greater vacation.
Recommended video
Travel
Relationships
AirBnB
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account