Kash Patel says others under investigation in Charlie Kirk shooting probe - ABC News
ABC NewsLiveVideoShowsShopInterest Successfully AddedWe'll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? OffOnLog InStream onKash Patel says others under investigation in Charlie Kirk shooting probeThe FBI director sparred with Sens. Booker and Schiff during the hearing.ByLuke BarrSeptember 16, 2025, 2:52 PM5:16FBI Director Kash Patel testifies before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, on Capitol Hill in Washington, September 16, 2025. Jonathan Ernst/ReutersFBI Director Kash Patel faced questions about the assassination of conservative activist and influencer Charlie Kirk last week -- including that other people could be involved -- when he appeared before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Tuesday.In his appearance, his first in two days of hearings on Capitol Hill, Patel addressed his handling of the Kirk investigation -- something he faced criticism for after he shared on social media at one point that a suspect was in custody, but then had to backtrack an hour and a half later.Ranking Member Dick Durbin, a Democrat, slammed Patel during his opening remarks on Tuesday, saying Patel sparked "mass confusion" in his posts about Kirk's killing. Patel stood by his performance, touting the fact that Kirk's suspected shooter was caught in less than 36 hours.MORE: Charlie Kirk killing: Suspect had 'obsession' with the conservative influencer, FBI saysFBI Director Kash Patel appears before the Senate Judiciary Committee for his first oversight hearing, Sept. 16, 2025, at the Capitol in Washington.Julia Demaree Nikhinson/APPatel said he directed authorities to release the photo of the suspect, 22-year-old Tyler Robinson, in the Kirk shooting. Kirk was killed in Utah on Wednesday and Robinson was apprehended after his father recognized him in photographs released by authorities, Utah Gov. Spencer Cox said on Friday. His father told Robinson to turn himself in, with the 22-year-old initially saying no, but later changing his mind, officials said.Patel contends this only happened because he ordered "against all law enforcement recommendations," as he said on X on Saturday, the release of video and enhanced photos of the suspect."We cannot do our job without the American public and credible reporting in the media," Patel said. "And that's why Tyler Robinson is in custody today about to face charges."Sen. Dick Durbin speaks as FBI Director Kash Patel appears before the Senate Judiciary Committee for his first oversight hearing, Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2025, at the Capitol in Washington.Julia Demaree Nikhinson/APPatel addressed criticism that he has faced for how he handled the investigation on "Fox & Friends" on Monday morning."I was telling the world what the FBI was doing as we were doing it. I continue to do it. I challenge anyone out there to find a director who has been more transparent and more willing to work the media with high profile cases or any cases that the FBI [is] handling."MORE: Vance says 'left-wing extremism' helped lead to Charlie Kirk's killingThe online messaging platform, Discord confirmed reports that about two hours before Robinson was taken into custody last week, the alleged shooter posted messages to a small group of friends on the platform that said, "Hey guys, I have bad news for you all … It was me at UVU yesterday. im sorry for all of this."Patel addressed the Discord message during the hearing, saying that the FBI is investigating "anyone and everyone involved in that Discord chat" with Robinson. Patel said there are "a lot more" than 20 people linked to Robinson on Discord, "and we're running them all down. ... Every single one.""There are a number of individuals that are currently being investigated and interrogated, and a number yet to be investigated and interrogated, specific to that chat room. So we are very much in our ongoing posture of investigation," Patel said, adding that other people could be involved.President Donald Trump appears to be standing behind Patel. Asked for his thoughts on Patel's performance so far Tuesday morning, Trump said he supports Patel and that he has "confidence in everyone in the administration."Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Kash Patel arrives to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee in the Hart Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill, September 16, 2025 in Washington.Andrew Harnik/Getty ImagesThe Epstein investigationPatel is facing questions on a host of other issues while he has been at the helm of the FBI, including the handling of the Jeffrey Epstein files.The Trump administration has been dealing with blowback it received from MAGA supporters for its decision to not release more materials related to the investigation into Epstein, the wealthy financier and convicted sex offender who died by suicide in jail in 2019.Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Kash Patel testifies before the Senate Judiciary Committee, on Capitol Hill, September 16, 2025 in Washington.Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesEpstein, whose private island estate was in the U.S. Virgin Islands, has long been rumored to have kept a "client list" of celebrities and politicians, which right-wing influencers have baselessly accused authorities of hiding.The Justice Department and FBI announced in July that they had found no evidence that Epstein kept a client list after several top officials like Patel, before joining the administration, had themselves accused the government of shielding information regarding the case.Popular ReadsTyler Robinson said he killed Charlie Kirk because he 'spreads too much hate'Sep 16, 5:18 PMLuigi Mangione earns legal victory as judge tosses 2 murder chargesSep 16, 10:07 AM6 children, including infant, locked in Milwaukee storage unit: PoliceSep 16, 5:30 PMPatel squarely blamed former U.S. Attorney and Labor Secretary Alex Acosta, who initially oversaw the Epstein investigation. Acosta resigned amid controversy over his role in a 2008 plea deal with Epstein and defended his decision, saying his goal "was straightforward" and included putting Epstein behind bars."I'm here to testify that the original sin in the Epstein case was the way it was initially brought by Mr. Acosta back in 2006. The original case involved a very limited search warrant, or set of search warrants, and didn't take as much investigatory material it should have seized," Patel said. "If I were the FBI director, then it wouldn't have happened."Patel testified that Epstein was not an FBI informant as some have claimed.Patel spars with Democratic senatorsPatel and Democratic Sen. Adam Schiff had a tense exchange amid questions about the Epstein investigation, during which Patel called the California senator a "political buffoon."Patel called Schiff "the biggest fraud to ever sit in the United States Senate."FBI Director Kash Patel testifies before a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, on Capitol Hill in Washington, September 16, 2025.Jonathan Ernst/Reuters"You are disgrace to this institution and an utter coward," Patel added.Schiff hit back as the two yelled over each other: "You can make an internet troll the FBI director, but [he] will always be nothing more than an internet troll."Democratic Sen. Cory Booker and Patel engaged in a shouting match over Booker accusing Patel of making the country less safe."I believe you have made our country weaker and less safe," Booker told Patel, before detailing what he perceived as Patel's failures as the FBI's leader, including the ouster of several top FBI leaders without explanation.Sen. Cory Booker questions FBI Director Kash Patel during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on "Oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, September 16, 2025.Jonathan Ernst/Reuters"That rant of false information does not bring this country together," Patel shot back at Booker.The two men shouted over each other until Chair Chuck Grassley intervened and allowed Patel to respond.Sen. Ted Cruz, who spoke next, quipped: "It used to be that to see theater you had to go to the Kennedy Center, now apparently you need only go to the Senate Judiciary Committee and see our Senate Democrats berating the director the FBI."ABC News' Sarah Beth Hensley contributed to this report.Related TopicsCharlie Kirk shootingSponsored Content by TaboolaPopular ReadsTyler Robinson said he killed Charlie Kirk because he 'spreads too much hate'Sep 16, 5:18 PM6 children, including infant, locked in Milwaukee storage unit: PoliceSep 16, 5:30 PMFormer CDC director tells Senate committee 'true reason' she believes she was firedSep 17, 4:19 PMLuigi Mangione earns legal victory as judge tosses 2 murder chargesSep 16, 10:07 AMABC News Live24/7 coverage of breaking news and live eventsABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationContact Us © 2025 ABC News