Windows handheld gamers can unlock the new "Xbox mode" early: here's how
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Windows handheld gamers can unlock the new "Xbox mode" early: here's how
By
Simon Batt
Published 7 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Valve opened SteamOS to non-Deck handhelds, improving performance by keeping the OS lean.
Microsoft's 25H2 update adds Xbox mode to focus Windows on gaming, freeing resources and launching titles in a single window.
Preview testers report small FPS gains but big RAM drops (Celeste went from 10.6GB to 9.4GB); 25H2 is still in testing.
Right now, we're witnessing an arms race between Microsoft and Valve. For a while, the two had been content in their own camps; Valve had its Steam Deck, and Microsoft had delivered Windows 11 to other handheld PCs. However, things began to escalate when Valve released the Steam Deck's operating system, SteamOS, for general use on any handheld device. Not only that, but Valve began actively fixing bugs and creating patches for specific non-Deck models, including some that were previously Windows-only. People then began to notice improved performance when using SteamOS over Windows 11, and it's not difficult to see why. While Windows comes with all the baggage that a general installation has, SteamOS keeps things lean, freeing up more hardware for gaming. Well, Microsoft is seemingly striking back with "Xbox mode," which seems to put all of the Windows stuff aside so you can focus on your game, and you can try it right now. Just make sure that you're ready to do a little bit of tinkering first.
Windows 11's "Xbox mode" for handhelds arrives as part of the 25H2 update
In a thread on the ROG Ally subreddit (thanks for the spot, The Verge!), user /u/Gogsi123 discussed what this new Xbox mode can do. It can pick out all your Steam and Epic Games titles and boot them up in a focused window, which seems to free up some hardware for gaming. While Xbox mode gave the original poster a pretty small 2 FPS boost in Red Dead Redemption 2, there were more promising results when playing Celeste:
In Celeste RAM usage dropped from 10.6 GB to 9.4 GB, over a gigabyte. The 10.6 GB figure is after I entered desktop experience and closed every startup app I saw (Discord, Teams, etc), so the difference may be even larger depending on what you have running. The game is capped at 60 FPS and hits it in both modes, so no comparison there.
The good news is, you can start using Xbox mode as part of the next Windows 11 update, 25H2. The bad news is...it's not out yet. The Windows 11 update is still in the testing branches and hasn't been released to the public. Fortunately, you can download the preview build and give the Xbox mode a try, and /u/Gogsi123 was kind enough to publish a full guide on how to do that. And if you're wondering how Windows 11 fares compared to SteamOS, we conducted some tests ourselves and found some pretty stunning results.
Gaming Handhelds
Windows 11: Everything you need to know
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 17, 2025
This free and open-source app helps me keep track of all the stuff I usually forget
Sep 16, 2025
5 reasons high-end CPUs have become overkill in 2025
Sep 17, 2025
I built a pocket NAS with a Raspberry Pi and an NVMe drive
Sep 17, 2025
This SmartDNS server lets you get around geoblocks
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
46 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
OPNsense is perfect for protecting your home network, but it can cause unexpected issues
Against all odds, this decades-old Windows OS grew over 100% in just two months
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with a Raspberry Pi instead of a mini PC
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.