sql server - How do I get the dropdown lists to update with new values to use as parameters in Power Query? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How do I get the dropdown lists to update with new values to use as parameters in Power Query?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
41 times
0
Here is what I have so far.
The main query for the survey dataset.
A query that returns a dataset of the distinct years in that dataset.
This will be used by the user to choose from to filter the survey data.
A query that returns a dataset of the distinct quarters.
This will also be used to filter the survey data.
Several other queries from Excel Table Ranges, such as Department.
This will be used to (somehow) change the Department number in the survey data to a name, for easier reading.
From some web reading and AI chats, I loaded the Year and Quarter queries into tables, then created a "dropdown" for each one, using the Data Validation -> List -> Source=Year Table/Quarter Table.
Then I was told to create another query based on the dropdown and use that in the Power Query editor as a parameter.
But, after adding some more test data into the DB, and refreshing all from the Data Ribbon, the new values do not show up in the dropdowns.
So, it's really a multi-part question here.
The survey data is on sheet "ResultSet01".
The miscellaneous queries, including the queries for Year and Quarter are loaded into "Supplemental Data" sheet.
And the sheet I am working with for user interface is "Sheet 1".
The Data Validation for the Quarter dropdown is: ='Supplemental Data'!$D$7.
I think this is restricting expansion of the dropdown list...
And the Year dropdown Data Validation is similar.
Ok, just got the dropdown to update as I had hoped by changing the formula to this: ='Supplemental Data'!$D5:$D8, all I did was remove the $ from the row numbers and it grew as I added more data.
Here is a screenshot of the connections I currently have:
So, I am stuck on:
how to get these dropdowns to update, (SOLVED, I think!)
how to filter the survey data with the chosen values from these dropdowns.
And the last question is: Am I doing this right?
sql-serverexcelpowerquery
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 23 hours ago
Viper75Viper75
2911 silver badge44 bronze badges
2
2
It sounds like you are loading the entire dataset each time and then you want to filter what gets displayed, correct? Assuming this is the case then don't load anything into sheets, load all queries into the datamodel, connection only. Then in the datamodel, add relationships just like you would in your database (e.g. to join to department names). Once you have this you can create a pivot table based on the datamodel and add slicers connected to your dimension tables (Department etc) to allow you to instantly filter the data (no refresh required).
Alan Schofield
–
Alan Schofield
2025-09-18 09:19:55 +00:00
Commented
16 hours ago
@AlanSchofield Thank you for the tips!
I ended up reworking the whole query setup, and the query structures themselves, retrieving all necessary data from the DB, merging queries and going with the Pivot Table and slicers.
This is the first PT I built where I think I understand what is going on.
They were always alien to me.
The next steps are to determine what format the users need, add a few features, and see what happens!
Thank you!
Viper75
–
Viper75
2025-09-19 01:19:26 +00:00
Commented
5 mins ago
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
0
Not sure how to mark Alan's comment as an answer, but he put me on the right track.
That, along with a lot of reading on the Microsoft site, and a couple of YT videos, got this post solved!
Share
Follow
answered 3 mins ago
Viper75Viper75
2911 silver badge44 bronze badges
Comments
Add a comment
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
sql-serverexcelpowerquery
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Related
1694
How can I do an UPDATE statement with JOIN in SQL Server?
785
What is the best way to auto-generate INSERT statements for a SQL Server table?
1388
How to get the identity of an inserted row?
466
SELECT INTO a table variable in T-SQL
454
Using Pandas to pd.read_excel() for multiple (but not all) worksheets of the same workbook without reloading the whole file
241
How to Select Every Row Where Column Value is NOT Distinct
0
Use values in cells as parameters in stored procedure in power query editor
328
NULL values inside NOT IN clause
0
referencing parameters from another worksheet in power query
331
Is there a performance difference between CTE , Sub-Query, Temporary Table or Table Variable?
Hot Network Questions
What is the minimum number of games played between Arun and Disha?
Siblings buying grandparents' home as first time buyers. Please help me identify our blind spots
What are possible options to disembark for health issues if your airline keeps you on board at the tarmac for several hours?
What was the "shear wedge" used on the Tethered Satellite System?
What is the probability that a plane through three random points on the surface of the Earth intersects the Moon?
CiviCRM standalone - how do I log out?
Why it is that a 64-bit EXE file (PE64) can contain a custom MS-DOS stub (a MZ executable), but not a custom 32-bit Windows stub?
Pressure treated or regular wood for temporary ramp?
Book about two ships that leave Earth decades apart but the later ship has FTL technology
A man you don't meet every day
How do I remove a gap in date x axis?
How to design the input resistance of a voltage regulator?
Word choice errors in submitted thesis
Understanding the delay x bandwidth product for computer networks
How does energy abundance affect materials science?
Statistics for Theoreticians
Must I enclose the values of the parameters in GRUB with quotation marks?
Why hasn’t LIGO detected more kilonova events after GW170817?
Ordinary insertion sort vs. straight insertion sort in Java (benchmark)
What is Sealord frequency used prior to entering restricted airspace?
Research Experience for Math PhD
Peg solitaire starting position
What happens when a creature with the See Invisibility spell is blinded?
Why do complex questions lead to simple elegant answers?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-sql
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093