The Shocking Cost of Vendor Data Breaches | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Growing a Business
The Shocking Cost of Vendor Data Breaches — and How to Safeguard Your Operations
Your vendors' data disasters can destroy your business, even when you've never heard of the third-party provider that actually caused the crisis.
By
Chongwei Chen
Edited by
Chelsea Brown
Sep 18, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
A company's operations depend on a plethora of vendors and suppliers, meaning a single outage, data breach or fault with one of these vendors can have a devastating ripple effect on your business.
Assess vendor security, regularly audit their systems, and avoid reliance on a single provider to reduce risk.
Robust backup and recovery tools act as a safety net, enabling your business to bounce back quickly when prevention measures fail.
Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.
Modern supply chains are a complex web of interconnected, intertwined digital ecosystems, each supporting the other. Look around you, and everything from how your workstations perform to how your data is being managed consists of several different suppliers and vendors, beyond what might be evident to you on first glance.You may have bought your web domain from an American company, but your hosting servers are in Europe. You probably bought your cloud infrastructure from AWS or Google, but your data is being stored in a remote village in Norway.Beyond what is visible lies a plethora of vendors and suppliers that work together like clockwork to make sure your business infrastructure remains up and running.
However, this is where the problem begins. A single outage, data breach or fault with one of these vendors can have a devastating ripple effect on your business operations.Your direct vendor might not even be responsible, but their service might depend on a third-party provider, with whom you have no connection, and yet, your business takes the complete brunt of the situation.
Therefore, in today's world, companies don't just have to prepare for internal data risks but also think about the data risks posed to their suppliers and vendors.Related: How to Mitigate Cybersecurity Risks Associated With Supply Chain Partners and VendorsVulnerabilities due to a web of interdependenciesIn 2021, millions of websites across the world suddenly went offline. This included business websites, banks, ecommerce ports and even government agencies. In fact, it took out a major chunk of European and mostly French websites.After a couple of hours, it was found that one of the four data centers owned by the company OVHcloud was destroyed due to a fire.While the data centers supposedly had backups, the resulting damage in terms of data breaches and lost business cost tens of millions of dollars.Even some of the largest companies in the world are regularly attacked and are susceptible to data leaks.Orange Belgium's data breach exposed information of 850,000 customers. Allianz Life's data breach exposed personal information of more than a million customers, and a Qantas cyberattack leaked information on over six million airline customers!More recently, a ransomware attack on the UK's NHS (National Health Service) disrupted blood tests across several London hospitals, eventually leading to the death of at least one patient. The software provider for the NHS, Advanced Computer Systems, was eventually fined £3 million, but only after an innocent life had already been lost.
While these large organizations cannot be solely blamed, it is clear that even if you have the most robust IT and security infrastructure within your organization, you are never immune to the vulnerabilities of your vendors.Common mistakes that lead to weak data managementSimilar to the example of OVHcloud, many vendors simply lack a robust backup system to ensure operations run smoothly — this is where the problem starts. Due to a poor backup system, they also have an insufficient disaster recovery plan in case of a ransomware attack. Therefore, a fire in only one of their four data centers brought down millions of their customers' websites.Another example might be the NHS's software. They probably had data integrity checks built into their security, but they were insufficient, making it easy for an attack to take place across a number of locations. Overall, a reliance on manual recovery efforts and weak cybersecurity practices creates vulnerabilities that can have devastating consequences.Related: 3 Ways to Ensure Cybersecurity Is a Priority for the Companies You Partner With
Cost of a vendor data crisisAny data breaches or attacks on your vendors will have a direct impact on your business. It can directly result in operational downtime, which can include workflows that completely stop working, supply chain disruptions, invoicing issues and much more.In the short run, it can lead to lost sales, SLA breaches and even penalties, while in the long run, the financial impact due to reputational damage can be even worse. If customers can't trust you to deliver on time or protect their data, they might never return.It's important to safeguard your business against such scenarios, and there are a couple of steps that can help you mitigate these.How to mitigate a vendor data crisisBefore signing a contract with a vendor, it's important to do your due diligence and assess their data and security infrastructure. This might seem instructive, but it is one of the important first steps you can take to protect your business and data against vulnerabilities.
It is also important to carry out regular audits and ensure SLAs are met and that they are up-to-date with industry standards.Overall, there needs to be a plan for diversification so that no single vendor can impact a critical workflow.Related: Why Cybersecurity is the Key to Unlocking the Full Potential of Supply ChainsWhy it's important to have robust data recovery toolsDespite all the due diligence and backups, no system is 100% fail-proof. This is why your business must have reliable recovery tools that can help recover damaged files, important emails and even complete databases, making sure your organization can be back on its feet as soon as possible.
A company's data can be worth tens of thousands of dollars for a small business and much more for a larger organization. Using such software is the perfect safety net when prevention fails.
Modern supply chains are a complex web of interconnected, intertwined digital ecosystems, each supporting the other. Look around you, and everything from how your workstations perform to how your data is being managed consists of several different suppliers and vendors, beyond what might be evident to you on first glance.You may have bought your web domain from an American company, but your hosting servers are in Europe. You probably bought your cloud infrastructure from AWS or Google, but your data is being stored in a remote village in Norway.Beyond what is visible lies a plethora of vendors and suppliers that work together like clockwork to make sure your business infrastructure remains up and running.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Chongwei Chen
Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor
President & CEO of DataNumen
Chongwei Chen is the President and CEO of DataNumen, a global leader in data recovery with solutions trusted by Fortune 500 companies worldwide.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Growing a Business
Why Do Some People Succeed Instantly While Others Take Years? These 3 Things Explain It
We all love to hear the stories of people who started a business and became an overnight success, but the reality is very different for most.
By
Cynthia Kay
Business News
A Data Breach Reportedly Affecting 18 Million Customers Hits Jeep, Chrysler, and Dodge Parent Company
The automaker Stellantis announced on Sunday that it had uncovered "unauthorized access" to a third-party service platform in North America.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business News
A 27-Year-Old Toy Company Is Growing Faster Than Microsoft: 'Really Emotional, Memorable Experience'
And no, it's not Labubu. Here's why Build-A-Bear Workshop's stock has grown by more than 2,000% over the past five years.
By
Sherin Shibu
Social Media
How To Start a Youtube Channel: Step-by-Step Guide
YouTube can be a valuable way to grow your audience. If you're ready to create content, read more about starting a business YouTube Channel.
By
Jason R. Rich
Business News
A Major Airline Is Furloughing One-Third of Its Flight Attendants
Spirit Airlines is placing 1,800 flight attendants on furlough.
By
Erin Davis
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC