Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 13, 2025
12:20 PM
12
On Friday, Microsoft reminded customers once again that Windows 10 will reach its end of support in 30 days, on October 14.
Windows 10 2015 LTSB and Windows 10 IoT Enterprise LTSB 2015 will also reach the end of extended support on the same date.
After it retires Windows 10, Microsoft will stop providing bug fixes or technical assistance for issues affecting security, stability, or usability.
"On October 14, 2025, Windows 10, version 22H2 (Home, Pro, Enterprise, Education, and IoT Enterprise editions) will reach end of servicing," Redmond announced in a message center update.
"The October 2025 monthly security update will be the last update available for these versions. After this date, devices running these versions will no longer receive monthly security and preview updates containing protections from the latest security threats."
Microsoft advises customers who want their Windows 10 devices to keep receiving essential security updates and bug fixes to upgrade eligible systems to Windows 11 or migrate to Windows 11 in the cloud with Windows 365.
Windows 10 users can also delay switching to Windows 11 by enrolling in the Extended Security Updates (ESU) program, which costs $30 for home users and $61 per device for one year for enterprise customers. This ESU program is also available for free to home users who use Microsoft Rewards points to enroll or are willing to enable Windows Backup to sync their data to the cloud.
Windows 10 Virtual Machines and devices accessing Windows 11 Cloud PCs via Windows 365 can also use ESU at no additional charge, allowing them to receive security updates without extra steps.
The other option is to switch to Long-Term Servicing Channel (LTSC) releases, which are Windows editions specifically designed for specialized devices (such as industrial or medical equipment) to keep receiving updates beyond October 2025.
For instance, Windows 10 Enterprise LTSC 2021 will reach the Mainstream End Date on January 12, 2027 (with extended support for the IoT Enterprise edition), while Windows 10 Enterprise LTSC 2019 reaches its Extended End Date two years later, on January 9, 2029.
For details on end-of-service dates for Windows releases, use the Lifecycle Policy search tool or visit the Windows Lifecycle FAQ page. Microsoft also has a list of all products retiring or reaching the end of support this year.
According to Statcounter Global Stats, Windows 11 has finally surpassed Windows 10's number of installs, with over 53% of all Windows systems now running Windows 11, compared to 42% on Windows 10. Additionally, as of August 2025, Steam's Hardware & Software Survey indicates that 60.39% of gamers use Windows 11, while 35.08% use Windows 10.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in two monthsWindows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 daysMicrosoft fixes app install issues caused by August Windows updatesMicrosoft says recent Windows updates cause app install issuesMicrosoft releases emergency updates to fix Windows recovery
End of Support
Microsoft
Windows
Windows 10
Windows 10 22H2
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
b1k3rdude
-
3 days ago
Even if I didn't have an enterprise copy of Win10, I would go LTSC, or failing that server 2025. Before I ever consider upgrading to the sh!tshow that is Win11.
Sentin3l
-
2 days ago
Same. I highly dislike Windows 11
ComputerHelp69
-
2 days ago
Linux. People trying it in droves if you check out the Linux sub-reddits.
NoneRain
-
1 day ago
Not enough to pass the 4% of OS market share, tho. Most people try Linux but ultimately go back to Win for being more user-frendly. A small percentage wants "to learn" how to use a new OS, even if it is at first glance easy to use.
Drags
-
15 hours ago
"Not enough to pass the 4% of OS market share, tho. Most people try Linux but ultimately go back to Win for being more user-frendly. A small percentage wants "to learn" how to use a new OS, even if it is at first glance easy to use. "
If you combine "Linux" with ChromeOS you're sitting at just around 5.25% market share when using the usual statcounter. The 11.53% "unknown" will definitely also have a good chunk of Linux systems in there that just cannot be identified as such.
jmwoods
-
2 days ago
We'll be using 0patch until new hardware is purchased.
NoneRain
-
1 day ago
That`s a really good alternative.
Attemptive
-
6 hours ago
Is it? I've not heard of 0patch before, but it looks useful. I am concerned about giving a third-party software access the the memory of our devices. Interested in who else may use this option.
Drags
-
1 day ago
"According to Statcounter Global Stats, Windows 11 has finally surpassed Windows 10's number of installs, with over 53% of all Windows systems now running Windows 11,"
Sergiu - you should be using the August numbers, not July. July 53.51%, August 49.08% for Win11 - the number is getting smaller again and Win 10 gained from 42.88% to 45.53%. Showing Win11 being so crap that even Win7 is on the increase again (2.02% to 3.59%)...
Edit: The interesting thing is that Europe and Asia still favour Win10 over Win11 - 10% more for Win10 in Europe and Asia has seen a 12% drop in Win11 in the last month, while Win10 gained 10% again.
JohnC_21
-
1 day ago
Windows 10 Minimum Disk Space Requirements - 20GB
Windows 11 Minimum Disk Space Requirements - 64GBhttps://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/whats-new/windows-11-requirements
44 extra GBs for what?
Drags
-
1 day ago
"Windows 10 Minimum Disk Space Requirements - 20GB
Windows 11 Minimum Disk Space Requirements - 64GBhttps://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/whats-new/windows-11-requirements
44 extra GBs for what? "
the extra bloatware and "AI"
fromFirefoxToVivaldi
-
3 hours ago
It would be great if they were capable of prompting the extended support correctly. There are several devices in my family which do not get asked to enroll in extended support despite not being compatible with Win 11 and all the tricks recommended on the net do not work.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Sponsor Posts
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT