Stories—the Design Blog by Dribbble
Dribbble: the community for graphic design
Shots
Shots
Designers
Services
Explore
Popular
New and Noteworthy
Product Design
Web Design
Animation
Branding
Illustration
Mobile
Typography
Print
Find Talent
Get Matched Now
New
Browse Profiles
Purchase Services
Hire Fractional Talent
Post a Full-Time Job
Get Hired
Upgrade to Pro
Advertise
Full-Time Jobs
Blog
Sign up
Log in
Courtside:The Dribbble Blog
Sep 9, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 13 🚧
Results from our first year as a revenue-sharing marketplace, plus our latest product releases — including InstantMatch!
Sep 2, 2025
Playing the Long Game, Letting the Sketches Fly, and Why Dribbble Matters
From freelance to feature-worthy, Wells Collins has built a career on curiosity, consistency, and craft. Known for his expressive hand-lettered wordmarks and bold, organic logos, the Denver-based designer has turned Dribbble into a launchpad for his dream projects, and he’s done it all by showing the work he wants to be hired for. We talked about doodling, process, passion, and why throwing out your first five pages of sketches might be the best thing you ever do.
Jul 29, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 12 🚧
Learn more about our latest product releases and their early impact on lead flow to designers.
Jun 25, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 11 🚧
Learn more about June’s product releases and their early impact on lead flow to designers.
Jun 16, 2025
Celebrating Pride Month Through Design
Dribbble is proud to celebrate the LGBTQIA+ community through design. We’ve curated a selection of impactful Pride-themed artwork from our talented designers, each sharing their connection to the work and the deeper meaning behind their creations.
Jun 16, 2025
Unlock opportunities and showcase your skills with a Webflow Expert badge
If you’re a designer who has mastered Webflow and wants to show off your skills, you can earn an Expert badge for your Dribbble profile and appear on our exclusive Webflow Expert landing page.
May 28, 2025
Balkan Bros: Building a Legacy of Trust from Progressive Insurance to AWS
BB Agency’s success story is built on the power of long-term relationships and creative innovation. When a design project for Progressive Insurance led to a new product design for AWS, BB Agency’s seamless transition across industries and companies created a lasting impression of trust and consistency. Explore how they navigated these partnerships and how platforms like Dribbble played a crucial role in their growth and visibility.
May 20, 2025
How to Make Emails That Survive the Delete Button
What worked back in the day–or even a few years ago (cough, cough: emojis in email subject lines; random personalization that feels specific but isn’t), no longer captures attention. In fact, there are some common reasons why your emails might end up in the SPAM folder (or be left unread forever).
May 13, 2025
Merging Craftsmanship with Modern Design
Greg Grigoriou’s design journey beautifully bridges the world of traditional craftsmanship and modern digital tools. Through Dribbble Projects, he’s been able to streamline his freelance business and connect with clients more efficiently, while staying true to his artistic roots. Dive into Greg’s creative story and see how he has carved out a unique identity in the design world.
May 1, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 10 🚧
Learn more about April’s product releases and the early results of our pivot from an advertising-supported community to a revenue-sharing marketplace.
Apr 8, 2025
Pushing the Boundaries of Logo Design Through Storytelling and Expression
We talked to Brazilian graphic designer Breno Bitencourt, who is known for his bold, expressive logo designs that push traditional design boundaries.
Mar 24, 2025
What Makes a Great Icon Set?
Learn how to create a cohesive and unified icon set with these tips from Noun Project.
Mar 17, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 9 🚧
Dribbble’s mission is to help professional designers earn a living doing work they take pride in, and the Dribbble team is responsible for managing the business in a way that ensures it can continue fulfilling that mission in perpetuity. That’s why we’re pivoting from an advertising-supported community to a revenue-sharing marketplace.
Mar 4, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 8 🚧
Last week, Dribbble released Service Search to help clients find and compare relevant Services from thousands of designers.
Mar 3, 2025
Infusing Retro Boldness into Outdoor Design
We interviewed Danielle Podeszek, a Buffalo-based designer and founder of Pod Design Shop, who has spent over a decade honing her expertise in logo design, apparel, and merchandise for outdoor and athletic brands.
Feb 10, 2025
Frans Bergström: Elevating Digital Products with Purposeful Illustration
We interviewed Frans Bergström, a product designer who continues to resonate within the creative community. His unique approach—fuzing storytelling with design—and passion for illustration and motion design have established him as a sought-after designer.
Feb 5, 2025
Work In Progress, Part 7 🚧
We just released Milestones, a feature that enables designers to receive payouts incrementally as each phase of their project is completed (and even before work has begun if they negotiate an upfront payment with their client). This has been one of the most requested new features by both clients and designers.
Dec 17, 2024
Work In Progress, Part 6 🚧
Last week, we released Services, allowing designers to sell freelance services that can be purchased instantly on Dribbble. Designers outline the work offered and set the price, completion time, number of revisions, and any other specifications they want to include.
Nov 18, 2024
5 creative effects to upgrade your animated portfolio
If you’re a creative professional working in a visual medium like web design, photography, illustration, or motion graphics, it’s important to put effort into your craft. But even if you’re great at what you do, if you don’t have a well-designed portfolio, you’re missing out on getting your artistry out in front of a bigger audience.
Nov 12, 2024
Valuable Tips for Engaging with Tech Users
Creating effective designs for tech-savvy audiences, such as data scientists and software engineers, requires a careful balance between visual clarity, functionality, and creativity.
← Prev Next →
Overtime
The Dribbble Podcast
The Power of Play
All Categories
Interviews
Podcast
Inspiration
Process
Meetups
Updates
Hang Time
Community
Illustration
Web Design
Mobile
Typography
Branding
Animation
Product Design
Print
Illustration
Web Design
Mobile
Typography
Branding
Animation
Product Design
Print
Dribbble: the community for graphic design
Back to home page
For designers
Hire talent
Inspiration
Advertising
Blog
About
Careers
Support
Twitter icon
Twitter
Facebook icon
Facebook
Instagram
Pinterest icon
Pinterest
© 2025 Dribbble
Terms
Privacy
Cookies
Jobs
Designers
Freelancers
Tags
Places
Resources
Previous
Next
Loading…