Colorado mom and influencer says you can save money while skiing, snowboarding with children - CBS Colorado
Latest
U.S.
Comey Indicted
TikTok Deal
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Colorado
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
Your Reporters
Covering Colorado First
Your Investigators
Politics
Health
Business
News Team
Share A News Tip
Making Ends Meet
Elevating Black Voices
Elevating Latino Voices
Behind The Story
First Alert Weather
School Closings
Weather Watchers
Weather Cams
Share Weather Pics
Dog Walk Forecast
Weather School
All Sports
Denver Broncos
Denver Nuggets
Colorado Rockies
Colorado Avalanche
Injury Report
CBS Sports HQ
Odds
Jefferson County News
Arapahoe County News
Adams County News
Douglas County News
Northern Colorado News
Aurora News
Denver News
Boulder & Foothills News
Colorado Mountain News
Contests
Eye on Mental Health
Colorado Review
Future Leaders
Adopt A Pet
Your Local Dish
Wednesday's Child
Road Trip Ready
Girls in the Game
Eye on Smart Energy
Advertise with Us
TV Program Guide
Sponsored Events
Sign Up for Alerts
Employment
Contact Us
Join our Viewer Panel
Watch CBS News
Local News
Colorado mom and influencer says you can save money while skiing, snowboarding with children
By
Ashley
Portillo
Ashley
Portillo
Reporter
Your Reporter Ashley Portillo specializes in coverage of Arapahoe County. Share you story ideas with her by sending an email to yourreporter@cbs.com.
Read Full Bio
Ashley
Portillo
Updated on:
September 15, 2025 / 11:29 AM MDT
/ CBS Colorado
Colorado mom and influencer says you can save money while skiing, snowboarding with children
Colorado mom and influencer says you can save money while skiing, snowboarding with children
01:54
Now is the time to start looking into which ski pass you're going to get for you and your kids for the upcoming season in Colorado. While some passes might come at high costs, there are ways to save money so kids can ski or ride for free or at a reduced rate.Kyana Miner is a Colorado mom and influencer with more than 31,000 followers on Instagram. She spends a lot of time exploring the state, and with four children ages six to 13 years old, she also shares many of her family's adventures online and encourages and inspires other families to explore, even if on a budget."Skiing as a family of six, as you can imagine, can certainly get pricey. And I know especially now, families are really looking to save money, and so some of the things that we do are we take advantage of the passes," said Miner.
CBS
Two passes she recommended are about are the Epic pass and the Colorado Ski Country USA pass. The Epic SchoolKids Colorado Pack is a free program for kindergartners through fifth grade that provides four days of skiing and riding at five resorts, including Vail, Beaver Creek, Breckenridge, Keystone, and Crested Butte. Registration for the Epic pass opens in the spring, and registration is still open through the end of September.The Colorado Ski Country USA pass gives skiers and snowboarders in kindergarten through sixth grade a chance to explore 19 Colorado resorts, with four days of skiing and riding at each one. That comes to a total of 76 days of skiing for around $70. Sales for the Colorado Ski Country USA pass end in January."We definitely take advantage of these passes. They certainly make skiing more affordable. Another thing that we do is we look for packages and looking for packages that combine skiing with lodging and lift tickets to give us the best bang for our buck when skiing," said Miner.
She added that many resorts also offer their own programs or discounts for children. Miner said now is the time to start making your ski plans."This is the time to start looking at making your ski plans. I think when you wait later in the season, things can get more expensive," said Miner. "Now is really the time to start locking in your lodging, deciding on where you want to go, and locking in these passes. Another thing to keep in mind is that a lot of the mountains have discounted or free ski passes for children as well. So, you want to check into the places that you're looking to go and just see if they offer something for children, because a lot of them offer their own programs, or they offer free ski, particularly for 4 and 5-year-olds and younger."
CBS
She also recommends hitting the slopes during the week, which are often cheaper compared to the weekends or busy holidays. Smaller resorts can also offer skiing at a great price, and renting gear offsite is usually cheaper.Miner also said places like Christy Sports offer free kids' ski rentals when you rent adult gear for four days. She added it's best to wait for purchasing gear for your children until they're teenagers, because often they grow out of gear quickly.
"I always suggest parents rent children's gear because they grow so fast. From season to season, you don't want to have to keep repurchasing gear, so waiting until they get into that teen phase where they're staying in a size a little longer is the best time to invest in gear," said Miner.She also recommends checking out the smaller resorts that can offer great skiing and snowboarding at cheaper prices as well."Definitely keep in mind that some of the smaller resorts can offer amazing skiing, but at a cheaper price. So, check those out. And a lot of times the smaller resorts will offer discounted pricing or free pricing for kids, too," said Miner. "For example, Winter Park is not far from Denver, and it's accessible. You can go for a day trip, which will also save on lodging and cut down on some of that pricing too."
More from CBS News
Colorado students can apply for colleges in the state for free Oct. 7-9
Majority of Colorado parents don't properly install child car seats
Family says teen wounded trying to stop Colorado school shooting, calls for change
Emergency room, maternity units close as hospitals statewide hemorrhage money
Snow doesn't stop enjoyment of Colorado's outdoors amid first fall snow
Skiing
Ashley
Portillo
Your Reporter Ashley Portillo specializes in coverage of Arapahoe County. Share you story ideas with her by sending an email to yourreporter@cbs.com.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Colorado students can apply for colleges in the state for free Oct. 7-9
Majority of Colorado parents don't properly install child car seats
Family says teen wounded trying to stop Colorado school shooting, calls for change
Emergency room, maternity units close as hospitals statewide hemorrhage money
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
NFL Week 4 Picks
CFB Week 5 What to Watch
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Colorado
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KCNC-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue