I compared the two best smartwatches on the market - here's how Apple Watch Series 11 wins | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
I compared the two best smartwatches on the market - here's how Apple Watch Series 11 wins
I've gone hands-on with both Apple's new Series 11 smartwatch and the Pixel Watch 4 - here are the major differences between the two.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 24, 2025 at 6:54 a.m. PT
Nina Raemont/ZDNETApple's latest lineup of Apple Watches drummed up quite the hype when they were announced during its annual iPhone event. Apple unveiled several new features, like emergency SOS communications via satellite connectivity and FDA-cleared hypertension detection. I was physically present in Steve Jobs Theater, and as I watched Apple unveil these features, I couldn't help but compare the new watch to Google's Pixel Watch 4. Apple's new satellite SOS feature bears some striking similarities to Google's standalone satellite connectivity, for example. Also: The Apple Watch Series 11 is one feature away from making me ditch my Oura RingIt made me wonder, what other similarities (and differences) do the two competing smartwatches have? And which of the latest models should you buy? First: a bit about privacy
The Apple Watch SE 3 (left), Apple Watch Ultra 3 (middle), Apple Watch Series 11 (right). Nina Raemont/ZDNETBefore I delve into the actual specs, I wanted to mention a big difference between the two brands: privacy. Smartwatches collect lots of health data, including heart rate data, menstrual cycle data, blood oxygen, sleep, and more. That's some of the most valuable data you can give up. A recent report published by VPN Mentor rated Apple's data-sharing practices as "excellent" while Google's were rated as "good." Apple shares data only with user permission, and claims to never sell data.Also: New study will track 40,000 Garmin smartwatch users to better understand pregnancy outcomesGoogle shares your data within its ecosystem, and performs opt-in third-party sharing, but no ad targeting. Also note that a "Good" rating is better than other brands' products, like Samsung or Meta, both of which have received "poor" ratings for their data-sharing to generate personalized ads or biometric data sharing with limited opt-outs. Still, if data privacy is of the highest importance to you, it's essential to keep these things in mind before putting a health tracker on your wrist. Now that that's out of the way, let's compare. Specifications
Apple Watch Series 11Google Pixel Watch 4Brightness2,000 nits3,000 nitsWeight42mm: 30.3g, 46mm: 37.8 grams41mm: 31g; 45mm: 36.7gProcessorS10 chip with 64‑bit dual-core processorSnapdragon W5 Gen 2Memory1GB memory, 64GB storage2GB memory, 32GB storageBattery24 hours with always-on enabled30 on 41mm, 40 hours on 45mm with always-on enabledSizes42mm, 46mm41mm, 45mmColorwaysRose Gold, Silver, Jet Black, Space GrayMatte Black, Polished Silver, Champagne Gold, Satin MoonstonePriceStarting at $399Starting at $350
You should buy the Apple Watch Series 11 if...
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
1. You prefer a thinner, lighter watch I've gone hands on with both the Apple Watch Series 11 and the Pixel Watch 4. While I was excited by some of Pixel's feature updates -- like its brighter display -- one hardware hurdle I couldn't jump over was its sheer thickness. The Series 11 is thin and feels light to wear. The Pixel… does not. While I haven't gotten to test out the Pixel Watch 4 for more than a few minutes (during demos of the product) I slept with the Pixel Watch 3, which is similar in build. The thicker case and circular build of the Watch 3 made it more challenging to sleep with compared to the Apple Watch Series 11. 2. You want advanced health capabilities Apple has made investments in its health initiatives in recent years, gathering FDA clearance for several features, including hearing loss in its AirPods Pro, sleep apnea detection, and the recently unveiled hypertension detection.As a health device, I'd recommend Apple's Series 11, which I'd describe as a health tracker first and foremost, as opposed to the Pixel Watch 4, which I'd describe as an AI smartwatch that just so happens to have advanced health-tracking capabilities. Also: Apple Watch SE 3 vs. Watch SE 2: I compared the two models, and there's a clear winnerThere's no better example of this than Apple's hypertension detection feature. Over 30 days, the smartwatch tracks your blood pressure and notifies you if you're above the threshold. It's a unique feature to Apple, and I don't see any other wearable offering a high blood pressure detection quite like it. Pair it with sleep apnea detection, or Apple's recently re-implemented blood oxygen monitoring, and the result is an advanced suite of certified features. Competing health wearables, like Samsung or Google, pale in comparison to Apple's health wearable research and development.
Buy the Apple Watch Series 11 View now at Best Buy
You should buy the Pixel Watch 4 if...
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
1. You want a longer battery life What good is a smartwatch around your wrist if it's dead? The Apple Watch Series 11 received six more hours of battery life in this upgrade, from 18 to now a full day's worth, but the Pixel Watch 4 still beats it, with 30 hours of battery life total. 2. You don't want to pay extra for satellite communications Both Apple and Google unveiled satellite connectivity features on their smartwatches, allowing users to send messages and get help without a phone nearby. The only difference is its exclusivity to Apple's higher-end Ultra 3. The Pixel Watch 4, on the other hand, gets this feature at no extra cost or Ultra upgrade. Also: The 10 Apple Watch features that convinced me to switch to the wearable full-time3. You want a brighter displayApple's Series 11 has a peak brightness of 2,000 nits, while the Pixel Watch 4 offers 1,000 nits more. Both watches are still plenty bright despite their nit difference, and unless you were comparing the two on a particularly bright day, you might not even notice. Out of all the specs to nitpick (pun intended), this might be the least immediately noticeable.4. You want to pay less for an equally capable deviceThe Pixel Watch's starting price begins at $350, while the Apple Watch Series 11 starts at $400.
Buy the Pixel Watch 4 $349.99 at Amazon
Alternatives to consider
BEST SMARTWATCH ALTERNATIVE Galaxy Watch 8 The Galaxy Watch 8 is a competitive Android alternative to the Pixel Watch 4, and it's a little thinner than the Google watch.
View at Amazon
Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I compared every Apple Watch in 2025 - here's why I recommend this model the most
I compared the best smartwatches from Samsung and Apple - here's how the Watch Series 11 wins
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I recommend these models to different users
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use