Unconventional | Hosted by Naveed Jamali - Watch Episodes
Videos
×
Subscribe
Login
Videos
WATCH LATEST EPISODE
Episode Trailer
Season Trailer
Latest Trailers and Episodes
Season 2 | Episode 7
Fueling America's Fighters | An Inside Look at the KC-135
Naveed embeds with an Alaska Air National Guard KC-135 crew as they refuel F-22 fighter jets at the edge of American airspace.
Watch Episode
14:34
Trailer
Season 2 | Episode 6
Completing the Trifecta: I Fly in the B-1 Bomber!
Naveed takes to the skies in the B-1, becoming the first journalist to fly in and film all three of U.S. Air Force's operational bombers.
Watch Episode
20:22
Trailer
Season 2 | Episode 5
Securing the Inauguration: BTS with the Secret Service
Join Naveed for an exclusive look at the high-stakes security preparations for the 2025 presidential inauguration in Washington, D.C.
Watch Episode
17:00
Trailer
Season 2 | Episode 4
Rescue on Rainier: Embedding with Special Warfare Airmen and Army Aviators
These Air Force Reserve PJs and Army Reserve aviators aren't out on the battlefield—instead, they're rescuing civilians off Mount Rainier.
Watch Episode
17:00
Trailer
Season 2 | Episode 3
Up Close with the Minuteman III ICBM: America's Ultimate Deterrent
Naveed gets a never-before-seen look at the most powerful weapon system ever created: the Minuteman III ICBM.
Watch Episode
13:59
Trailer
Season 2 | Episode 2
Taking Flight for New York Fleet Week
In this Veterans Day special, Naveed gets too see New York City Fleet Week from the air and ground, flying in Marine Hueys and CH-53s.
Watch Episode
13:47
Trailer
Mini Episodes and Interviews
Black Hawk in the Black Hills
102-Year-Old WWII Pilot Meets the B-2 Stealth Bomber
The Evolution of Battlefield Medicine: Fort Knox to the Frontlines
Exploring Fort Knox in Corvette: America's Sports Car
Black Hawk & Yeti Summer
WWII Vet Looks Back on B-17 Combat Missions at 101 Years Old
Service in Seattle
Mover and Gonky's T-38 Fini Flight
Space Force Insights with General Michael Guetlein
The Host Naveed Jamali
Naveed Jamali is a military expert, author, veteran, journalist, and former spy. For 3 nerve-wracking years, Naveed spied on America for the Russians, or so they believed. In fact, he was a double agent working with the FBI. It is a story he tells in his book “How to Catch a Russian Spy” (film rights to Disney and literary rights to Simon & Schuster).
Related Articles
Cold War: On America's Remote Front Line with Russia
By Renae Whissel
3 MIN READ
An Inside Look at the US Stealth Bomber That's Still A Mystery 30 Years On
By Naveed Jamali
4 MIN READ
On Board the New And Improved US Aircraft Carrier Sent to Support Israel
By Naveed Jamali
4 MIN READ
About The Show
Unconventional tells the story of the new generation entering the U.S. military—how they bring diversity and new attitudes, while upholding the traditions of one the oldest institutions.For each episode Naveed embeds for 36 hours with various military commands, giving an inside look at today's armed forces in action.