Nintendo Switch 2 Restock Tracker: In Stock at Many Big Retailers - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Article updated on Sep 11, 2025
Deals
Nintendo Switch 2 Restock Tracker: In Stock at Many Big Retailers
The Nintendo Switch 2 will only get better as more great games are released, so now’s a great time to pick one up.
By
Max McHone
,
Connor Jewiss
71 items on sale
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert deal-hunting staff showcases the best price drops and discounts from reputable sellers daily. If you make a purchase using our links, CNET may earn a commission.
As Nintendo has recently increased its prices for the original Switch console, and while the Switch 2 has dodged that fate so far, the company has said that "price adjustments may be necessary in the future." As we're pretty sure nobody wants to pay more for the console, and with preorders for the new Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle available right now, you'll want to pick this console up soon.
See at AmazonWe're also keeping track of the accessories you'll want for your new console, from screen protectors to cameras.
This story is part of
Nintendo Switch 2, a collection of all things related to Nintendo's next-gen game console.
Watch this: We Finally Unbox and Play the Switch 2. Should You Buy One?
09:23
Amazon: Invite-only availabilityBest Buy: In stockCostco: In stockGameStop: In stockNewegg: Currently sold outNintendo: In stockStaples: Available in select storesTarget: In stockWalmart: In stockNintendo Switch 2 at AmazonAmazon has dropped the console-only and Mario Kart World bundle online, but you'll have to request an invite if you're looking to grab one. Availability is sure to be limited, so get your order in soon if you don't want to miss out. If you're in Canada, you can now shop for either the standalone console or the Mario Kart World bundle.
Amazon You can request an invite for a chance to grab either version of the console right now at Amazon.
Details
See at Amazon (console only)
See at Amazon (MKW bundle)
Close
Amazon Canada Canadian shoppers are in luck if they're hoping to grab either the standalone console or the Mario Kart World bundle at Amazon. Both are in stock right now. The Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle is available to preorder ahead of the October release of the game.
Details
See at Amazon (console only)
See at Amazon (MKW bundle)
See at Amazon (PLZA bundle)
Close
Joy-Con 2 (two-pack): $99Joy-Con 2 charging grip: $40Joy-Con 2 Wheel (two-pack): $25Nintendo Switch 2 camera: $54Samsung microSD Express card (256GB): $59Nintendo Switch 2 at Best BuyBest Buy has both versions of the console in stock, but be aware that availability may vary by location. Best Buy is also offering preorders for the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle, but they're currently unavailable.
Best Buy Best Buy currently has both versions of the console in stock online, and you may be able to find them available in person depending on where you're located. If you're waiting for the next Pokemon installment to drop before grabbing a Switch 2, the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle will also be available to preorder ahead of the October game release.
Details
See at Best Buy (console only)
See at Best Buy (MKW bundle)
See at Best Buy (PLZA bundle)
Close
Best Buy Canada Best Buy Canada has online availability for the standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle right now. You can also preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle.
Details
See at Best Buy (console only)
See at Best Buy (MKW bundle)
See at Best Buy (PLZA bundle)
Close
Samsung 256GB microSD Express Even with the Switch 2's boosted storage, you may want to increase its memory with a microSD card. This Samsung Express microSD is designed specifically for Nintendo's new console and features a unique Mario-inspired design. It's also available now, no wait required.
Details
See at Best Buy
Close
Joy-Con 2 charging grip: $40Joy-Con 2 Wheel (2-pack): $25Nintendo Switch 2 carrying case and screen protector: $40 (currently sold out)Nintendo Switch 2 camera: $55Nintendo Switch 2 AC adapter: $35Nintendo Switch 2 at GameStopThe standalone console is sold out online at GameStop, but the Mario Kart World bundle is now in stock. You may also be able to find one at your nearest location if you're lucky -- but move fast, as stock is likely limited. If you're shopping internationally, GameStop Canada has both the standalone and Mario Kart World bundle in stock online, and you can preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle, which releases on Oct. 16.
GameStop US GameStop has the Mario Kart World bundle available to buy online right now. There is also in-store availability in multiple locations.
Details
See at GameStop (console only)
See at GameStop (MKW bundle)
See at GameStop (PLZA bundle)
Close
GameStop Canada The Switch 2 standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle are in stock at GameStop Canada. The Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle is also available to preorder ahead of the October release of the game.
Details
See at GameStop (console only)
See at GameStop (MKW bundle)
See at GameStop (PLZA bundle)
Close
Joy-Con 2 (two-pack): $100Joy-Con 2 straps: $15Nintendo Switch 2 all-in-one carrying case: $85 (currently sold out)Nintendo Switch 2 camera: $55Samsung 256GB microSD Express: $60Nintendo Switch 2 at WalmartWalmart has both versions of the console in stock online and is also offering preorders for the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle. As of right now, all consoles are being sold and shipped by Walmart directly, but it's important to note that there are many unverified, third-party vendors on its site as well. We recommend avoiding these, so be sure to double-check that you're buying from Walmart or Nintendo directly.
Walmart US Walmart has the Mario Kart World bundle available online, as well as in-store availability at many locations. The Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle is also available to preorder ahead of the October release of the game.Note that unverified third-party retailers are selling the standalone console for inflated prices. We recommend avoiding this, so be sure to double-check that you're getting the version marked as "sold and shipped by Walmart."
Details
See at Walmart (console only)
See at Walmart (MKW bundle)
See at Walmart (PLZA bundle)
Close
Walmart Canada Walmart Canada has both the standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle in stock at the time of publishing.
Details
See at Walmart (console only)
See at Walmart (MKW bundle)
Close
Joy-Con 2 Wheel (two-pack): $25Joy-Con 2 charging grip: $40Nintendo Switch 2 camera: $54Nintendo Switch 2 carrying case and screen protector: $46Nintendo Switch 2 AC adapter: $35Nintendo Switch 2 at TargetYou can order the standalone console or the Mario Kart World bundle online right now at Target. You may also find them in-store near you, but it will depend on your location. Target also has the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle available for preorder.
Target Target has the standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle available online. You can also shop for the console in-store, although availability will vary by location. The Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle preorder is even available.
Details
See at Target (console only)
See at Target (MKW bundle)
See at Target (PLZA bundle)
Close
Samsung 256GB microSD Express Even with the Switch 2's boosted storage, you may be looking to increase its memory with a microSD card. This Samsung Express microSD is designed specifically for Nintendo's new console and even features a unique Mario-inspired design.
Details
See at Target
Close
Joy-Con 2 (two-pack): $100Joy-Con 2 straps: $15Nintendo Switch 2 Pro Controller: $90Nintendo Switch 2 camera: $55Nintendo Switch 2 all-in-one carrying case: $85 (currently sold out)Nintendo Switch 2 at NeweggAs of now, Newegg is sold out of both versions of the console, and it's unclear when the next restock will be. It's also worth noting that Newegg is slightly less popular than major retailers like Target or Walmart, which could give you a better chance of securing an order during any future direct restocks, so keep an eye out.
Newegg Both the standalone console and Mario Kart World bundle are sold out. Newegg has not announced a specific restock event but we recommend checking back regularly. Note that third-party resellers with inflated prices are selling at Newegg right now but we definitely recommend avoiding this.
Details
See at Newegg (console only)
See at Newegg (MKW bundle)
Close
Nintendo Switch 2 camera This compact camera plugs directly into the Switch 2 console or dock's USB-C port. It allows you to chat with friends or access in-game features for select titles. The camera has a wide-angle lens, which you can adjust to keep yourself in frame easily. It also automatically adjusts its brightness so your face is always visible.
Details
$65 at Newegg
Close
Joy-Con 2 charging grip: $60 (currently sold out)Joy-Con 2 Wheel (two-pack): $41Nintendo Switch 2 Pro Controller: $100Nintendo Switch 2 carrying case and screen protector: $40 (currently sold out)Nintendo Switch 2 at NintendoNintendo no longer requires an invitation to order the Switch 2, which means you can grab either version of the console without registering or jumping through any hoops. You can also preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle before it is released on Oct. 16.
Nintendo US Nintendo has now dropped its invitation requirement, which means you can now order either version of the console directly from the manufacturer. The Pokemon Legends: Z-A is also available for preorder.
Details
See at Nintendo (console only)
See at Nintendo (MKW bundle)
See at Nintendo (PLZA bundle)
Close
Nintendo Canada Just like US shoppers, Canadian gamers no longer need an invitation to order the Switch 2 directly from Nintendo.
Details
See at Nintendo (console only)
See at Nintendo (MKW bundle)
See at Nintendo (PLZA bundle)
Close
Nintendo Switch 2 Pro Controller If you prefer a more traditional gaming experience, Nintendo also has the Switch 2 Pro Controller available now, without registration or other special requirements.
Details
See at Nintendo
Close
Nintendo Switch 2 at CostcoAs of right now, Costco has its own version of the Switch 2 console bundle available online, but note that you will need a membership if you're hoping to buy one here.
Costco Costco has the Switch 2 available, but you'll still need a membership to shop here. The Costco version includes the Mario Kart World bundle along with a 12-month Nintendo Switch Online and expansion pack individual membership.
Details
See at Costco
Close
Nintendo Switch 2 at StaplesSeveral Staples stores around the country have the Switch 2 available for purchase in-store. You can check the list of participating locations here, but this does not reflect current availability. It's worth noting that the retailer has announced on its site that stock is now very low.
Staples Staples does not have the Switch 2 available to buy online but you can find a limited supply of Switch 2 consoles available in store. Please note that not all locations are participating and orders are limited to one per person. Supplies are very low, according to Staples.
Details
See at Staples
Close
UK Nintendo Switch 2 ordersUK shoppers have plenty of places to pick up the Switch 2. It's available for purchase directly from Nintendo, as well as through multiple other retailers right now. We have all the details below. We'll continue to check for restocks and keep you posted.Note: We have no confirmation that the digital download code for Mario Kart World in the UK Switch 2 bundle will work with non-UK Nintendo accounts. The power cables are also different for each region. If you plan to buy a UK Switch 2 from outside the country, please know there's no guarantee it'll work as expected.
Amazon UK Both versions of the console are currently sold out at Amazon, UK, but we could see a pre-holiday restock in the coming weeks.
Details
See at Amazon (console only)
See at Amazon (MKW bundle)
Close
Nintendo UK UK shoppers don't need an invitation to purchase the Switch 2 directly from Nintendo, but they will need to log in to their Nintendo account. Games and accessories are also available now.
Details
See at Nintendo
Close
John Lewis The standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle are both sold out online, but you may also be able to score a console in store at select locations.
Details
See at John Lewis (console only)
See at John Lewis (MKW bundle)
Close
Argos The standalone console and Mario Kart World bundle are currently in stock online but you'll need to check your postcode to find out more about your delivery and collection options.
Details
See at Argos (console only)
See at Argos (MKW bundle)
Close
ShopTo The Switch 2 standalone console is sold out, but ShopTo has the Mario Kart World bundle available. Also, you can preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle.
Details
See at ShopTo (console only)
See at ShopTo (MKW bundle)
See at ShopTo (PLZA bundle)
Close
Very Very has the Mario World Kart bundle and several other bonus bundle offers that include bonus games, microSD cards and more available now. You can also preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle, which is available on Oct. 16.
Details
See at Very
See at Very (MKW bundle)
See at Very (PLZA bundle)
Close
Smyths The standalone console is sold out online, though you can find it available at quite a few in-store locations. The Mario Kart World bundle is currently in stock, and you can also preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle, which releases on Oct. 16.
Details
See at Smyths (console only)
See at Smyths (MKW bundle)
See at Smyths (PLZA bundle)
Close
EE The standalone console is sold out online, but EE mobile customers can get the Mario Kart World bundle.
Details
See at EE (console only)
See at EE (MKW bundle)
Close
Currys Both the standalone Switch 2 and the Mario Kart World bundle are available online at the time of publishing.
Details
See at Currys (console only)
See at Currys (MKW bundle)
Close
Game The Mario Kart World bundle is available online and you can preorder the Pokemon Legends: Z-A bundle, but you'll also find plenty of games and accessories in stock.
Details
See at Game
See at Game (MKW bundle)
See at Game (PLZA bundle)
Close
The Game Collection The Game Collection has availability for both the standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle right now.
Details
See at Game Collection (console only)
See at Game Collection (MKW bundle)
Close
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group!
Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
Sign Up
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to receive recurring marketing messages at the phone number provided. Consent is not a condition of purchase. Reply STOP to unsubscribe. Msg & data rates may apply. View our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
When can I order the Nintendo Switch 2?It was a little tough to get your hands on the Switch 2 for a few weeks after its release in June, but things have calmed down since then. Nintendo and retailers like Best Buy, Walmart and Target have both the standalone console and the Mario Kart World bundle available. Stocks fluctuate and the console will occasionally sell out at one retailer or another, but you can almost always find one available either online or in person. Read more: How Nintendo Is Combating Switch 2 ScalpersHow much does the Nintendo Switch 2 cost?The standalone console costs $450, and the Mario Kart World bundle is $500. It doesn't look like that will be changing any time soon, but Nintendo recently increased its prices for the original Switch console, as well as a handful games and accessories. The Switch 2 console has not been affected so far, but the company said that "price adjustments may be necessary in the future."Will the Nintendo Switch 2 come in other colors?For the new Switch 2, Nintendo has ditched the colored Joy-Cons for a more sleek, monochrome look -- although there are still pops of red and blue around the analog sticks. As of now, Nintendo hasn't said anything about additional colors. Additionally, it's rumored that Samsung -- which makes the displays for the Switch 2 -- is pushing for an OLED version of the console.Is the Nintendo Switch 2 Mario Kart World Bundle worth it?The Mario Kart series has been a long-standing tentpole for Nintendo and fans were thrilled to hear that a new title would be accompanying the new console. But the excitement was dampened by the announcement that the new game will come with an increased price tag: $80 for the digital edition or $90 if you want a physical copy. However, you can bundle a digital copy with the console for $500 total, which saves you $30 compared with buying them separately. It's an excellent value if it's a game you're certain you want in your library and likely the only "discount" we'll see on this title for quite some time. Plus, Nintendo recently announced that this bundle will be available only "through fall 2025," which means you'll have a limited chance to take advantage of these savings.
Nintendo Switch 2: What are people saying?There are still some mixed feelings about Nintendo's newest console. While some are happy to see that Nintendo hasn't altered much about the wildly popular original Switch, others feel not enough has changed to justify the $150 price hike -- with CNET gaming expert Scott Stein calling it a console that "feels a lot like an updated version of a system many people already own." The confirmation that the US tariffs won't be leading to any further price increases has helped stifle gamers' exasperation a bit, but many are still unhappy with the fact that select games will be selling for up to $20 more than the standard $60. We're eager to see if most gamers consider the price hikes worth it now that they're finally getting their hands on the new console and games.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.