Defense Secretary Hegseth requires new 'pledge' for Pentagon reporters : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Defense Secretary Hegseth requires new 'pledge' for Pentagon reporters The Pentagon is implementing new guidelines that will require journalists to sign a pledge and agree to report only approved and officially released information.
Politics
Defense Secretary Hegseth requires new 'pledge' for reporters at the Pentagon
Updated September 20, 202512:25 PM ET
Originally published September 20, 20255:36 AM ET
By
Quil Lawrence
,
Alana Wise
U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth speaks during a news conference at the Pentagon on June 26.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
The Pentagon will drastically change its rules for journalists who cover the Department of Defense, two U.S. officials who are not authorized to speak publicly confirmed to NPR Friday. The move drew sharp criticism from news organizations, who said it violated the bedrock of a free press.
Politics
Defense Secretary Hegseth puts new limits on press access at the Pentagon
Going forward, journalists must sign a pledge not to gather any information, including unclassified reports, that hasn't been authorized for release. Using the rebranded "Department of War" acronym, "DoW," the 17-page document obtained by NPR outlining the new rules for the media says those who fail to obey the new policy will lose their press credentials — cutting off access to the headquarters of the largest department in the U.S. government. "DoW remains committed to transparency to promote accountability and public trust," the document said. "However, DoW information must be approved for public release by an appropriate authorizing official before it is released, even if it is unclassified."
Sponsor Message
Politics
President Trump signs order to rename the Defense Department as the Department of War
According to the document, journalists who report on news outside of the explicit commands of the Pentagon could be deemed "a security or safety risk" and have their credentials stripped.
Writing about the shift, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth posted Friday on social media that, "The 'press' does not run the Pentagon — the people do." Earlier this year, Hegseth announced new rules limiting reporters' ability to move freely through the Pentagon without an approved escort — a change that broke years of tradition of both Democratic and Republican administrations.
Media
What does free speech mean?
What does free speech mean?
Listen
·
5:45
5:45
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5546602/nx-s1-9460458" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
"The press is no longer allowed to roam the halls of a secure facility. Wear a badge and follow the rules — or go home," Hegseth wrote in the Friday tweet.
These new restrictions fall in line with the broader policy of the Trump administration to attempt to limit coverage from outlets who President Trump has deemed unfair. Hegseth's decision was quickly and sharply derided by members of the media and proponents of a free press, who noted that pre-approval of reportable material would limit the ability of reporters to provide vital news to the public about America's military.
"This is a direct assault on independent journalism at the very place where independent scrutiny matters most: the U.S. military," National Press Club President Mike Balsamo said in a statement.
Trump White House seeks tighter grip on message with new limits on press
"For generations, Pentagon reporters have provided the public with vital information about how wars are fought, how defense dollars are spent, and how decisions are made that put American lives at risk. That work has only been possible because reporters could seek out facts without needing government permission." The Pentagon Press Association said it was aware of the new policy and was in the process of reviewing it. Thomas Evans, NPR's editor-in-chief, said: "NPR is taking this very seriously. We'll be working with other news organizations to push back. We're big fans of the 1st Amendment and transparency and we want the American public to understand what's being done in their name."
Sponsor Message
Disclosure: This story was written and reported by NPR Correspondents Quil Lawrence, Alana Wise and David Folkenflik. It was edited by Senior Editor Avie Schneider, Editor Miguel Macias and Deputy Managing Editor Jim Kane. Under NPR's protocol for covering itself, no news executive or corporate official reviewed the story before it was posted publicly. NPR's David Folkenflik contributed reporting.
Pentagon
Pete Hegseth
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor