Best Amazon Prime Day phone deals 2025: My 15 favorite sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Best Amazon Prime Day phone deals 2025: I'm tracking over 15 of my favorite discounts before October
We scoured Amazon's October Prime Day catalogs for the top early deals on the best phones we tested and recommended.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
and
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 8:13 a.m. PT
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 | for $1,700 (save $300)
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7
for $1,700 (save $300)
View now View at Amazon Motorola Razr Ultra 2025 | for $1,100 (save $200)
Motorola Razr Ultra 2025
for $1,100 (save $200)
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra | for $1,075 (save $225)
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
for $1,075 (save $225)
View now View at Amazon Nothing Phone (2a) Plus | for $289 (save $110)
Nothing Phone (2a) Plus
for $289 (save $110)
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge | for $700 (save $1100)
Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge
for $700 (save $1100)
View now View at Amazon
Motorola Moto G Power 2025 | for $250 (save $50)
Motorola Moto G Power 2025
for $250 (save $50)
View now View at Amazon Google Pixel 9 | for $649 (save $150)
Google Pixel 9
for $649 (save $150)
View now View at Amazon
Show more (2 items)
It's almost time for the holiday shopping season, and if you're an early bird shopper, Amazon's upcoming Prime Big Deal Days sale (also known as October Prime Day) should be right up your alley. While the big commerce event doesn't officially begin until Oct. 7-8, there are already several noteworthy deals on the latest smartphones available for you to take advantage of -- many of which we've tested and recommended at ZDNET. Also: The best phones we've tested this yearConsidering how close October Prime Day is to Black Friday and Cyber Monday, there's a good chance that prices won't drop any lower. (When in doubt, take advantage of Amazon's 30-day return policy or contact customer service for a price adjustment.) Here are the best early Prime Day phone deals we've found so far.Find Prime Day dealsBest phone deals for October Prime Day 2025An October Prime Day is an ideal time to upgrade your smartphone because you can make a more informed decision right now. All major launches from the likes of Apple, Samsung, and Google are out of the way, so you have a rough idea of how they stack up against each other. And Prime Day brings the price to a more affordable range on some of the best Android phones on the market. Here are some of the best early Prime Day 2025 deals that you shouldn't miss.
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 for $1,700 (save $300)
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNET
Current price: $1,700 Original price: $2,000The 256GB variant of Samsung's latest Galaxy Z Fold 7 is my ideal smartphone. You get plenty of storage on a smartphone that can be considered a design marvel. It is slim and light, supports seven years of software upgrades, sports versatile cameras, and big and bright displays. Samsung nailed it out of the park this year, and the deal price makes it more tempting than ever.Review: Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7
Show more
View now at Amazon
Motorola Razr Ultra 2025 for $1,100 (save $200)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $1,100Original price: $1,300The Motorola Razr Ultra 2025 is one of the most capable flip phones you can buy right now. It has a big inner display that can be folded into a tiny phone with a flexible cover screen. The outer display is perfect for quick tasks and instant replies, better than even Samsung's Galaxy Z Flip 7 in this regard.Review: Motorola Razr Ultra 2025
Show more
View now at Amazon
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra for $1,075 (save $225)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $1,075Original price: $1,300The Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra remains one of the best phones to buy in October 2025, despite being launched early in the year. It sports the best display on a smartphone that we've tested, versatility with four rear cameras, powerful performance, and a decent battery life. While the S Pen isn't what it used to be, it is still great for jotting down quick notes.Review: Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
Show more
View now at Amazon
Nothing Phone (2a) Plus for $289 (save $110)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $289Original price: $399The Nothing Phone (2a) Plus will get you one of the best software experiences under $300. It sports a big, legible screen, plenty of power under the hood, and smart OS features that improve the user experience. Plus, the battery will last you all day.Review: Nothing Phone (2a) Plus
Show more
View now at Amazon
Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge for $700 (save $1100)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $700Original price: $1,100The one true Apple iPhone Air rival, Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge, is the thinnest Android flagship phone you can buy. I consider it the true compact phone for content consumption, and you still get one more camera lens than the Apple counterpart. The battery life isn't as good as its more expensive Ultra sibling, but it is a great phone for everyday use.Review: Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge
Show more
View now at Amazon
Motorola Moto G Power 2025 for $250 (save $50)
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNET
Current price: $250Original price: $300The Moto G Power remains my go-to recommendation for those who want excellent battery life on their new phone for under $300. It'll easily last you more than a day, despite its tall display, satisfactory cameras and smooth OS. On Prime Day sale, this is one of the best phones you can buy under $250.Review: Motorola Moto G Power 2025
Show more
View now at Amazon
Google Pixel 9 for $649 (save $150)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $649Original price: $800Last year's Google Pixel flagship is still a solid offering with $150 discount. It'll provide long software support, above-average cameras, smooth user experience, and new features with Pixel Drop updates. If the new Pixel 10 isn't for you for some reason, the Pixel 9 is a good alternative.Review: Google Pixel 9
Show more
View now at Amazon
More October Prime Day phone dealsIf you are looking for more phone deals, there are several other options to consider this sale season.Samsung Galaxy S25: $680 (save $120): The base model of Samsung's flagship lineup is already going for $120 off. It offers a lighter design in a familiar form. It is one of the best Samsung phones right now.Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7 FE: $700 (save $200): The most affordable Samsung flip phone right now can be had at a big discount, and it comes with the same software features as the Flip 7.CMF Phone 1: $209 (save $80): Nothing's sub-brand, CMF makes great value for money devices, and the CMF Phone 1 is one of them, especially at this price.. Motorola Razr Plus 2025: $904 (save $100): This, in hot pin,k is one of the most stylish phones of the year. You get the best of Motorola in head-turning flip form factor.OnePlus 13R $549 (save $50): The best Google Pixel 9a alternative, OnePlus 13R offers a better display, faster chargin,g and longer-lasting battery life.Oukitel WP55 rugged smartphone: $290 (save $70): If you want a rugged phone but don't want to spend more than $300, look no further; the Oukitel WP55 will serve you well. FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? Amazon has officially announced the arrival of October Prime Day 2025. It will be a two-day event in early October. The official dates are set as October 7-8, but expect more deals to go live as we head towards the big sale.Are smartphones really cheaper on Prime Day? Yes, smartphones are cheaper on Prime Day, especially now in October. This sale commences right before big events like Black Friday and Cyber Monday, so prices are unlikely to drop further. Grab the deals before they expire.How did we choose these October Prime Day deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy. We consider products from our personal experience with each one of them. These are the phones that we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. So, we also reviewed customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research, and comparison shopping. What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget deals
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I test dozens of phones every year: How iPhone 17 stacks up with Google, Samsung, more
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use