Laws and legal issues | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Laws and legal issues
Request copies of vital records and ID cards
Find a lawyer and affordable legal aid
Family legal issues
Prisons and prisoners
Crime reporting, victim support, and crime statistics
Authenticate an official document
State attorneys general
Federal laws and regulations
Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Laws and legal issues
Laws and legal issues
Most popular
Get a certified copy of a U.S. birth certificate
Look up prisoners and prison records
Get a copy of a marriage certificate or marriage license
Replace vital documents, and get help with child support. Learn how to find a lawyer, see crime statistics, and get support after a crime. Find out who to notify when someone dies.
Get copies of vital records and ID cards
Find out how to replace vital documents such as birth certificates, Social Security cards, and more.
Find a lawyer for affordable legal aid
Learn how to get free legal advice and find a free or low-cost attorney.
Family legal issues
Learn about child support, changing your name, and notifying agencies and businesses after a death.
Prisons and prisoners
Learn how to find, visit, or send money to prisoners. Get prison records and file prison complaints.
Report crime, find victim support, and get crime statistics
Learn where to report different types of crime. Find out where to get support if you experienced a crime, and get crime data for your area.
Authenticate an official document for use outside the U.S.
Apostilles and authentication certificates show U.S. documents are genuine. Learn when to use each.
State attorneys general
Find your attorney general, the top legal officer in your state or territory.
Federal laws and regulations
Get copies of your government files. Research federal laws and regulations. Learn about copyrights.
Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts
Learn about bankruptcy courts, immigration courts, and more.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests