PC second screen costs just $2.57 on AliExpress — but this sub-1-inch USB-connected display won’t be for everyone | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Gaming Monitors
Alienware AW2525HM 25-inch 320 Hz gaming monitor review: Colorful and competition-ready
Portable Monitors
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
Monitors
Asus ProArt PA32QCV 6K professional monitor review: Plenty of pixels, color, and brightness
Gaming Monitors
Best Gaming Monitors 2025: Budget, Curved, G-Sync and More
Portable Monitors
Save up to 40% on these portable monitors
PC Components
Save $700 on the LG Ultragear 39-Inch OLED curved ultrawide monitor
PC Components
Asus' dual-mode 32-inch dual-mode gaming monitor is on sale for just $500
PC Components
This 15.6-inch IPS portable monitor is 36% off
Portable Monitors
E-paper hits 75 Hz to better suit productivity tasks
Ultrabooks and Ultraportables
Tiny GPD MicroPC 2 smashes crowdfunding goal
Handheld Gaming
DIYer creates the PC gaming handheld of your widest dreams
Retro Gaming
Faux-CRT monitor designed to pair up with retro mini PCs to recreate CRT feeling
Portable Monitors
Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF 27-inch monitor review: A slick portable screen with solid gaming performance
Raspberry Pi
Raspberry Pi releases smaller five-inch Touch Display 2 — lower in price, same resolution as larger model
Monitors
Portable Monitors
PC second screen costs just $2.57 on AliExpress — but this sub-1-inch USB-connected display won’t be for everyone
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
21 September 2025
A 3.5-inch AIDA64 compatible model at under $11 seems more useful.
Comments (2)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: WeAct on AliExpress)
Second screens can be a great asset, and easily pay for themselves by precipitating a productivity boost. They come in all shapes and sizes, leveraging a broad range of technologies, but some products could leave you scratching your head about the best way to fit them into your setup. Especially tiny sub 1-inch screens.A peculiar case in point we noticed today is the $2.57 WeAct Display FS, listed on AliExpress. That price point seems irresistible for a highly-portable USB interface second screen. However, its postage stamp dimensions (it has a tiny 0.96-inch diagonal screen), means it is something of a curate’s egg. This tiny screen isn’t going to worry the makers of the best portable monitors, but could have its niche use cases.
(Image credit: WeAct on AliExpress)The dimensions of the WeAct Display FS are more like a typical thumb drive storage device than a portable monitor. Specifications suggest the entire device measures 43 x 14.5mm, but we don’t have a thickness measurement to share.
You may like
This 15.6-inch IPS portable monitor is 36% off
Save up to 40% on these portable monitors
E-paper hits 75 Hz to better suit productivity tasks
Another significant way it strays from the portable second screen norms is that WeAct’s tiny screen doesn’t accept a USB-C or HDMI connection – it has a captive USB-A interface (again, like many USB thumb drives). The connector is reversible in this instance, with an insulator pad supplied for the unused side.One side of the WeAct Display FS is almost entirely taken up by its screen. As mentioned previously, this has a 0.96-inch diagonal. Using a bit of math, we can work out that the actual screen measures ~0.429 x 0.858 inches (~10.9 x 24.4mm).Across this tiny display, there are 160 x 80 pixels (thus a 2:1 ratio). We also know the display uses the RGB565 (16-bit) color format, delivering up to 65,536 colors, which should be ample for its touted applications.WeAct reckons that its little Display FS device is going to be useful for both system monitor and media projection applications. Indeed, two Windows applications are supplied, which are crafted for these purposes.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Image 1 of 2(Image credit: WeAct on AliExpress)(Image credit: WeAct on AliExpress)CNX Software notes that the code upon which the WeAct Studio System Monitor is based is open source. Thus, it is theoretically possible to use the WeAct Display FS and this app on systems other than Windows. Any Python supporting OS should do the trick, but you’ll have to do more leg work to use this device as a tiny second screen on macOS or Linux, for example.The origin of the WeAct Studio Screen Projection app isn’t known, and it is thought to be a Windows-only app which emulates a Windows display. It is shown being configured to replay images / video from other screens. CNX Software expects it to be able to be used as a full-screen YouTube video or photo gallery playback device.If this kind of tiny second screen has you intrigued, but the WeAct Display FS is too small for you, we spotted similar but larger devices on AliExpress. Moving the budget up to $10.76 means you could grab a 3.5-inch IPS Type-C Computer Secondary Screen, which is advertised as a great AIDA64-based system monitor (a very similar screen is $26 on Amazon). Stylishly circular 2.1-inch IPS screens with USB-C connectivity can be grabbed from $27.16 via AliExpress. But that’s a significant circular premium to pay. Remember to check postage costs on AliExpress, too.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See more Portable Monitors News
See all comments (2)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
This 15.6-inch IPS portable monitor is 36% off
Save up to 40% on these portable monitors
E-paper hits 75 Hz to better suit productivity tasks
Tiny GPD MicroPC 2 smashes crowdfunding goal
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
DIYer creates the PC gaming handheld of your widest dreams
Latest in Portable Monitors
Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF 27-inch monitor review: A slick portable screen with solid gaming performance
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Save up to 40% on these portable monitors
E-paper hits 75 Hz to better suit productivity tasks
Espresso Displays 15 Pro portable monitor review: Bright and colorful with 4K charm
Dell Pro 14 Plus (P1425) 14-inch portable monitor review: Long on performance, short on value
Latest in News
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
SoftBank beams 5G to phones from the sky in successful stratospheric test flight
Amazon sends a literal brick to a customer in lieu of the RTX 5080 they ordered
Radeon RX 9070 gains 25% performance in synthetic benchmarks using RX 9070 XT vBIOS
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone
2 Comments
Comment from the forums
EgyptT
"means it is something of a curate’s egg"
please consider your foreign readers
Reply
Misgar
I followed the link to the 3.5" screen on Aliexpress, but rather than costing "from US $27", it's the equivalent of US $42 including local taxes in my country, if you no longer qualify for their "Welcome Deal". At that price, I'll give the larger screen a miss.
I've known the meaning of Curate's egg since childhood. For "foreign readers" might I suggest a quick search on the world wiid web? This is what I found on Wikipedia.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curate%27s_egg
I occasionally meet "Americanisms" on Tom's that I don't understand, but I benefit from discovering new vernacular and idioms. It's a big world.:)
Reply
View All 2 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.