Marvel Zombies delivers on the potential of What If...?
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The gore-soaked miniseries offers twisted looks at key moments from the MCU
Marvel Zombies finally delivers on the potential of What If...?
By
Samantha Nelson
Published 11 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Marvel Television
Marvel’s What If…? comics twist the stories of its heroes and villains outside official continuity, providing the opportunity to kill off characters and imagine particularly wacky or bleak versions of its universe. While the writers of the Disney Plus animated series What If…? used those stories as inspiration, they largely squandered the opportunity to take creative risks with the Marvel Cinematic Universe, ultimately abandoning the anthology format to focus on a multiversal team-up instead.
Thankfully, the spinoff miniseries Marvel Zombies actually lives up to the promise of What If through its graphic reimagining of some of the MCU’s biggest moments. Director Bryan Andrews continues the loose adaptation of Robert Kirkman’s Marvel Zombies comic series from What If season 1 with a twisty and emotional story about heroism in a broken world. [Ed. note: This article contains some spoilers for Marvel Zombies]
Image: Marvel Television
Andrews and writer Zeb Wells take the somewhat ridiculous cliffhanger of “What If… Zombies?!” and uses it to retell the events of Avengers: Infinity War and Avengers: Endgame. Like in Infinity War, the heroes converge on Wakanda to battle Thanos (in this case a zombie) in the hopes of saving the world. Multiple heroes sacrifice themselves in the fight, but their efforts are largely in vain as they fail to stop the zombie plague and instead set up an even greater threat to Earth. While Endgame picks up five years later with the heroes seeking to use time travel to undo their failures, Marvel Zombies dwells on the aftermath. It makes excellent use of the MCU’s Phase Four heroes, offering new versions of their origin stories and demonstrating how they try to survive and dare to hope for a better future. Kamala Khan (Iman Vellani) received her magical bangle right before the plague broke, and Kate Bishop (Hailee Steinfeld) assumes the mantle of Hawkeye even as she’s hunted by zombified Clint Barton. Riri Williams (Dominique Thorne) is far more heroic here than in her own show, controlling the armor she took off Tony Stark’s headless corpse. Characters taking a road trip through the zombie apocalypse in the hopes of finding a way to save the world is a tried and true cliche, but Vellani sells the youthful optimism that motivates her to make the journey when so many others have given up. The travel allows the show to provide looks at the way other heroes and villains have weathered the apocalypse. The series improves on Endgame’s version of a broken Thor (Greg Furman), avoiding playing his situation for laughs and instead painting him as a tragic, scarred figure. I wish Marvel Zombies had spent more time visiting S.H.I.E.L.D.’s underwater prison, the Raft, now run by Baron Zemo (Rama Vallury). It could have been a compelling way to examine the conflict between security and freedom found in many post-apocalyptic tales.
Image: Marvel Television
The show’s MA rating allows Andrews to unleash gore, but his fight scenes would be striking even without all the blood and guts. The concept of the Valley of the Fallen Gods, where deathless heroes are locked in eternal battle, provides a gorgeous excuse to wreck scenery and a clever subversion of the eternal comic book question of who would win in a fight? The long anticipated battle between Captain America and Red Guardian (David Harbour) is hilarious when Cap is a zombified, legless torso. In another converging plotline, Andrews combines aspects of action sequences from Ant-Man and the Wasp and Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings for a frantic scene depicting the first moments of the zombie apocalypse. In just a few minutes, Marvel Zombies offers a funny and heartfelt retelling of the origin of Shang-Chi (Simu Liu), whose father Xu Wenwu (Feodor Chin) demonstrates both his desire to protect his family and his callous disregard for anyone else. Marvel Zombies improves on Doctor Strange and the Multiverse of Madness, too, presenting a far more compelling version of a villainous Wanda Maximoff (Elizabeth Olsen) than Sam Raimi ever did. The zombie Scarlet Witch was a disturbing figure in “What If… Zombies?!” but she’s truly terrifying here as she takes on the role of the Queen of the Dead and pursues her goals with a mix of raw psychic power, clever tricks, and the seductive promise that it would just be so much easier to surrender. What If…? should have been more ambitious, following the example of the comics to really explore how key characters could and plots could have been different rather than just focusing on Watcher politics or setting up goofy scenarios like Happy Hogan doing Die Hard. Marvel Zombies answers the question of what if Disney was willing to take more risks? Its bleak view of the MCU offers a glimpse at a more exciting future for the franchise.
Marvel
TV
Feature
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
5 days ago
Him star Julia Fox reveals her character's secret backstory
4 days ago
This anime fight is one of the best of all time, but not for the reason you might think
5 days ago
Towa and the Guardians of the Sacred Tree can’t escape Hades's shadow
2 days ago
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
More from our brands
‘What If…?’ Season 3 Cast and Character Guide: Which MCU Stars Appear Across the Multiverse?
"What If... What If?" Ending Explained
The Best Anime Series On Max, Ranked
Here’s How To Watch the Marvel Movies in Order (By Release Date and the MCU Timeline)
We’re Just One Week Away From The Return Of Marvel's Superman In The MCU
I Still Can't Believe Elizabeth Olsen's Scarlet Witch Is Returning To The MCU In 2025 But Not How I Expected
15 Highest Rated What If...? Episodes, Ranked
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
'Anime GTA' game Ananta also lifts from Spider-Man to be the uber-open-world RPG
Black Phone 2 is scarier than the original movie — and more complicated
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.