Best VPN for Amazon Fire TV Stick in 2025: Unblock Region-Restricted Content on Your TV - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
Best VPN for Amazon Fire TV Stick in 2025: Unblock Region-Restricted Content on Your TV
One of the best VPNs for Amazon Fire TV streaming devices lets you access geographically restricted streaming content, like foreign Netflix libraries or regional sports matches such as NFL games.
Article updated on August 15, 2025 at 5:30 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best VPN for Fire TV Stick overall
ExpressVPN
Privacy protection and transparency
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
See Price at ExpressVPN
9
/10
SCORE
Usability
10
Value
7
Speed
9
Privacy
10
Features
9
Pros
Excellent unblocking capabilities on Fire TV Stick
Easy-to-use Fire TV Stick app
Fast speeds for streaming in 4K
Large server network
Cons
Very expensive
Convoluted pricing structure
No way to opt out of potentially unwanted extra features
Price
$13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)Latest Tests
No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,000 plus servers in 105 countriesJurisdiction
British Virgin Islands Full Review
Read full review
Why we like it ExpressVPN is a top-notch VPN provider that demonstrates a steadfast commitment to privacy and transparency. It’s a safe choice for privacy-conscious VPN users, and also a fantastic option for casual users because it’s extremely simple to use, fast and excellent for streaming -- which is what helps make it a top-notch VPN for Fire TV Stick. In July 2025, ExpressVPN revealed that it had servers in all 50 states, so it's a great option for streaming regional content, like NFL games or WNBA matches.Why we like it With ExpressVPN, you’ll get a simple Fire TV Stick app interface that's a breeze to navigate, making ExpressVPN an ideal choice for beginners. In addition to its Fire TV Stick VPN app, ExpressVPN has apps for Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS, Apple TV, Android TV and even a newly released GUI app for Linux. ExpressVPN’s streaming performance was impressive on all platforms I tested, including my Fire TV Stick 4K Max. I was able to access content from popular streaming sites like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, HBO Max and Amazon Prime Video. You can connect up to eight devices simultaneously with ExpressVPN, which is fewer than many other VPNs offer (NordVPN allows for 10 and Surfshark unlimited), but should still be enough for most users.You’ll want fast speeds for data-heavy activities like streaming -- especially if you want to stream on your Fire TV Stick in 4K, where you'll need speeds of 25Mbps at a minimum but ideally closer to 50Mbps. Thankfully, ExpressVPN delivers. We measured an 18% average speed loss in our latest speed tests with ExpressVPN, which represented a significant improvement over our previous testing. With a generous global network of 3,000-plus servers in 105 countries, you'll have lots of options for streaming international content, as well as fast, stable connections from wherever you are.
Read more
If you have heightened privacy needs, you’ll appreciate ExpressVPN’s approach to transparency and user privacy. The provider has a strict no-logging policy and leads the industry with 23 independent audits since 2018, and sets a standard by consistently rolling out innovative privacy improvements. ExpressVPN has kept pace with post-quantum security standards and integrated ML-KEM into the Lightway protocol to beef up its post-quantum protections. IP Shuffle is another helpful feature that works in the background and changes your IP address each time you load a website, which helps make it even more difficult to track you online. ExpressVPN’s kill switch works as advertised, and we encountered no leaks in our latest tests. The VPN employs industry-standard AES 256-bit and ChaCha20 encryption with its Lightway protocol and also supports OpenVPN and IKEv2 protocols. Its TrustedServer technology takes the RAM-only server infrastructure to the next level by reinstalling the entire server stack in addition to wiping any data with every reboot.ExpressVPN is a well-rounded VPN and one of the very best you can buy. But the catch is that you’ll pay a premium. The monthly subscription plan costs $13 per month, which is pretty standard across the industry. If you choose the yearly subscription, you’ll pay $100 for the first year or $140 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $117 annually). Those prices are approximately in line with what NordVPN charges: $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 for the first two years combined (then $140 per year upon renewal for the one- and two-year plans). Other top VPNs like Surfshark and Proton VPN are considerably cheaper -- both of which renew at $80 per year after an introductory $48 for the first year (Surfshark) or $60 for the first year (Proton). ExpressVPN offers a seven-day free trial, followed by a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you have the opportunity to try the service before buying or fully committing.Also featured in: Best VPN for Streaming, Best VPN for Netflix
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best value VPN for Fire TV Stick
Surfshark
Extensive features at a great price
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at Surfshark
8.6
/10
SCORE
Usability
9
Value
9
Speed
8
Privacy
8
Features
9
Pros
Fast speeds for streaming on Fire TV Stick
User-friendly Fire TV Stick app
Large international network of servers
Excellent streaming performance on Fire TV Stick
Cons
Issues streaming Hulu on Fire TV Stick
Recent increase to renewal price
14-Eyes jurisdiction (Netherlands)
Price
$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 21% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,200-plus servers in 100 countriesJurisdiction
Netherlands Full Review
Read full review
Why we like it Surfshark is a solid option for anyone looking for a premium VPN experience that's excellent on Fire TV Stick for a cheaper price than ExpressVPN or NordVPN. Surfshark boasts an impressive roster of useful premium features that deliver a lot of value despite a recent renewal price hike. It can’t quite match NordVPN’s speed or ExpressVPN’s overall privacy position, but it comes remarkably close at a lower price. All in all, Surfshark is a top-notch VPN that demonstrates consistent improvement year after year.Why we like itSurfshark’s Fire TV Stick app is simple to use and works like a charm to unblock content across various streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, HBO Max and Amazon Prime Video. However, Hulu detected Surfshark on Fire TV Stick and wouldn't give me access to its library, although I was able to unblock content from the site using Surfshark on other devices. In addition to its Fire TV Stick app, Surfshark has apps for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS, Apple TV and Android TV. I like that Surfshark offers unlimited simultaneous connections while most VPNs limit you to 10 or fewer -- this makes it an excellent option for large households or power users with many devices. I've been impressed with Surfshark’s consistently fast speeds over the past few years, with an average speed loss hovering in the high-teens. I measured an average speed loss of 21% in my 2025 speed tests -- which is technically slower than previous years, but shouldn’t result in a noticeable difference in practice, even for streaming in 4K on your Fire TV Stick. Surfshark’s network of over 3,200 servers across 100
countries is large, but somewhat smaller than those provided by ExpressVPN (105 countries), Proton VPN (122 countries) and NordVPN (126 countries). A large network of servers like what Surfshark offers can help get you access to a wide range of international streaming content and also ensure fast speeds and stable connections.
Read more
In addition to standard privacy protections like its kill switch, secure VPN protocols (WireGuard, IKEv2, OpenVPN), no-logs policy and DNS leak protection, Surfshark includes a few unique features that help it stand out from the pack. Dynamic Multihop lets you tunnel through any two server locations of your choosing for an added layer of privacy, and Rotating IP switches your IP address every few minutes, making it harder to track you online. Surfshark’s Alternative ID lets you create an alter-ego complete with full name, physical address, and email address that you can use online without divulging your true identity. Following the lead of other VPN providers, including ExpressVPN, Mullvad and NordVPN, Surfshark plans to roll out post-quantum protections this year to protect against potential future threats from quantum computers. Even though Surfshark is still playing catch-up in terms of transparency, I'm encouraged by company representatives telling me that a no-logs audit has been commissioned for this year (its first since 2022) and that the company is committing to annual third-party audits.While Surfshark’s $15.45-per-month rate makes it one of the most expensive monthly subscription prices in the industry, pricing for its longer-term plans is reasonable. The yearly plan costs $48 for the first year and the two-year plan costs $60 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually). Surfshark’s renewal prices increased this year, but its overall pricing is still significantly cheaper than ExpressVPN’s $100 for the first year or $140 total for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans renew at $117 annually), as well as NordVPN’s $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans renew at $140 ra year). Like many other VPNs, Surfshark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee in case you’re not satisfied with the service. Also featured in: Best VPN for Streaming, Best VPN for Your Smart TV
Photo Gallery 1/1
Fastest VPN for Fire TV Stick
NordVPN
Perfect for power users
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at NordVPN
8.8
/10
SCORE
Usability
8
Value
8
Speed
10
Privacy
9
Features
9
Pros
Fast speeds for streaming in 4K on Fire TV Stick
Expansive server network for international streaming
User-friendly Fire TV Stick app
Excellent for unblocking streaming content on Fire TV Stick
Cons
Extremely expensive renewal prices
Price
$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 3% average internet download speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
7,400-plus servers in 118 countriesJurisdiction
Panama Full Review
Read full review
Why we like it NordVPN is the VPN for you if you need blazing-fast speeds for 4K video streaming on your Fire TV Stick. It also offers a handful of privacy-boosting options and some innovative features such as Meshnet. While ExpressVPN remains slightly ahead in privacy and transparency, and other VPNs offer cheaper long-term prices, NordVPN still provides an impressive all-around service that continues to improve.Why we like itNordVPN is currently the fastest VPN based on our latest speed tests, with a mere 3% average speed loss -- its closest competitor was Proton VPN at 16% speed loss. In our testing, we found NordVPN excellent for streaming, with effortless unblocking of foreign Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney Plus and HBO Max libraries on Fire TV Stick. Additionally, we had no issues watching BBC iPlayer, CBC Gem, Hulu, Crunchyroll and several other regional streaming services. With an impressive network of 8,000-plus servers across 126 countries, NordVPN is excellent for international travel and streaming -- its global reach is slightly more than Proton VPN, Surfshark and ExpressVPN. Its 10-device simultaneous device allowance should be enough for most users, although some providers like Surfshark and PIA allow for unlimited simultaneous connections. In addition to its Fire TV Stick app, NordVPN offers apps for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS, Apple TV and Android TV.
Read more
NordVPN’s strong privacy chops go beyond the basics. Alongside OpenVPN and its WireGuard-based NordLynx protocol, NordVPN offers a proprietary obfuscation-oriented NordWhisper, which can help evade firewalls by disguising your VPN traffic as regular HTTPS traffic. NordWhisper could be helpful in situations when you're using school Wi-Fi, or any other instance where the network you’re on doesn’t play nicely with VPNs. NordVPN also offers double-hop connections and Onion over VPN servers for additional layers of privacy. Meshnet lets you create a virtual local network of PCs, mobile devices and streaming devices for secure file sharing, hosting LAN parties.NordVPN costs $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years. However, be aware that the one- and two-year plans renew at an astronomical $140 per year, which is considerably more than the $79 to $80 that Surfshark and Proton VPN renew for, but in the same ballpark as ExpressVPN's $117 a year renewal prices. A 30-day money-back guarantee is available for all purchases. Despite its exorbitant renewal price, NordVPN is a superb VPN for everyone, from streaming fanatics to users with critical privacy needs.Also featured in: Fastest VPN, Best VPN for Streaming
VPN DEALS OF THE WEEK
Norton VPN Plus for 72% Off Your First Year:  $30 (save $80)
ExpressVPN: $4.99 Per Month + 4 Months Free (64% Off 2 Years Plan):  $5 (save $8) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best VPN for Amazon Fire TV Stick in 2025: Unblock Region-Restricted Content on Your TV
What is the best VPN for Amazon Fire TV Stick in 2025?
Why use a VPN for Fire TV Stick?
How to choose the right VPN: Factors to consider in a Fire TV Stick VPN
How I tested VPNs on Fire TV Stick
How do I install a VPN on Amazon's Fire TV Stick?
Which Amazon Fire TV device is best for streaming with a VPN?
CNET speed test data
Other VPNs we tested on the Fire TV Stick
Amazon Fire TV Stick VPN FAQs
What is the best VPN for Amazon Fire TV Stick in 2025?
ExpressVPN is the best VPN for Fire TV Sticks overall, thanks to its extremely user-friendly app, quick connectivity and excellent streaming content unblocking. With servers in all 50 US states, ExpressVPN is a great VPN for streaming regional sports content, like NFL or WNBA games.
Screenshot/CNETSurfshark is the best value VPN for Amazon Fire TV devices because of its fast speeds and ability to access multiple Netflix regional libraries.
Screenshot by CNETNordVPN is the fastest VPN for Fire TV Stick users based on CNET’s hands-on testing, delivering an exceptionally smooth 4K streaming experience.
Screenshot by CNETThe top VPNs for Fire TV streaming devices at a glance Our VPN recommendations for Fire TV OS devices compared.
ExpressVPNSurfsharkNordVPNPrice $13 per month, $100 for the first year or $140 for the first two years combined (renewing at $117 annually for the one- and two-year plans)$15.45 per month, $48 for the first year or $54 for the first two years combined (renewing at $79 annually for the one- and two-year plans)$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 for the first two years combined (renewing at $140 annually for the one- and two-year plans)Server network 3,000-plus servers in 105 countries3,200-plus servers in 100 countries8,000-plus servers in 126 countriesSimultaneous connections 8Unlimited10Supported platforms Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, RoutersWindows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, RoutersWindows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, Routers
Show more
Why use a VPN for Fire TV Stick?
Amazon's Fire TV Stick is an affordable streaming device that offers access to a world of apps like Netflix, HBO Max, Disney Plus and Amazon Prime Video. However, geographical restrictions can limit the content available to watch in your region. Due to regional licensing agreements, streaming services can only offer a certain selection of titles in a specific country. For instance, if you're traveling to another country, your favorite TV shows and movies that you stream at home may not be available to watch in the country you're visiting.However, with a VPN, you can route your internet traffic through an encrypted server to hide your public IP address, which can make it look like you're in another city, state or country. Because most streaming sites typically rely on your IP address to determine your location (and therefore what content library to show), changing your IP address to make it appear as though you're in a different country using a VPN on your Fire TV Stick can help you unblock region-restricted content from all over the world that wouldn't normally be available in your location. A VPN can help you unblock worldwide content from streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, HBO Max, Amazon Prime Video and BBC iPlayer, in addition to accessing your home streaming libraries while you're out of the country. So you can enjoy The Waterfront on Netflix or The Accountant 2 on Amazon Prime Video from anywhere around the world. A VPN can even help you stream regional sports games, like NFL matches. Because the VPN encrypts your traffic, you can keep your Fire TV Stick streaming activity private from your ISP and potentially bypass bandwidth throttling, which might slow down your internet speeds.The best VPNs for Fire TV Stick all have user-friendly apps that you can download directly to your streaming device. However, one may work better for you than another, depending on your budget and the specific streaming content you want to access. Based on my hours of testing several VPN services in my latest evaluations, ExpressVPN retains its standing as the best Fire TV Stick VPN available in 2025, thanks in large part to its incredible ease of use and impressive unblocking capabilities across regions and streaming services. Read on to learn more about what to look for in the best VPNs for Fire TV Stick.
You can use a VPN with your Amazon Fire TV Stick to protect your privacy and get past streaming geoblocking. Getty Images/Amazon/CNET
Show more
How to choose the right VPN: Factors to consider in a Fire TV Stick VPN
PrivacyIf you want to keep your viewing activities on your Fire TV Stick hidden from your ISP, then you’ll want a VPN that delivers on privacy. Generally, you want to use a provider that offers AES-256 over OpenVPN, or ChaCha20 over Wireguard, to be sure that your internet traffic is being encrypted in a secure way. Be sure to check the VPN provider’s privacy policy to see what personal information may be collected, who it’s shared with and how it’s protected. Do some research into any privacy or security incidents that the VPN company may have dealt with in the past. Look into the provider’s no-logs policy and check for any third-party no-logs audits or real-life cases where the provider’s no-logs claims were put to the test. Also, you’ll want to make sure the VPN has a kill switch and DNS leak protection to ensure your traffic doesn’t leak unencrypted.  SpeedNothing’s worse than constant buffering when you’re trying to stream movies or shows with your Fire TV Stick. You’ll need a fast VPN to ensure a smooth streaming experience, especially if you’re streaming in 4K. Keep in mind that a VPN will slow your internet speeds, sometimes by 50% or more -- although, the fastest VPNs we tested slowed our base speeds by an average of only 20% or less. With a VPN that cuts your internet speeds by 20% or less, you’ll probably hardly notice the speed reduction, and your speeds should be sufficient for streaming on your Fire TV Stick (provided your base internet speeds are fast enough to begin with). Netflix recommends speeds of at least 5Mbps for high-definition streaming, whereas 4K content needs at least 15Mbps. But for a smooth and stable 4K streaming experience, your speeds should be closer to 50Mbps. Streaming and unblocking capabilitiesMost VPNs advertise that they’re great for streaming, but the reality is that there are only a few out there that are truly great streaming VPNs. It’s more than likely that you’ll be spending a lot of time streaming TV shows and movies using your Amazon Fire TV device, so you need a VPN that can keep up. This doesn’t just mean that it’s fast -- you’re also looking for a VPN that has plenty of servers around the world to give you more choice when it comes to unblocking streaming services around the world. You’ll also want to make sure that a VPN has the ability to unblock content on streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, HBO Max, Hulu, BBC iPlayer and Amazon Prime Video. The best way to do this is to test it out by taking advantage of a money-back guarantee. If the VPN works and unblocks the stream you want, great. If not, you can ask for a refund and try a different VPN provider.UsabilityJust because a VPN has a dedicated app for Amazon’s Fire TV Stick, doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s a good VPN for the device. You’ll want your VPN to be easy to use on your Fire TV Stick. The app should be similar to its desktop and mobile counterparts and should be just as simple to navigate, apply settings and connect to a server. It should also connect quickly and remain connected throughout your streaming sessions. CostIf you’re on a budget, cost will be an important consideration in choosing a VPN for your Fire TV Stick. VPN prices can vary from provider to provider, but you’ll typically save more money in the long run when you commit to a longer timeframe. You can expect to pay anywhere from $30 to $150 per year for an annual VPN subscription, and anywhere from $5 to $15 for a monthly VPN subscription, depending on which VPN you go with.
Screenshot by CNET How I tested VPNs on Fire TV Stick
Each of CNET's top VPNs offers a native VPN app for the Fire TV Stick, but a few of them stood out during my tests. In addition to evaluating the usability and features of the Fire TV Stick VPN apps, I prioritized other important factors like security, speed and unblocking capabilities of each VPN I tested. For my evaluation, I tested each VPN on a Fire TV Stick 4K Max. I opened each app on the Fire TV Stick and first tried to get a sense of its usability and available features. Is the app easy to navigate, and are the servers organized in a way that makes them easily accessible? Are the features useful, organized and simple to access? I then evaluated the overall performance of the app to see if the servers connected quickly, whether or not the connections were stable and how well the features performed. Finally, I tested how well each VPN performed in terms of unblocking geographically restricted content through various server locations and on various popular streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, HBO Max, Hulu and Amazon Prime Video. I tested to make sure the streaming services loaded up and started playing content quickly. I also noted whether the streaming experience was smooth and free of buffering, especially when streaming in 4K. The VPNs that consistently passed these tests earned a spot among my picks for the top Fire TV Stick VPNs.
NordVPN's Fire TV Stick app is easy to navigate and full of useful features. Screenshot by CNET
Show more
How do I install a VPN on Amazon's Fire TV Stick?
Installing a VPN on the Fire TV Stick is easy. You can either navigate to the magnifying glass search icon on your Fire TV home screen and use your remote or Fire TV app on your smartphone to type in the name of the VPN you want to download, or you can use the Alexa function on your Fire TV remote and say the name of the VPN. Then, click on the logo of your selected VPN and click on Get to initiate the download. Click on Open to launch the app and log into your account. Once you've logged in, your VPN will ask for your permission to set up a VPN connection. Click on OK to allow the VPN to create the connection. Once you've given your VPN permission to connect, you can start using the VPN on your Fire TV Stick.
Show more
Which Amazon Fire TV device is best for streaming with a VPN?
The $55 Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max (2023) features a new Ambience mode. Ty Pendlebury/CNETYou've got multiple Amazon Fire TV devices to pick from, and the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Max is our choice as the best overall. In our testing, we liked its Wi-Fi 6 support, which helps when streaming high-bandwidth 4K video content on your favorite apps, like Amazon Prime Video, Netflix or Disney Plus. We also appreciated the Fire TV Stick 4K Max's capability to stream in the latest video standards, like Dolby Vision HDR.The Amazon Fire TV Cube is great for home theater or smart home enthusiasts. We appreciate that it doubles as a smart speaker with Alexa onboard, so you can use voice search to look up movies and shows, adjust the volume, change TV inputs, stream music and more. There's even an HDMI input, so you can connect cable boxes, game consoles and other devices to your Fire TV Cube, which can be great if you're a home cinema buff with too many devices and not enough HDMI inputs on your TV.You can install a VPN directly on your smart TV if you're using a television that runs Amazon Fire TV OS, like the Amazon Fire TV Omni or Panasonic Z95A OLED.
Show more
CNET speed test data
Any VPN will slow down your internet speeds (sometimes by as much as 50%), but a fast VPN should only drop your download speeds by an average of about 25% or less. We run over 250 individual speed tests per provider when we test VPNs. NordVPN was the fastest VPN we assessed in our latest round of testing, with a 3% average download speed loss. Surfshark, Proton VPN, Mullvad and ExpressVPN all registered speed loss of less than 25%. Because streaming video on an Amazon Fire TV stick requires fast internet speeds -- especially for 4K or 1080p content -- you'll want a reliable VPN that minimally cuts your download speed. Here's how our top VPN recommendations stacked up: See which VPNs deliver the fastest -- or slowest -- internet speeds.
Provider Speed lossExpressVPN 18%Surfshark 21%NordVPN 3%Proton VPN 16%Mullvad 24%PIA 48%
Show more
Other VPNs we tested on the Fire TV Stick
IPVanishServers: 2,400-plusNumber of countries: 108Country/jurisdiction: USPlatforms: Windows, MacOS, Linux (CLI), Chrome OS, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Fire TV, Apple TVPrice: $13 per month, $40 for the first year (then $156 annually) or $52 for the first two years combined (then $312 every two years)I also tested IPVanish on the Fire TV Stick. Its app includes various settings and features to tool around with, but its high 44% average speed loss makes it unreliable for streaming video. The automatic app launch feature that allows users to select an app to launch automatically after a successful connection is a handy feature and worked well when set to auto-launch Netflix. But besides that, there wasn't much more to like about IPVanish's performance on the Fire TV Stick. Considering its unremarkable performance and ridiculously expensive renewal prices, I cannot enthusiastically recommend IPVanish as a viable VPN solution for the Fire TV Stick or for basically any other use case at this time. (Disclosure: IPVanish is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis). We'll continue to test this and other VPNs on the Fire TV Stick, so be sure to check back often. Read our IPVanish review.See at IPVanish
Show more
Amazon Fire TV Stick VPN FAQs
What VPN should I use for Fire Stick?
The best VPN to use on your Amazon Fire Stick, Fire TV Cube or Fire TV is ExpressVPN, thanks to its user-friendly app and excellent streaming service unblocking. Surfshark is a great choice for anyone on a budget and NordVPN's fast speeds and large server network make it a solid option for anyone needing optimal speeds or access to a vast selection of worldwide streaming content.
Show more
Is it worth having a VPN on Fire Stick?
Yes, it is worth having a VPN on your Amazon Fire TV device because you can unblock geographically restricted content, watch out-of-market sports games and keep your streaming activity private from your ISP and other online snoops. Some streaming services like Hulu and BBC iPlayer are only available in certain limited regions and other streaming services like Netflix have vastly different libraries in different countries. But you can use a VPN to change your virtual location to gain access to streaming content that's not normally available in your region. Additionally, your VPN may even be able to bypass ISP throttling and speed up your connection for a smoother streaming experience.
Show more
Do Amazon Fire Sticks block VPNs?
No, Amazon Fire TV devices do not block VPNs, and most major VPN providers offer Fire TV apps. A VPN is a privacy tool that is perfectly legal to use in the vast majority of the world. But some streaming services do attempt to prevent VPN use on their platforms, so if your VPN isn't working with the streaming service you want, you may need to try connecting to a different server or use a different VPN.
Show more
Can I use a free VPN on the Fire TV Stick?
We don't recommend using most free VPNs on the Fire TV Stick (or in most other situations) because free VPNs typically impose usage and bandwidth restrictions that make them virtually unusable for streaming purposes. They also often sell user information to advertisers and can sometimes even contain malware. Proton VPN is the exception to the rule, with an outstanding free plan and compelling paid tier. If you're on a budget, we'd recommend choosing Surfshark as your Fire TV Stick VPN as it's cheaper than a lot of the competition and works well on the streaming device.
Show more
Do VPNs work on all Fire TV Stick generations?
No, VPNs aren't compatible with the first generation of Fire TV Stick. VPNs work on second- and third-generation Fire TV Sticks as well as the Fire TV Stick 4K and 4K Max.
Show more
Can I use a VPN on Fire TV Cube?
Yes, Amazon's Fire TV Cube has the same interface as the Fire TV Stick. You can install and use a VPN on the Fire TV Cube the same way you would on a Fire TV Stick. The Fire TV Cube acts as an Alexa speaker that delivers audio and allows you to use voice commands to control your Fire TV interface without having to press and hold the Alexa button on your remote.
Show more
How much speed do I need for streaming with a VPN on Fire TV Stick?
For streaming in HD, you'll need at least 5Mbps, but for 4K streaming, you'll need a bare minimum of 25Mbps. For a smooth, buffer-free 4K streaming experience, you'll want closer to 50Mbps. And if you're running multiple 4K streams simultaneously on the same network, you should be getting at least 100Mbps. So if your network is slow to begin with, you'll want to go with the fastest VPN possible -- which is currently NordVPN based on our most recent speed tests.
Show more
What streaming services work best with VPNs on Fire TV Stick?
A good streaming VPN will usually be able to unblock various regional Netflix libraries on Fire TV Stick. Disney Plus and HBO Max usually work pretty reliably also. I've had issues with various VPNs running into trouble unblocking Hulu and Amazon Prime Video. I've found that ExpressVPN is the most reliable VPN for unblocking virtually any streaming service on Fire TV Stick.
Show more
Can I use a VPN to watch regional sports on my Fire TV Stick?
Streaming sports like MLB and the NFL is often a pain due to regional blackout restrictions blocking your access to the games you want to watch. However, a VPN can help you bypass blackouts and give you access to the live sports content you want to stream. If a game is blacked out in your area, you can use your VPN to connect to a server in a different city outside of the blackout area.
Show more
Will using a VPN on my Fire TV Stick void my warranty?
No. A VPN is a privacy tool that is perfectly legal to use in the vast majority of the world, and many VPN apps are available to download from Amazon's official app store on the Fire TV Stick.
Show more
How do I troubleshoot VPN connection problems on Fire TV?
If you're running into issues connecting to a VPN server on your Fire TV Stick, you can try connecting to another server, relaunch the VPN app or restart your Fire TV Stick. If you're still running into issues, it's best to get in contact with your VPN's support staff, who will be able to guide you through any additional troubleshooting steps. If you're able to connect to a server but unable to access the streaming content you want, you can try switching servers -- a change in IP address can often do the trick. If that doesn't work, you can get in touch with customer support to alert them to the issue. If nothing works, then it could be time to try a different VPN provider.
Show more
Can I use my VPN subscription on both my Fire TV Stick and other devices?
Yes, most VPNs allow you to connect with multiple devices at once. Some VPNs only allow for five simultaneous connections, some allow for eight to 10, and others, like Surfshark and PIA, allow you to connect an unlimited number of devices simultaneously. In addition to offering apps for Fire TV Stick, VPN providers typically offer apps for a wide array of devices, including Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS and Apple TV. A good VPN will also offer router compatibility, which you can use to cover your entire network and effectively bypass connection limitations if your VPN imposes them.
Show more
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.