Galaxy S25 Ultra Review: Greatest Phone Screen Ever, but Let's Not Talk About the AI - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
ai atlas
TechMobile Phones
Galaxy S25 Ultra Review: Greatest Phone Screen Ever, but Let's Not Talk About the AI
Samsung calls this phone Ultra because everything is supposed to be ultra. But the regular S25 and S25 Plus have a lot of its best specs and features and cost much less.
Article updated on February 5, 2025 at 5:00 AM PST
Our Experts
Written by
Patrick Holland
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr. Expertise Apple | iPhone | iOS | Android | Samsung | Sony | Google | Motorola | Interviews | Coffee equipment | Cats Credentials Patrick's play The Cowboy is included in the Best American Short Plays 2011-12 anthology. He co-wrote and starred in the short film Baden Krunk that won the Best Wisconsin Short Film award at the Milwaukee Short Film Festival.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
9.2/ 10
SCORE Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
$1,280 at Amazon $1,300 at Samsung$950 at Walmart
Pros
Best screen on any phone
Versatile cameras
Most powerful phone I've tested
Good battery life
Cons
$1,300 price
Design is almost too minimal
AI features are hit-or-miss
S25/S25 Plus have similar features and cost less
Table of Contents
Galaxy S25 Ultra Review: Greatest Phone Screen Ever, but Let's Not Talk About the AI
Galaxy S25 Ultra: Should you buy it?
S25 Ultra software and Galaxy AI
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra design
Galaxy S25 Ultra: New ultrawide camera, who dis?
Galaxy S25 Ultra video recording, Log support
S25 Ultra battery and performance
Geekbench v.6.0
3DMark Wild Life Extreme
3DMark Wild Life Extreme -- frame rate
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: Final thoughts
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus, Samsung Galaxy S25, Google Pixel 9 Pro XL, OnePlus 13
How we test phones
Editors' note: Samsung has also unveiled the Galaxy S25 and S25 Plus, which start at $800 and $1,000, respectively. Read our in-depth review. With the new Galaxy S25 Ultra in my hand, I stand in the lobby of the LinkedIn building in San Francisco, which happens to be a POPOS: a privately owned public open space. It's a gorgeous hall, with long running panels of blonde wood on the ceiling and back wall. I use Samsung's new ultrawide camera to capture a dramatic photo of the lobby, and I'm pleased with how it turns out. The ultrawide's lens makes the space's long lines look like they go on for eternity, and I can even make out details in the wood grain. To keep the positive vibes flowing, I decide to add the photo to the S25 Ultra's new Gemini AI assistant, and test the "Talk Live about this" feature. That's when things go sideways.With the confidence of a 6-year-old telling a lie, Gemini explains that my photo is of the Miner Auditorium at the de Young Museum. Fun fact: The de Young Museum doesn't have a Miner Auditorium. Even more fun fact: There's a Miner Auditorium at SFJazz, but my photo was taken in LinkedIn's lobby. To quote Charlie Brown, "Good grief!"This is our AI future.
Here's an ultrawide image I took with the Galaxy S25 Ultra indoors in a public space in the LinkedIn building in San Francisco. Patrick Holland/CNETAt a time when companies push AI as the main appeal of their products, Samsung launches the $1,300 Galaxy S25 Ultra and touts the hell out of its AI features, the best of which are interesting and the worst of which, well, see above. Luckily, Samsung gets a lot of other things right on the S25 Ultra, which has a new processor, high-resolution ultrawide camera, and some sweet pro video tools that rival the iPhone 16 Pro. Samsung wisely kept all the best parts of last year's Galaxy S24 Ultra (basically the entire phone) but some of its worst parts, too, like the $1,300 price tag.Notably, the S25 Ultra marks another step away from the Galaxy Note influenced design that Samsung has embraced since the S22 Ultra. Samsung's refinements to the Galaxy S25 Ultra feel a bit like Pete Davidson getting all his tattoos removed: I miss those chaotic, wild days from them both a few years ago. Where's the Samsung that actually printed "Space Zoom 100x" on the S20 Ultra's camera bump? Or the Samsung that made a nearly three-minute video explaining how black the Phantom Black Galaxy S21 Ultra was?The result is that the S25 Ultra is lighter and more comfortable to hold, but also about as exciting to look at as someone wearing a pair of Dockers and a polo shirt. The Galaxy S25 Ultra is undoubtedly a wonderful phone -- its performance is jaw-dropping and it offers the most versatile phone camera you can find today. But before you buy one, consider why you'd want to.Galaxy S25 Ultra: Should you buy it?
James Martin/CNETIf you want to get the S25 Ultra for its AI features, don't. While Samsung and Google's AI does offer you squint-your-eyes glimpses at what could be, they aren't the reason you buy an Ultra – at least this year.The Galaxy S25 Ultra's appeal is muddied by its $1,300, £1,249 and AU$2,149 price. The regular Galaxy S25 has the same functionality, power and longevity, and it costs $500 less. Want a bigger screen? Consider the Galaxy S25 Plus. For the majority of people, the regular Galaxy S25 and S25 Plus will be a better fit.The reason to get the Ultra over its S25 siblings is its screen, which is truly the best I've seen on any phone, and the cameras, which are a step above what the S25 and S25 Plus have. Added video features like ability to record in Log format gets the Ultra as close as it's ever been to the iPhone in terms of professional video capture.But $1,300 is a lot, and this phone doesn't even fold in half.If you have a Galaxy S22 Ultra or older, the S25 Ultra will seem like a significant upgrade. It's harder to make that case for S23 Ultra owners, who, unless their phone's battery is ailing or they can score an incredible discount, should otherwise sit this one out. And for you S24 Ultra owners, you don't need this phone. Save your money and treat yourself to a nice steak dinner and a movie.S25 Ultra software and Galaxy AI
James Martin/CNETWhen I wake the phone, I'm greeted with the new Now Bar at the bottom of the lock screen. I like the carousel interface, which shows a shortcut to my Now Brief and information from other background apps like directions from Google Maps or the live score of an NBA game. But unlike the iPhone and its Live Activities, the Now Bar is limited and can't track a rideshare.Now Brief is a new interface/widget that lives on the home screen and is all about you. It uses data from your phone including your calendar, email and photos, as well as connected devices like a Galaxy Watch, to give you a snapshot at the start of your day or as your day progresses. In theory, it should get to know you better over time, but after two weeks of testing, it largely just shows me the weather, my calendar, photos I took and a random news story which more often than not is tied to politics. I don't want to read about Mike Lindell when I first wake up – or ever, really.But it's the Ultra's cross-app functionality through Gemini that has the most potential. I can ask Gemini in a single prompt to search for upcoming Air Jordan 1 sneaker drops and add them to a note, and it works. I had Gemini search my email for a list of upcoming soccer practices and add each practice to my calendar. Again, no problemo.All three Galaxy S25 models have the same AI features. This is one area where Samsung could have helped the Ultra stand out from its siblings by having a unique AI feature that the others don't. Side note: You can do a lot of this on other Android phones by just using Gemini and Google apps. But the issue, like with a lot of AI, is when things go haywire.I asked Gemini to find a GIF of Homer Simpson walking backward into bushes and send it to a friend. It found a link to the GIF online and sent it to my friend, but it forgot to include the actual link. So my friend received a message that read, "Here is a link to a GIF online of Homer Simpson walking back into bushes."Beyond reliability, another obstacle to this hybrid online/on-device assistant is us. We're used to the one-step-at-a-time reality that our phones have had for nearly two decades. So having a digital assistant that's capable of more complex queries is going to take some rewiring in our brains before we can fully take advantage of it. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra design
The S Pen is back, but without Bluetooth connectivity. James Martin/CNETThe S25 Ultra now has flat sides, which makes me feel more confident that it won't slip out of my hand. Samsung reduced the overall mass compared to previous versions, too. The phone is 15 grams lighter than the S24 Ultra, which makes the S25 Ultra seem less like I'm carrying a tech-infused brick around with me.Samsung increased the screen real estate an extra tenth of an inch to 6.9 inches, thanks to thinner bezels. This, along with an antireflective coating, make the S25 Ultra's screen my favorite on any phone. Content looks immersive even with something as mundane as a news or social feed. Using it outdoors to take a picture is fantastic because it's bright, and the lack of glare doesn't interfere with seeing what the photos I'm taking are going to look like, even in direct sunlight.The S Pen no longer has Bluetooth connectivity, and as a consequence doesn't have the Air Actions found on previous S Pens for the Ultra and Note series. If you don't know what Air Actions are, you're not alone, as apparently less than 1% of Ultra owners ever used them. The lack of Bluetooth means that the S Pen cannot be used as a remote camera shutter either. Galaxy S25 Ultra: New ultrawide camera, who dis?
James Martin/CNETThe Galaxy S25 Ultra has four lenses on the back: a wide, an ultrawide, a 3X telephoto and a 5X telephoto. On the front is a 12-megapixel selfie camera. All of the cameras, except the ultrawide, are the same as what the S24 Ultra has and take just as amazing photos.I want to focus on what's new, and at the top of that list is the S25 Ultra's 50-megapixel ultrawide camera. It's simply amazing for a phone. The lens hits that sweet spot between distorting things in-frame enough to look dramatic without giving photos that warped-edge fisheye look. The higher resolution sensor captures a lot of detail. The dynamic range is good, but still a step down from the 200-megapixel main camera.Here are a few of my favorite ultrawide snaps:
Enlarge Image
I took this at the tail end of blue hour, and am impressed how the ultrawide camera handled the shadows in this dim scene (you can distinguish the tree from the dark building on the left). Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
This is a tricky scene for any phone camera to handle. But the S25 Ultra does a good job balancing the exposure, people moving and shifting and the various textures inside this cafe. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
Because the ultrawide camera gets a higher resolution sensor, macro photos, like of this succulent plant, have even more detail and textures. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
This photo was taken with the S25 Ultra's ultrawide camera. Patrick Holland/CNETTake a look at the photo below of Peebles the cat that I took with the ultrawide. Despite Peebles dashing to his window bed, the phone caught a ton of detail in his fur and whiskers. This image has some challenging lighting, with sunshine pouring through the window at the left into an otherwise dark room. Notice the image noise in the shadows on the right side. Perfect? No, but the detail and lens dramatic distortion make up for it.
Enlarge Image
The S25 Ultra's ultrawide gives Peebles the cat a dramatic look as he moves to peer out the window. Patrick Holland/CNETBelow is an image I took with the ultrawide of a water sculpture early in the morning. The flowing water looks like glass contrasted against the stone. This image is over-sharpened, but I like how the sun flare looks in the top right corner.
Enlarge Image
While the ultrawide camera isn't clinically perfect (and is still a step down compared to the main camera) it can produce stunning shots like this of water flowing down the stone steps. Patrick Holland/CNETThe S25 Ultra's ultrawide doubles as a macro lens, allowing it to get close to a subject while keeping things in focus – it even crops the image's frame to match that of the main camera. In the photo below of a Godzilla toy on a window sill, the monster's plastic texture shows up well. Also the S25 Ultra balanced exposing the image of Godzilla without blowing out the highlights of the sky and cityscape in the window.
Enlarge Image
Macro photography gets a nice boost, thanks to that new 50-megapixel sensor. Patrick Holland/CNETGalaxy S25 Ultra video recording, Log support
On the left is the S25 Ultra and its new zoom controls for video. On the right is the S24 Ultra and its old zoom dial for video recording. Patrick Holland/CNETSamsung nailed the Galaxy S25 Ultra's video features. There's a new zoom slider built for video recording, which makes doing a long steady zoom feel more controlled than the previous zoom dial.There's the Audio Eraser tool that helps you minimize background noise, like music or wind, and makes your subject's voice stand out more. I tried this tool at several different places and was impressed with the results every time. But don't get me wrong, this won't remove all background noises. I mean, it can, but that usually results in the subject's voice sounding odd and digitized.Samsung improved night time video capture on the S25 Ultra, and it's noticeable, especially compared to the S24 Ultra. Though phone video recorded in low-light on any phone is still OK at best.The S25 Ultra can record video in Log format – this is aimed at filmmakers and creative types, and most people will likely skip trying it out. Log video looks flat and desaturated but it retains more image information for highlights and shadows, allowing for greater flexibility to edit colors and retain dynamic range after recording.S25 Ultra battery and performance
The Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra in a magnetic charging stand with a Galaxy Watch Ultra. Celso Bulgatti/CNETAt the heart of the Galaxy S25 Ultra is a custom version of the Snapdragon 8 Elite chip and 12GB of RAM. In everyday use, animations look smooth, video games look incredible and AI runs quickly. Samsung actually made improvements to its photo AI tools by having them run on-device, instead of in the cloud and the increased speed is definitely noticeable.But in terms of absolute power, the S25 Ultra, its custom chip and its larger cooling system lead to some absolutely wild performance. In the Geekbench 6 benchmark test for the CPU, the S25 Ultra scored higher than any phone we've ever tested, including the OnePlus 13 and iPhone 16 Pro. The same is true when it comes to the 3DMark Wild Life Extreme benchmark test for graphics.Geekbench v.6.0
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
3,053 9,707Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra
2,202 6,721OnePlus 13
3,091 9,362Apple iPhone 16 Pro
3,507 8,750
Single-core
Multicore
Note: Longer bars indicate better performance
3DMark Wild Life Extreme
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
6,950Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra
4,415OnePlus 13
6,762Apple iPhone 16 Pro
4,672
Note: Longer bars indicate better performance
3DMark Wild Life Extreme -- frame rate
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
41.62Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra
26.4OnePlus 13
40.5Apple iPhone 16 Pro
28
Note: Longer bars indicate better performance
Keep in mind, you won't take advantage of all of this power right now. But as more AI features roll out or as new versions of OneUI/Android are released, this phone should be able to handle anything you can throw at it for years.So with a bigger screen, more AI and a faster processor, you might wonder how the Ultra's 5,000-mAh battery holds up. Over the two weeks I had the phone, it reliably made it through a full day on a single charge – often with 30% of its charge left. There were even a few days where the phone lasted well into a second day before needing to be topped off. I am still running CNET's battery tests and will update this review with the results.
The Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra inside of a magnetic case, with a wallet accessory attached. Celso Bulgatti/CNETIn terms of charging, the Galaxy S25 Ultra supports 45W wired charging (wall plug not included in the box) and 15W wireless charging, the same as the Qi2 standard. But the phone lacks Qi2's built-in magnetic profile required to use a slew of magnetic accessories -- kind of.Samsung is selling cases for the Ultra that have magnets built into them. So you can add a magnetic wallet to the back. Or have the Ultra charging on a magnetic power stand (if only the Ultra had the iPhone's Standby Mode).Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: Final thoughts
James Martin/CNETThe Ultra in the phone's name means that the S25 Ultra is supposed to be ultra at everything in terms of specs: Snapdragon 8 Elite chip, 12GB of RAM, 5,000-mAh battery, two telephoto cameras, a stylus and, the true star of the phone, that screen. But the same can be said of last year's S24 Ultra, and a lot of what I just listed can be found on the regular S25 and S25 Plus.If you want the best screen you can find on any phone, get the S25 Ultra. If you want the most versatile phone cameras, get the S25 Ultra. If you want a stylus, get the S25 Ultra. But if your needs scale back on any of those fronts, the more affordable S25 options, or even last year's S24 Ultra, may be worth considering.All that to say, make sure you need an Ultra before you buy one, because Samsung has made its other phones just as good as the S25 Ultra in pretty much every other way.Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus, Samsung Galaxy S25, Google Pixel 9 Pro XL, OnePlus 13
Samsung Galaxy S25 UltraSamsung Galaxy S25 PlusSamsung Galaxy S25Google Pixel 9 Pro XLOnePlus 13 Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.8-inch AMOLED; 3,120x1,440 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.7-inch AMOLED; 3,120x1,440 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.2-inch AMOLED; 2,340x1,080 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.8-inch LTPO OLED; 2,992x1,344 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.82-inch AMOLED; 3,168x1,440 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh ratePixel density 501 ppi509 ppi416 ppi486 ppi510 ppiDimensions (inches) 6.41 x 3.06 x 0.32 in.6.24 x 2.98 x 0.29 in.5.78 x 2.78 x 0.28 in.6.4 x 3 x 0.3 in.6.41x3.01x0.33 in. (arctic dawn/black eclipse); 6.41x3.01x0.35 in. (midnight ocean)Dimensions (millimeters) 162.8 x 77.6 x 8.2 mm158.4 x 75.8 x 7.3 mm146.9 x 70.5 x 7.2 mm162.8 x 76.6 x 8.5 mm162.9x76.5x8.5mm (arctic dawn/black eclipse); 162.9x76.5x8.9mm (midnight ocean)Weight (grams, ounces) 218 g (7.69 oz.)190 g (6.70 oz.)162 g (5.71 oz.)221 g (7.8 oz.)213g (7.51 oz.) -- arctic dawn/black eclipse; 210g (7.4 oz.) -- midnight oceanMobile software Android 15Android 15Android 15Android 14Android 15Camera 200-megapixel (wide), 50-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto), 50-megapixel (5x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto)50 megapixel (wide), 50 megapixel (3x telephoto), 50 megapixel (ultrawide)Front-facing camera 12-megapixel 12-megapixel 12-megapixel 42-megapixel32 megapixelVideo capture 8K8K8K4K8KProcessor Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyQualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyQualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyGoogle Tensor G4Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 EliteRAM + storage 12GB RAM + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB12GB RAM + 256GB, 512GB12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB16GB + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB12GB + 256GB; 16GB + 512GBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneNoBattery 5,000 mAh4,900 mAh4,000 mAh5,060 mAh6,000 mAhFingerprint sensor Under displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displayConnector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Titanium frame, 2,600-nit peak brightness; 7 years of OS and security updates; 5G (mmWave); IP68 water and dust resistance; wireless PowerShare to charge other devices; integrated S Pen; UWB for finding other devices; 45W wired charging (charger not included); Galaxy AI; Wi-Fi 7; Gorilla Glass Armor cover glass; ultrawideband2,600-nit peak brightness; 7 years of OS and security updates; 5G (mmWave); IP68 water and dust resistance; wireless PowerShare to charge other devices; 25W wired charging (charger not included); Galaxy AI; Wi-Fi 7; ultrawideband2,600-nit peak brightness; 7 years of OS and security updates; 5G (mmWave); IP68 water and dust resistance; wireless PowerShare to charge other devices; 25W wired charging (charger not included); Galaxy AI; Wi-Fi 7Satellite SOS; 7 years of OS, security and Pixel feature drops; IP68 dust and water resistance; Video Boost with 8K Upscaling; Macro Focus on ultrawide; Gorilla Glass Victus 2 cover glass; 3,000-nit peak brightness; 45W fast charging (charger not included); 15W wireless charging with Google Pixel Stand (second gen); 12W wireless Qi-charging; Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 7; NFC; Bluetooth 5.3; dual-SIM (eSIM + nano SIM); Add Me; Best Take; Magic Eraser; Magic Editor80W SuperVooc wired charging, 50W AirVooc wireless charging, alert slider, Bluetooth 5.4, NFC, IP68 and IP69 certified, Ceramic Guard, Aqua Touch 2.0, 4 years of software updates, 6 years of security updates, LTPO 4.1 displayUS price starts at $1,300 (256GB)$1,000 (256GB)$800 (128GB)$1,099 (128GB)$900 (12GB + 256GB); $1,000 (16GB + 512GB)UK price starts at £1,249 (256GB)£999 (256GB)£799 (128GB)£1,099 (128GB)£899 (12GB + 256GB); £999 (16GB + 512GB)Australia price starts at AU$2,149 (256GB)AU$1,699 (256GB)AU$1,399 (256GB)AU$1,699 (128GB)N/A
How we test phonesEvery phone tested by CNET's reviews team was actually used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP-rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
PATRICK HOLLAND
Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.