Ebola outbreak in the DRC: why is it so deadly?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
23 September 2025
Ebola outbreak in the DRC: why is it so deadly?
‘Spillover event’ in which an animal infected humans is likely to be the cause of 47 confirmed cases and 25 deaths.
By
Katie Kavanagh
Katie Kavanagh
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
People register to receive the Ebola vaccine following an outbreak in Bulape in the central Democratic Republic of the Congo. Credit: Joel Lumbala/WHO via Xinhua/Alamy
An outbreak of Ebola has been reported in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), with 47 confirmed cases, including 25 deaths, as of yesterday, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). There are also a probable 10 additional cases and deaths, the WHO says.On 4 September, the DRC’s Ministry of Health confirmed that the outbreak was caused by the Zaire ebolavirus, the most dangerous and common of Ebola virus strains, which was also responsible for the 2014–16 outbreak in West Africa. The WHO has issued a call for US$21 million to support the response of the DRC’s government. The agency says that priorities are sending health workers to affected communities, identifying cases as early as possible, increasing community engagement, providing treatment and reducing transmission.A viral leapAlthough the precise source of the outbreak is not known, researchers say that it probably arose from a spillover event, in which the virus transfers from an infected animal, such as a bat, to humans. “It’s not identical to previous strains that have been identified, which strongly suggests that it’s a new spillover event,” says epidemiologist Peter Horby of the Pandemic Sciences Institute at the University of Oxford, UK. The outbreak is currently confined to four regions of Kasai province: Bulape, Mweka, Mushenge and Kakenge. These areas are remote and isolated, making it challenging for responders to reach them, Horby says. “I think the big problem is that the patients — because it’s an isolated area and it’s very rural — are presenting very late, with quite advanced disease and have very restricted health-care systems, so the mortality rate is very high,” he adds. Although this makes tackling the outbreak difficult, “the remoteness may shield the outbreak [from] other settings”, says Henry Kyobe Bosa, who leads the Ebola and COVID-19 response for Uganda’s Ministry of Health.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03101-9
Reprints and permissions
Subjects
Vaccines
Ebola virus
Government
Latest on:
Vaccines
Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
News 20 SEP 25
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
News 17 SEP 25
Childhood vaccines up for review in the US: what’s at stake
News 12 SEP 25
Ebola virus
Molecular mechanism of de novo replication by the Ebola virus polymerase
Article 12 SEP 23
Don’t wait for an Ebola outbreak to vaccinate people against it
World View 24 JAN 23
Even after COVID, the world’s vaccine strategy is failing
World View 13 DEC 22
Government
Harvard vs Trump: millions in grant money begin trickling back to scientists
News 19 SEP 25
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
News 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Research specialist in integrated photonics
Seeking a Research Specialist in integrated photonics to support experiments, labs, training, and collaboration on cutting-edge research projects.
Gothenburg (Stad), Västra Götaland (SE)
Chalmers University of Technology - MC2
FAFU Global Faculty Recruitment
FAFU welcomes applicants of all nationalities to apply for faculty positions at any rank (full professor, associate professor, assistant professor).
Fuzhou, Fujian (CN)
Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University
Global Talent Recruitment-Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Leading Talent, Excellent Young Scholars (Overseas), Young Top Talents, Postdoctoral Fellow
Xi'an, Shaanxi (CN)
Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Tenure-track Positions at The HIT Center for Life Sciences, China
Harbin, Heilongjiang (CN)
The HIT Center for Life Sciences (HCLS)
Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China
School of Sustainable Energy and Resources at Nanjing University
Subjects
Vaccines
Ebola virus
Government
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited