KNOP Stock Price Quote | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Stocks
KNOT Offshore Partners LP KNOT Offshore Partners LP KNOP
Morningstar Rating
Unlock
Stock XNYS
Rating as of Sep 25, 2025
Download PDF
More Actions
Summary
Chart
News
Price vs Fair Value
Sustainability
Trailing Returns
Key Metrics
Financials
Valuation
Dividends
Ownership
Executive
$9.44 +0.11
(1.18%)
View Full Chart
As of Sep 25, 2025, 8:00:08 PM Delayed Price Closed
About Quantitative Ratings
Morningstar Quantitative Ratings for Stocks are generated using an algorithm that compares companies that are
not under analyst coverage to peer companies that do receive analyst-driven ratings. Companies with quantitative
ratings are not formally covered by a Morningstar analyst, but are statistically matched to analyst-rated
companies, allowing our models to calculate a quantitative moat, fair value, and uncertainty rating.
Price vs Fair Value
View History
KNOP is trading at a 54% premium.
Price
$9.44
Sep 25, 2025
Fair Value
$98.36
Sep 20, 2025
Uncertainty
High
1-Star Price $91.485-Star Price $7.12Economic Moat CmrCapital Allocation —
News
View All
KNOT Offshore Partners LP Earnings Release—Interim Results for the Period Ended June 30, 2025
Business Wire Sep 25, 2025, 8:15:00 PM
KNOT Offshore Partners LP Announces 2nd Quarter 2025 Earnings Results Conference Call
Business Wire Aug 18, 2025, 8:15:00 PM
KNOT Offshore Partners LP Provides Strategic and Operational Update:
Business Wire Jul 2, 2025, 1:00:00 PM
Trading Information
Previous Close Price $9.33 Day Range $9.27–9.48
52-Week Range $5.28–9.50
Bid/Ask $9.51
/
$9.69 Shares Outstanding 34.94M Market Cap $329.81M Volume/Avg 222,972
/
67,414
Key Statistics
Price/Earnings (Normalized) 12.29Price/Sales 1.11Dividend Yield (Trailing) 1.11%Dividend Yield (Forward) 1.11%Total Yield 1.10%
Company Profile
KNOT Offshore Partners LP owns, operates, and shuttles tankers under long-term charters in the North Sea and Brazil. The company provides crude oil loading, transportation, and storage services under time charters and bareboat charters. The Partnership is formed for acquiring ownership interests in over four shuttle tankers owned by Knutsen NYK Offshore Tankers AS (KNOT). It operates through the shuttle tanker market segment.
Show More
Sector EnergyIndustry Oil & Gas MidstreamStock Style Box Small CoreTotal Number of Employees 874Website https://www.knotoffshorepartners.com
Valuation
View More
Metric
KNOP
Price/Earnings (Normalized) 12.29Price/Book Value 0.62Price/Sales 1.11Price/Cash Flow 2.34
Price/Earnings
KNOP
Financial Strength
Metric
KNOP
Quick Ratio 0.24Current Ratio 0.34Interest Coverage 1.19
Quick Ratio
KNOP
Profitability
Metric
KNOP
Return on Assets (Normalized) 2.59%Return on Equity (Normalized) 7.85%Return on Invested Capital (Normalized) 6.23%
Return on Assets
KNOP
Oil & Gas Midstream Industry Comparables
Screen With Investor
1-Day Chart
Name
Price
Morningstar Rating for Stocks
Capital Allocation
Economic Moat
Market Cap
Enbridge Inc
ENB
XrvmtppnJjwbwz$108B Williams Companies Inc
WMB
PdqvvbpsCjsfgf$77B Enterprise Products Partners LP
EPD
PnrvgbmllvDhl$68B Kinder Morgan Inc Class P
KMI
HgnjbmyqPkvznl$62B Energy Transfer LP
ET
KdvbVply$60B TC Energy Corp
TRP
CwglcbhHlmrgt$56B MPLX LP Partnership Units
MPLX
LpgmrvldpWnmll$52B Cheniere Energy Inc
LNG
JzgwlddPbqj$52B ONEOK Inc
OKE
JqpkbdknQgylqv$46B Venture Global Inc Ordinary Shares - Class A
VG
WyfdhdprQxrfz$36B
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility