PBS “Viewers Like Me” Social Sweepstakes Official Rules | PBS
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
PBS “Viewers Like Me” Social Sweepstakes Official Rules
Published on June 02, 2025
by
PBS
Share
Share your love for PBS and you can win "Viewers Like Me" merchandise!1) Create a video telling us how much PBS means to you,2) follow @PBS on Instagram,3) post your video on Instagram with the hashtag #ViewersLikeMeSweepstakes in the copy. See official rules below.
NO PURCHASE OR PAYMENT NECESSARY. A PURCHASE OR PAYMENT OF ANY KIND WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. 1. EligibilityPBS “Viewers Like Me” Social Sweepstakes (the “Sweepstakes”) is open to legal residents of the 50 United States (and the District of Columbia) 18 years age or older at the time of entry. Void where prohibited by law. Employees, and agents, representatives, officers, directors, shareholders of Public Broadcasting Service, Realtime Media, LLC and their immediate families (spouse and parents, children and siblings, and their respective spouses regardless of where they live) and individuals living in the same households, whether related or not are not eligible to enter or win a prize. To enter the Sweepstakes or to be eligible to receive the prize, you must fully comply with the Official Rules. By participating you represent and warrant that you agree to be bound by these Official Rules and the decisions of the Sponsor, whose decisions shall be binding and final in all respects relating to this Sweepstakes. The Sweepstakes is governed by these Official Rules and is subject to all applicable federal, state, and local laws. 2. Sponsor and Administrator Sponsor: Public Broadcasting Service, 1225 S. Clark Street, Arlington, VA 22202.Administrator: Realtime Media, LLC, 1001 Conshohocken State Road, Suite 2-100, Conshohocken, PA 19428. 3. Sweepstakes Entry Period The Sweepstakes begins on June 2, 2025 at 12:00AM Eastern Time (“ET”) and ends on September 5, 2025 at 11:59PM ET (the “Sweepstakes Entry Period”). Administrator’s computer is the official timekeeping device for the Sweepstakes. 4. How to EnterFollow these steps: 1) Create a video showing your “Viewers Like Me” story (the “Submission”); 2) follow @PBS on Instagram; and 3) upload the Submission on Instagram with the hashtags #ViewersLikeMeSweepstakes in the post.  To enter you must have your Instagram profile settings as PUBLIC (not protected) to enter your Submission. If you do not already have an Instagram account, download the free Instagram application and create an account as instructed. Getting an Instagram account is free. Submission must comply with Instagram’s Terms of Use, which can be found at https://help.instagram.com/581066165581870. Use of multiple Instagram accounts to enter by the same individual is prohibited and may result in disqualification. Submissions will be deemed to have been submitted by the authorized account holder of the Instagram account from which the Submission is uploaded at the time of the entry, as identified by the primary email address associated with that account. Submissions will not be acknowledged or returned. You are not permitted to share the same Instagram account with another entrant.  Limit of one (1) entry per person per Instagram account throughout the entire Sweepstakes Entry Period. Use of any automated system to enter is prohibited and will result in disqualification. Sponsor is not responsible for lost, late, incomplete, invalid, unintelligible or misdirected entries all of which will be ineligible to win a prize. 5. Submission RequirementsThe Submission must comply with the following requirements: (i) the Submission may not feature any person other than entrant unless they have consent of the other person / people that are included; (ii) other than the Sponsor, its products, brands and/or logos, the Submission may not show, contain, mention, depict, refer or otherwise allude to the name, logo or product of any other retailer, manufacturer, brand, product, store, place of business, person, company or character in such a way or manner as to imply an affiliation with, or endorsement of, the Sponsor, its products, brands and/or this Sweepstakes; (iii) the Submission must be entrant’s own original work (or the entrant must have the rights from the photographer or videographer to make the submission), created solely by entrant and not created professionally; must not have won any award; (iv) the Submission may not contain, mention, refer or otherwise allude to any material that is violent, lewd, obscene, sexually explicit, pornographic, disparaging, defamatory, libelous, racially or morally offensive or otherwise contain inappropriate content or objectionable material; (v) the Submission cannot promote alcohol, illegal drugs or tobacco, firearms/weapons (or the use of any of the foregoing), any activities that may appear unsafe or dangerous, or any political agenda or message; (vi) the Submission cannot in any manner defame, misrepresent, contain disparaging remarks or reflect negatively about Sponsor, its products, or other people, products or companies or their products, or in any way reflect negatively upon such parties or explicitly or implicitly communicate messages or images inconsistent with the positive images and/or goodwill with which Sponsor wishes to be associated, as determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion; (vii) the Submission cannot contain any personal identification, such as personal names, email addresses or street addresses, without express permission of Sponsor; (viii) the Submission cannot itself be in violation of any law; and (ix) the Submission must otherwise be in compliance with these Official Rules. Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to disqualify any Submission that Sponsor believes, in its sole discretion, does not comply with or is in violation of these Official Rules or that otherwise contains prohibited or inappropriate content. 6. Grant of RightsBy submitting the Submission, the entrant represents and warrants that he/she has all right, title and interest necessary to grant the Sponsor the worldwide, irrevocable and unrestricted right and license to adapt, publish, use, edit, create derivative works and/or modify such Submission in any way and post the Submission on the internet or use the Submission in any other way and agrees to indemnify and hold Sponsor harmless from any claims to the contrary. 7. Representations and Warranties/IndemnificationEach person who enters this Sweepstakes represents and warrants as follows: (i) entrant has obtained any and all necessary permissions required to submit the Submission and for Sponsor’s right to use the Submission for any purpose, including the consent of any identifiable third person(s) appearing in the Submission, and entrant can and will make written copies of such permissions available to Sponsor upon request; (ii) the Submission is owned by entrant; (iii) the Submission is wholly original with entrant and, as of the date of submission, the Submission is not the subject of any actual or threatened litigation or claim; (iv) the Submission does not and will not violate or infringe upon the intellectual property rights or other rights of any other person or entity, including, but not limited to, rights of privacy and publicity; and (v) the Submission does not and will not violate any applicable laws, and is not and will not be considered defamatory or libelous. Each entrant hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Sponsor, Administrator and their subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, partners, representatives, agents, successors, assigns, employees, officers and directors harmless from and against any and all third party claims, actions or proceedings of any kind and from any and all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses relating to or arising out of any breach or alleged breach of any of the warranties, representations or agreements of entrant hereunder. 8. Sweepstakes Winner Selection On or about the following dates: : 6/6/25, 6/13/25, 6/20/25, 6/27/25, 7/4/24, 7/11/25, 7/18/25, 7/25/25, 8/1/25, 8/8/25, 8/15/25, 8/22/25, 8/29/25, 9/5/25 Administrator will select one winner on each date from random drawing from among all valid entries received up the time of the drawing. Odds of winning depend on the number of eligible entries received up to the time of the drawing. POTENTIAL WINNERS WILL BE NOTIFIED BY DIRECT MESSAGE ON INSTAGRAM FROM @PBS AND WILL BE REQUIRED TO RESPOND WITHIN 48 HOURS OF NOTIFICATION VIA EMAIL. Potential winners must follow the initial prize claim instructions and any subsequent claim instructions, or the prize will be forfeited in its entirety. It is recommended that you confirm your Instagram notification settings are turned on. Sponsor’s decisions as to the administration and operation of the Sweepstakes and the selection of the potential winner is final and binding in all matters related to the Sweepstakes. Failure to respond to an initial notification within 48 hours will result in disqualification. Sponsor’s decision as to the administration and operation of the Sweepstakes and the selection of the potential winner is final and binding in all matters related to the Sweepstakes. Limit of one (1) prize per person for the Sweepstakes.  9. Verification of Potential Sweepstakes WinnersPOTENTIAL SWEEPSTAKES WINNERS ARE SUBJECT TO VERIFICATION BY SPONSOR AND ADMINISTRATOR WHOSE DECISIONS ARE FINAL AND BINDING IN ALL MATTERS RELATED TO THE SWEEPSTAKES. Potential winners must continue to comply with all terms and conditions of these Official Rules and winning is contingent upon fulfilling all requirements. If a potential winner of any prize cannot be contacted, fails to sign and return the affidavit of eligibility and liability/publicity release within the required time period, or if the prize or prize notification is returned as undeliverable, potential winner forfeits prize. In the event that a potential winner is disqualified for any reason, Sponsor may award the prize to an alternate winner.  10. Weekly Grand PrizesFourteen (14) weekly grand prizes will be awarded. Each weekly grand prize winner will receive a PBS branded sweat suit. Sponsor will attempt to honor winner’s requested size but does not guarantee requested size will be available. Approximate retail value of each weekly grand prize is $50.  Prizes will be delivered approximately 21 days after winner finalization. Sponsor and Administrator are not responsible for lost or damaged prize delivery. Prize is non-transferable. No substitution, cash redemption, assignment or transfer of prize permitted, except by Sponsor, who reserves the right in its sole discretion to substitute a prize with another prize of greater or equal value. All federal, state and local taxes, if any, related to a prize are the responsibility of the individual winner. Any and all guarantees and warranties are subject to the manufacturers or service provider’s terms and conditions, and the winner agrees to look solely to such entity for any such warranty or guarantee claim. Approximate retail value of all prizes is $700. 11. Entry Conditions and ReleaseBy entering, each participant agrees to: (a) comply with and be bound by these Official Rules and the decisions of the Sponsor which are binding and final in all matters relating to this Sweepstakes; (b) release and hold harmless the Sponsor, PepsiCo, Inc., Pepsi-Cola Company, its bottlers, Administrator and each of their respective parents, subsidiary, and affiliated companies, the prize suppliers and any other organizations responsible for sponsoring, fulfilling, administering, advertising or promoting the Sweepstakes and all of their respective past and present officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives (collectively, the “Released Parties”) from and against any and all claims, expenses, and liability, including but not limited to negligence and damages of any kind to persons and property, including but not limited to invasion of privacy (under appropriation, intrusion, public disclosure of private facts, false light in the public eye or other legal theory), defamation, slander, libel, violation of right of publicity, infringement of trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights, property damage, or death or personal injury arising out of or relating to a participant’s entry, creation of an entry or submission of an entry, participation in the Sweepstakes, acceptance or use or misuse of prize (including any travel or activity related thereto) and/or the broadcast, exploitation or use of entry; and (c) indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Released Parties from and against any and all claims, expenses, and liabilities (including reasonable attorneys fees) arising out of or relating to an entrant’s participation in the Sweepstakes and/or entrant’s acceptance, use or misuse of prize. 12. PublicityExcept where prohibited, participation in the Sweepstakes constitutes winner’s consent to Sponsor and its agents use of winner’s name, likeness, photograph, voice, opinions and/or hometown and state for promotional purposes in any media, worldwide, without further payment or consideration. 13. General ConditionsSponsor and Administrator reserve the right to cancel, suspend and/or modify the Sweepstakes, or any part of it, if any fraud, technical failures or any other factor beyond Sponsor or Administrator’s reasonable control impairs the integrity or proper functioning of the Sweepstakes, as determined by Administrator in their sole discretion. Sponsor or Administrator reserve the right in their sole discretion to disqualify any individual it finds to be tampering with the entry process or the operation of the Sweepstakes or to be acting in violation of these Official Rules or any other promotion or in an unsportsmanlike or disruptive manner. Any attempt by any person to deliberately undermine the legitimate operation of the Sweepstakes may be a violation of criminal and civil law, and should such an attempt be made, Administrator reserves the right to seek damages from any such person to the fullest extent permitted by law. Sponsor or Administrator’s failure to enforce any term of these Official Rules shall not constitute a waiver of that provision. 14. Limitations of LiabilityThe Released Parties are not responsible for: (1) any incorrect or inaccurate information, whether caused by entrants, printing errors or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the Sweepstakes; (2) technical failures of any kind, including, but not limited to malfunctions, interruptions, or disconnections in phone lines, or network hardware or software; (3) unauthorized human intervention in any part of the entry process or the Sweepstakes; (4) technical or human error which may occur in the administration of the Sweepstakes or the processing of entries; or (5) any injury or damage to persons or property which may be caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, from entrant’s participation in the Sweepstakes or receipt or use or misuse of any prize. If for any reason an entrant’s entry is confirmed to have been erroneously deleted, lost, or otherwise destroyed or corrupted, entrant’s sole remedy is another entry in the Sweepstakes. In event that production, technical, seeding, programming or any other reasons cause more than stated number of prizes as set forth in these Official Rules to be available and/or claimed, Sponsor reserves the right to award only the stated number of prizes. 15. DisputesEntrant agrees that: (a) any and all disputes, claims and causes of action arising out of or connected with this Sweepstakes, or the prize awarded, shall be resolved individually, without resort to any form of class action; (b) any and all disputes, claims and causes of action arising out of or connected with this Sweepstakes, or the prize awarded, shall be resolved exclusively by the United States District Court or the appropriate Virginia State Court located in Arlington County, Virginia; (c) any and all claims, judgments and awards shall be limited to actual out-of-pocket costs incurred, including costs associated with entering this Sweepstakes, but in no event attorneys’ fees; and (d) under no circumstances will entrant be permitted to obtain awards for, and entrant hereby waives all rights to claim punitive, incidental and consequential damages and any other damages, other than for actual out-of-pocket expenses, and any and all rights to have damages multiplied or otherwise increased. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. All issues and questions concerning the construction, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these Official Rules, or the rights and obligations of the entrant and Sponsor in connection with the Sweepstakes, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Virginia, without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law rules (whether of the State of Virginia or any other jurisdiction), which would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Virginia. 16. PrivacyExcept as noted in these Official Rules, information collected for this Sweepstakes is used only for the purpose of Sweepstakes administration and winner notification and will not be re-used, sold or shared in any manner by the Sponsor or any third parties unless you have elected to receive additional information or promotional material from the Sponsor, or a third party. By participating in the Sweepstakes, participant agrees to all of the terms and conditions of the Sponsor’s Privacy Policy, which is available at https://www.pbs.org/about/about-pbs/privacy-policy/. In the event of any discrepancy between the Sponsor’s Privacy Policy and these Official Rules, these Official Rules shall control and govern. 17. Winners ListFor Sweepstakes results, send a hand-printed, self-addressed, stamped envelope to Winners List – PBS “Viewers Like Me” Social Sweepstakes, Public Broadcasting Service, 1225 S. Clark Street, Arlington, VA 22202. The request for the winners list must be received withing two months of the end of the Sweepstakes Entry Period.
Thank you for signing up for our newsletter!
What to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS coming soon to your inbox. Want to subscribe to see all of PBS’ email offerings in one place? Check out our newsletter page.
The best of PBS, straight to your inbox.
Be the first to know about what to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS.
Leave this field blank
Submit
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
Social Campaigns
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
About PBS
Donate
PBS Foundation
TV Schedule
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sponsorship
Contact Us
© 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.