22 of the Best Gifts Under $50 for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Gift Guide
TechComputing Gadgets
22 of the Best Gifts Under $50 for 2025
A great gift doesn't have to cost a lot. We've found the best gifts under $50, ranging from speakers to headphones to our favorite streaming device, all tested by our CNET experts.
Article updated on Mar 9, 2025
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Written by David Carnoy
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Tech gifts under $50
Mobile Accessories
Anker 622 MagGo magnetic battery What's cool about Anker's 622 magnetic battery is that it's a wireless battery that has an integrated magnetic flap that converts into a stand. You won't get fast wireless charging from this 5,000-mAh battery (it charges at up to 7.5 watts), but it's slim and easy to carry around. It charges via USB-C, and if you use a USB-C to Lightning cable to charge your iPhone, it will charge at a faster rate of 12 watts. That's not as fast as what a 20-watt USB-C power adapter can deliver, but it's faster than 7.5 watts.
$28 at Amazon
Close
Media Streamers
Roku Express 4K Plus Making your TV smart for the price of a takeaway meal? The Roku Express 4K Plus offers hundreds of apps and is easy to install on a spare HDMI port on your television. Roku is our favorite smart TV interface, and it's easy to set up with your own apps.
$30 at Roku
$29 at Amazon
$39 at Walmart
Close
Misc
Clckr Stand and Grip for MagSafe (2nd gen) Clckr's new, trimmer Stand and Grip is one of my favorite MagSafe accessories. The accessory really sticks to the back of your MagSafe-enabled phone or MagSafe-enabled case and not only makes it easier to hold up your phone, but when converted into a kickstand, it props up your device nicely in portrait or landscape mode for video calls or video watching.This new version is lighter than the original and available in several colors. It's one of the best MagSafe stands out there.
$20 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Anker Nano Power Bank (USB-C) If you're looking for a new power bank for your new USB-C equipped iPhone 15, Anker's Nano Power Bank with an integrated foldable USB-C connector is an appealing choice -- and it also charges Android devices (or anything with a USB-C charging port). It's available in multiple color options.This 5,000-mAh power bank weighs in at 3.5 ounces, or 100 grams. It features 22.5 watts of fast charging power with the option to charge two devices at the same time if you plug a cable into the power bank's USB-C in/out charging port. (Charging two devices simultaneously divides the charging power in half, delivering 11.25 watts to each device.)
$21 at Walmart
$24 at Amazon
Close
Computer Accessories
iOttie Velox magnetic wireless charging car mount iOttie offers this MagSafe-compatible wireless car charger with a car vent mount. It has a strong magnet, so your iPhone stays on the mount, and it also has an integrated USB-C cable and cigarette-lighter power adapter so you're ready to start charging out of the box. Note that iPhone "fast" charging caps out at 7.5 watts. It makes for a nice gift for anybody looking for a magnetic car mount for their MagSafe-enabled iPhone.
$50 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
$50 at Best Buy
Close
Computer Accessories
Apple AirTags Here's a gift that anyone who's susceptible to losing things will appreciate. Apple's AirTags accessories work with any Apple device and use the company's FindMy network -- the same one used to locate lost iPhones. Attach them to keys, a backpack or just about anything else. It's $29 for one and $99 for four, and if you buy them through Apple, you can get free customized engravings too.
$25 at Best Buy
$29 at Apple
Close
Misc
Baseus 65W 2-port flat wall charger This slim power adapter is one of the better values out there, with dual USB-C PD (power delivery) ports, a USB-A and a total of 65 watts of power. That'll allow you to charge most devices, including some larger USB-C laptops. It uses GaN technology, which helps reduce the size of the charger, and the plug is foldable. The nice thing about it is how lightweight and flat it is for a 65-watt charger
$0 at Amazon
Close
Audio gifts under $50
Speakers
JBL Go 4 JBL says it's improved the sound of its smallest speaker, the Go 4, and after testing it, we agree that indeed it does have "more robust sound and punchier bass than its predecessor." For such a tiny speaker, which literally fits in your pocket, it sounds surprisingly good, though it has its limitations, of course (it can only produce so much bass and sound).Available in nine color options, the Go 4 has an "updated silhouette" and a wider and more durable carrying strap. The speaker is rated for seven hours of playtime at moderate volume levels, is IP67 waterproof and dustproof and comes equipped with Bluetooth 5.3 with LE audio. It also has multispeaker connectivity via the JBL Portable app and Auracast.
$40 at Amazon
$40 at Best Buy
$40 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Sony CH-520 Sony's new entry-level CH-720N noise-canceling headphones came out this year and they're quite good, but if you can't afford them (they list for $150), the company's new budget on-ear CH-520 headphones are an intriguing option for the price. Theey have a ist price of $77, but right now we're seeing them on sale for less than $60.They lack noise canceling and are pretty no-frills, but they feature good sound for their price, are lightweight and pretty comfortable for on-ear headphones and also have excellent battery life -- they're rated for up to 50 hours at moderate volume levels. Additionally, they have multipoint Bluetooth pairing, so you can pair them with two devices simultaneously (such as a smartphone and computer) and switch audio. Voice-calling performance is decent, though not up to the level of what you get with the CH-720N. Note that there's no wired option -- these are wireless, Bluetooth-only headphones. The CH-520 offer overall balanced sound with decent clarity. The bass has some punch to it but doesn't pack a wallop, and you're not going to get quite as wide a soundstage as you get from Sony's more expensive over-ear headphones. But these definitely sound better than Sony's previous entry-level on-ear headphones and sound better than I thought they would. I tried the white color, but they also come in blue and black.
$39 at Amazon
Close
Tech
Soundcore by Anker P30i earbuds Available in five color options, the Soundcore by Anker P30i earbuds are lightweight, budget earbuds that fit most ears well, sound decent for their low price, and also feature active noise canceling that's fairly effective. While they don't offer premium sound or performance, they certainly do the job, and what's nifty about them is that their charging case converts into a stand for your phone. Equipped with Bluetooth 5.4 and touch controls, they're rated for up to seven hours of battery life at moderate volume levels with noise canceling on (that's good). They're also splash-proof and dust-resistant, with an IP54 rating. I had no problems running with them.
$30 at Amazon
$40 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Headphones
JLab Go Work Known for its value headphones and earbuds, JLab has released a pair of on-ear headphones with an integrated boom microphone -- it can be rotated up when just listening to music -- and multipoint Bluetooth pairing so you can connect them to your phone and computer simultaneously. I'm more partial to the Jabra Elite 45h headphones, which list for $100 but usually sell for around $75. But if you don't want to spend quite that much, the Go Work are solid headphones, and a solid headset, for the modest price. They're also comfortable to wear, with a lightweight design. You won't mistake these for premium headphones, but the build quality seems fine. Battery life is rated at up to 45 hours at moderate volume levels, and you can mute calls using the multifunction button (an LED lights up at the end of the boom mic when the call is muted). I wouldn't call the sound quality for music listening and the headset performance stellar, but they're good, particularly for the price. For music listening, there's ample bass and clarity, and a cable is included for wired use. The headphones charge via USB-C. Bottom line: This is a solid gift for anyone who spends some or all of their time working remotely.
$49 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
$49 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Speakers
Soundcore by Anker Select Go 4 The Soundcore by Anker Select Go 4 doesn't have quite the build quality as JBL's Go 4 micro Bluetooth speaker (it has a slight budget feel to it), but it offers comparable sound quality and costs half the price. Like the JBL Go 4, the similarly named Select Go 4 sounds decent for its tiny size and is able to output just enough bass to avoid sounding tinny. Also, it's fully waterproof and even floats. Battery life is rated for an impressive 20 hours at moderate volumes and you can pair two of these speakers together for stereo sound. It's definitely a good value.
$24 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Soundpeats Air3 Deluxe HS What makes these Soundpeats Air3 Deluxe HS buds special is that they sound surprisingly good for open earbuds -- they're pretty close to what you get from Apple's AirPods 3 for sound. On top of that, they support Sony's LDAC audio codec for devices that offer it. Not too many cheap open earbuds have good sound, but these Soundpeats have good bass response and clarity. They're also good for making calls and have a low-latency gaming mode. Be sure to activate the instant coupon on the product page to save 10%.
$43 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
Close
Wellness gifts under $50
Gadgets
Waowoo weighted blanket Weighted blankets have become a popular item that people use to sleep better. They hug your body and distribute weighted glass beads evenly in small pockets. This blanket is breathable and machine-washable in a cleaning bag on the gentle cycle. This blanket comes in 15 and 20-pound varieties, and you'll want to select the proper weight for your recipient's body type. Be sure to activate the instant coupon to save a few extra bucks, too.
$28 at Amazon
Close
Gadgets
Chirp Wheel foam roller Chirp Wheel foam rollers come in a few different sizes and you can buy a four-pack of them if you're looking for a set. But if you want to start with just one, the $50 10-inch medium size is a good one. Chirp Wheels, particularly the larger ones, have a bigger circumference than your typical foam roller. They're designed to fit between your shoulder blades, and I did find them better than your standard foam roller for stretching and realigning my vertebrae, though they are pricier.
$50 at Amazon
Close
Fitness Accessories
Renpho Smart Jump Rope Doing cardio doesn't necessarily mean you have to hop on a treadmill or elliptical machine. Jumping rope can help get your heart rate up quickly and is an inexpensive way to squeeze in a quick workout. Renpho's Smart Jump Rope is the perfect gift for someone on your list who isn't keen on traditional cardio.When you connect the Smart Jump Rope to the Renpho Fit app (available for iOS and Android), you can track your reps, calories burned and the duration of your workout. The LCD screen on the handle can read your skip time and total number of skips even when you aren't using the app. This makes for an ideal portable form of exercise even while traveling.
$20 at Amazon
Close
Personal Care
Oral-B Pro 1000 The Oral-B Pro 1000 rechargeable electric toothbrush is ostensibly geared toward adults, but it's also a good tool for parents to get their kids to brush better. I had my 14-year-old test it (he's not a good brusher with a standard toothbrush), and it has a had a positive impact on his brushing habits. Available in multiple color options, it has three brushing modes (daily clean, whiten and sensitive) and a built-in two-minute timer to make sure you brush long enough, with the toothbrush pulsing every 30 seconds to remind you to switch brushing spots. It's compatible with various Oral-B replacement heads. Note that the step-up iO Series 300 (about $20 more) comes with an extra replacement head while the iO Series 400 adds Bluetooth so you can connect to a companion app.
$50 at Amazon
Close
Knockaround sunglasses If you're on the hunt for a decent pair of budget sunglasses, Knockaround has various models, including those with polarized and mirrored coatings, for $25 and even slightly less. They're not premium glasses obviously, but the lenses are pretty decent and the glasses look more expensive than their low price would indicate. These designer sunglasses also seem pretty durable. Several different styles, colors and lens options are available. You can also shop Knockaround's NFL, NHL and MLB collections if you're looking for a gift for the sports fan in your life.
See at Knockaround
Close
Misc
LifeStraw Peak Series personal water filter You can use the LifeStraw Peak Series in a couple of ways: Use it as an actual straw to drink water directly from a lake or stream, or attach it to a plastic soda bottle that you've filled with water (we're talking about a bottle that has a standard screw-off top). The truth is you can drink some pretty nasty-looking water using the LifeStraw, which filters out not only silt, sand and cloudiness but bacteria, parasites and microplastics.It's obviously good for hiking trips and camping, but a lot of people keep them in their cars just in case they get stranded somewhere without easy access to drinking water. It's also good for trips to countries that don't have the cleanest drinking water.
$25 at Amazon
Close
Home gifts under $50
Small kitchen appliances
Ninja Blast There are more-affordable portable blenders, like the Blendjet 2 and the Hamilton Beach Single-Serve, but the Ninja Blast, which lists for $60, is a step up from those models. It looks and feels more premium, and though it isn't superpowerful, it's a good option for making smoothies and protein shakes on the go or at home when you don't want to deal with a full-size blender. Additionally, you can drink right from the blender, as it has a leak-proof sip lid. Available in multiple color options and easy to operate, it has an 18 ounce-capacity and recharges via USB-C.
$70 at Amazon
$70 at Best Buy
Close
Misc
Gerber Gear Armbar Drive multitool Gerber makes some nice multitools, and its Armbar Drive is one of its most compact models, featuring eight tools: a fine edge blade, scissors, awl, two-sided 1/4-inch bit driver, pry bar, bottle opener and hammer, all made of stainless steel (the blade is held securely with a frame lock). I got the burnt orange model, but it also comes in blue and onyx.
$42 at Amazon
Close
GSI Outdoors Boulder hip flask GSI Outdoors makes a bunch of insulated mugs and water bottles along with a bunch of camping-related cooking gear, including stoves and chef's tools. But it's also known for its lightweight hip flasks that come in a few different sizes and colors. I've used the smaller 6-ounce version, which is truly pocketable, but the 10-ounce model is probably the right choice for most people. Made of plastic, it has a shatter-resistant body with rubberized bumpers. It doesn't cost a lot and it's a gift that tends to be appreciated.
$23 at Sportsman's Warehouse
$23 at Bass Pro Shops
$23 at REI
Close
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
The Best Gifts on Amazon That Actually Aren't Junk: From $25 to $250
By
James Bricknell
28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life
By
Jennifer Krazit
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.