3 International Funds for US Investors Seeking Higher Dividends | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Funds
3 International Funds for US Investors Seeking Higher Dividends
3 International Funds for US Investors Seeking Higher Dividends
It can pay to look beyond US large-cap funds for income.
Todd Trubey
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Vanguard International Explorer Inv
(VINEX)
Vanguard Real Estate Index Investor
(VGSIX)
Lazard Global Listed Infrastructure Inst
(GLIFX)
DFA International Small Company I
(DFISX)
Vanguard Energy Inv
(VGENX)
+2 More
If you’re a US investor thinking your domestic dividend fund’s yield looks weak lately, there’s some good news and bad news. The good news is the average 2.0% yield of a broad group of 88 domestic dividend funds wasn’t that much lower than their 10-year average of 2.3%. The bad news is that 2.0% and 2.3% yields are pretty puny.American investors do have an alternative, however: international funds that reap dividends abroad. That’s because non-US stocks tend to pay higher dividends than domestic equities. Here are three funds that have Morningstar Medalist Ratings of Silver that illustrate the range of options for international dividend funds.It’s important to mention that non-US dividends may face double taxation—by the country of origin and by the US. That said, many countries have agreements with the US to provide relief from double taxes, and the US’ foreign tax credit also offsets foreign taxes. Still, taxes can crimp foreign dividends. Vanguard International High Dividend Yield Index VIHAX had a yield of 4% in August 2025. Its overall returns have been good, too: Its annualized gain from its 2016 inception through August 2025 was 10%, which ranked just outside the top quartile in its foreign large value Morningstar Category. Plus, this fund is cheap and well-diversified: It has a 0.17% expense ratio, and it recently held roughly 1,600 stocks. Because expenses are subtracted from portfolio income, low fees tend to promote higher yields.As a side note, Vanguard has a number of other domestic and international-stock funds that have solid yields. Other good Vanguard options include Vanguard Energy VGENX, Vanguard Real Estate Index VGSIX, and Vanguard International Explorer VINEX.DFA International Small Cap Value DISVX is another broadly diversified foreign-equity fund with a tiny expense ratio. It’s a bit more off the beaten path in the small/mid-value universe, so it likely provides nice diversification to your overall portfolio. Over the past decade, its average rolling 12-month yield was 2.6%, but in August 2025, it was 3.5%. International small-caps have lagged the past decade, so the fund’s 8.9% annualized return might not look great compared with that of a domestic equity fund. But in the first eight months of 2025, it jumped 36% (the S&P 500 gained just 11%). Its small/mid-blend sibling, DFA International Small Company DFISX, also produces attractive dividend income. Turning to more specialty players, Lazard Global Listed Infrastructure GLIFX retains the foreign flavor, but the 30-stock fund focuses on areas known especially for dividends; more than 50% of the portfolio is in utilities, with another 33% in industrials. Over the past decade, its rolling 12-month yield has averaged a plump 3.7%, but in August it was 2.7%. Of the funds here with 10-year annualized returns, this fund’s was the best at 9.9%.This article first appeared in the August 2025 issue of Morningstar FundInvestor. Download a complimentary copy of FundInvestor by visiting this website.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
9 Top-Performing Large-Value Funds Funds from Invesco, Natixis, and BNY are among the best performers.
Gabe Alpert Sep 18, 2025
The 2 ETFs That Track Congressional Stock Trades These vehicles shed light on how Democratic and Republican members of Congress invest their money.
Zachary Evens Sep 18, 2025
Why We Highly Rate American Funds American Mutual A solid income-oriented approach.
Stephen Welch Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Todd Trubey Senior Analyst, Manager Research
More from Author
Todd Trubey is a senior manager research analyst for Morningstar.
3 Dividend Funds With Foreign Flair
Todd Trubey Sep 17, 2025
3 International Funds for US Investors Seeking Higher Dividends
Todd Trubey Sep 16, 2025
Why We Highly Rate Vanguard Dividend Growth
Todd Trubey Jul 10, 2025
Why We Highly Rate Vanguard Equity-Income
Todd Trubey Jun 5, 2025
Morningstar’s Recommended Reading List for Investors in 2025
Nour Al Twal Dec 12, 2024
4 Large-Value Funds to Support Your Income Strategy
Todd Trubey Sep 12, 2024
Vanguard Equity-Income Is a Solid Choice for Dividend-Seeking Investors
Todd Trubey Apr 25, 2024
Why Vanguard Dividend Growth Is a Great Portfolio Anchor
Todd Trubey Apr 12, 2024
How to Find a Great Dividend Fund
Daniel Sotiroff Apr 5, 2024
What Makes a Great Dividend Fund?
Daniel Sotiroff Dec 12, 2023
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility