How did assaults on science become the norm — and what can we do?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
book reviews
article
How did assaults on science become the norm — and what can we do?
Download PDF
BOOK REVIEW
16 September 2025
How did assaults on science become the norm — and what can we do?
An insightful book explores attacks on science from a historical and a personal perspective.
By
Gretchen T. Goldman ORCID: http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1787-98510
Gretchen T. Goldman
Gretchen T. Goldman is the president and chief executive of the Union of Concerned Scientists, based in Washington DC.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Anti-vaccine groups protested against the actions of Anthony Fauci, who served as chief medical adviser to the US president in 2021–22. Credit: Dave Decker/Zuma Press/eyevine
Science under Siege: How to Fight the Five Most Powerful Forces that Threaten Our World Michael E. Mann & Peter J. Hotez PublicAffairs (2025)Months into President Trump’s second term, science and scientists are under attack as never before in the United States. The administration is forcing devastating cuts to previously stable US research investments, dismantling federal science agencies and programmes, ousting independent scientific officials and blatantly disregarding evidence on issues that affect us all, including vaccines, air pollution and fossil fuels.‘Now is not the time for despair’ — how scientists can take a stand against political interferenceThe scientific community needs to recognize these trends and fight back in every way possible. The timely release of Science under Siege by paediatrician and vaccine specialist Peter Hotez and climate scientist Michael Mann is a welcome addition to the scientific community’s arsenal. Both authors work to dispel misinformation in the public and political arenas, and both have experienced personal attacks because of it.Mann, known for his ‘hockey stick’ visual representation of soaring global average temperatures owing to climate change, has faced years of public disparagement and threats to his physical safety. Hotez found himself in the crosshairs of the politicization of public-health guidance, on vaccines in particular, during the COVID-19 pandemic — and had to hire private security. Together, they explore the forces that undermine science in the United States and beyond.Five forces to contend withThe duo skilfully establishes parallels in the attacks on climate scientists and on public-health professionals. The two fields might seem disparate, but specialists in both share a responsibility to inform the public about the “one-two punch of climate change and pandemics” — the effects of which are mutually reinforcing to “threaten massive loss in human life” — and find solutions.Who is on RFK Jr’s new vaccine panel — and what will they do?In some cases, Mann and Hotez note, the same tactics are used in attempts to discredit their work in both fields — sometimes even by the same people. For example, climate-disinformation messaging morphed over several years from ‘it’s not real’ to ‘it’s actually good for us’. These same tactics were adopted by peddlers of COVID-19 misinformation, who claimed that widespread infection could lead to herd immunity, and caught on much faster, mere months after the virus began spreading.But who’s behind the lies, propaganda and attacks? Mann and Hotez identify five forces — the ‘five Ps’ — that drive threats to science and scientists: plutocrats, petrostates, pros (that is, academics and specialists who use their credentials to promote disingenuous, and lucrative, contrarian views), propagandists and the press. Mann and Hotez detail how bad actors continue to propagate misinformation, persecute scientists, undermine science-based decisions from policymakers and the public and threaten global health and safety.Fighting backAs the president of the Union of Concerned Scientists — a science-advocacy non-profit organization that spends its time fighting these known enemies — I found this thorough naming and shaming resonant and indeed cathartic. I imagine that this exploration of just how pervasive and well-funded these forces are might also bring relief to scientists wondering why their commitment to truth-telling isn’t enough.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
Nature 645, 583-584 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02920-0
Competing Interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles
Scientists take on Trump: these researchers are fighting back
‘Now is not the time for despair’ — how scientists can take a stand against political interference
Who is on RFK Jr’s new vaccine panel — and what will they do?
Vaccine specialist Peter Hotez: scientists are ‘under attack for someone else’s political gain’
COVID vaccines: time to confront anti-vax aggression
When the government cancels your research grant, here’s what you can do
Subjects
Government
Scientific community
Society
Latest on:
Government
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
News 17 SEP 25
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
News 17 SEP 25
Scientific community
Tipsy bats and perfect pasta: Ig Nobels celebrate ‘improbable’ research
News 18 SEP 25
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
Society
People are more likely to cheat when they delegate tasks to AI
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Fertility declines are no cause for concern, history shows
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
A population plunge could help to mitigate the global biodiversity crisis
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Jobs
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Related Articles
Scientists take on Trump: these researchers are fighting back
‘Now is not the time for despair’ — how scientists can take a stand against political interference
Who is on RFK Jr’s new vaccine panel — and what will they do?
Vaccine specialist Peter Hotez: scientists are ‘under attack for someone else’s political gain’
COVID vaccines: time to confront anti-vax aggression
When the government cancels your research grant, here’s what you can do
Subjects
Government
Scientific community
Society
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited