On hold? Your iPhone can listen to the call's music and wait for you - here's how | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
iOS
On hold? Your iPhone can listen to the call's music and wait for you - here's how
Hold Assist in iOS 26 will notify you the moment a live agent returns and even show a transcript of what you might have missed.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 12:00 a.m. PT
Apple / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysHold Assist waits on hold for you -- no more elevator music.Hold Assist Detection auto-detects when you're placed on hold.Get a notification and transcript when a live agent returns.I've been playing with the official release of iOS 26, getting to know all the new features. I've found a trick you've got to try, if you've ever wasted 20 minutes listening to elevator music while waiting for a customer service rep.I've already talked about how screenshots are more useful now and how you can use an automated voice to screen unknown spam calls. But another iOS 26 feature I've come to appreciate is Hold Assist. It takes over when you're put on hold. Instead of forcing you to sit through music or keep the call open, your iPhone listens and alerts you the moment a person is back.
Also: This iOS 26 trick made my old iPhone photos really pop - in 3DJust tap the Hold Assist banner when it appears, or enable it manually from the in-call menu, and your iPhone will monitor the line. When the agent returns, you'll get a notification and see a transcript of what you might have missed so you can easily rejoin.
How to use Hold Assist on an iPhone call
What you'll need: An iPhone running iOS 26 or later. If you want your iPhone to proactively detect hold music during a call and prompt you to let Hold Assist take over, you'll need to enable Hold Assist Detection first. (Just open the Settings app, scroll down and tap Apps, then select Phone, and toggle on Hold Assist Detection.) It should already be on, but it's best to check.
1. Activate Hold Assist from the banner
The easiest way to activate Hold Assist is to accept the banner that appears when your call goes on hold.When you're on a call and placed on hold, look for the "Hold this Call?" banner.Tap Hold to let your iPhone monitor the call while you get back to doing other things.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Or trigger Hold Assist manually
If Hold Assist Detection isn't enabled, or maybe you dismissed the banner, or perhaps your iPhone isn't recognizing that you're on hold because there's no music, you can still activate Hold Assist manually.Tap the More button on the call screen.Select Hold Assist to turn it on manually.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Now go do other things
You can now swipe away the call screen, use other apps, or put your phone down to get back to work on your laptop, whatever you need. While Hold Assist is active, your iPhone keeps the call going in the background. You'll see a live activity -- a green call bubble on older iPhone models or a Dynamic Island indicator on newer ones -- to confirm the call is still in progress.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
4. Rejoin the call
If you're wondering what happens when someone comes back on the line, your iPhone will buzz and show a notification letting you know they've returned. Just tap the Pick up button to instantly return to the conversation. You can also check the transcript on your screen to see what you might've missed while on hold. Also: Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)Tip: Make sure your iPhone isn't set to Silent or Do Not Disturb, because you might miss the notification.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQs
What does iOS 26's Hold Assist do on iPhone?
Hold Assist monitors your call while you're on hold, notifies you when a live person returns, and shows a transcript of what you missed. Meanwhile, Hold Assist Detection is a toggle in the Phone app settings that lets your iPhone automatically detect when you've been placed on hold by listening for background music. During these calls, a banner will prompt you to activate Hold Assist.
Also: How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before the iOS 26 update)When I tried it with my partner, he said he heard a beep. After that, when he started speaking, he was told the message was being transcribed. I also tested Hold Assist while on hold with my insurance company and again with my power utility. Both times, I was prompted to enable Hold Assist, did so, and resumed the calls once I got a notification. Neither agent or caller mentioned knowing they'd been on hold, though in one instance I could see in the transcript that the agent was speaking to me to say they were back.Which iPhones support Hold Assist?Hold Assist is available on iPhone 12, iPhone SE (3rd generation), and later models running iOS 26.
Is Hold Assist available everywhere?
No. It's available in the US, UK, and Canada in English, along with additional regions. See the full list of supported countries here.
Do I need to turn on Hold Assist in Settings? Hold Assist can be enabled manually from the call screen. If you want your iPhone to automatically detect hold music and prompt you, make sure Hold Assist Detection is turned on in the Phone app settings. It should be on by default.
Will I still hear the hold music? Nope. Once Hold Assist takes over, you can leave the call screen and use your iPhone without distraction.
What if I dismiss the Hold Assist banner?
You can still enable Hold Assist manually during a call by tapping More > Hold Assist in the call menu.
Show more
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
iPhone battery worse after updating to iOS 26? Here's why, and how I fixed it
My favorite iOS 26 feature answers unknown calls so I don't have to - here's how
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use