This iOS 26 trick made my old iPhone photos really pop - in 3D | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
This iOS 26 trick made my old iPhone photos really pop - in 3D
With iOS 26, your photos can turn into dynamic images that shift and bend as you move - and you don't even need a new iPhone.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 7:58 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysTurn flat photos into 3D scenes with iOS 26 Spatial Scenes.Works on iPhone 12 or newer -- no special hardware needed.Enable with one tap in Photos or set on your Lock Screen.If you've updated to iOS 26, you might have noticed a new hexagon button in the Photos app. It's called Spatial Scenes, and it turns regular photos into dynamic, 3D-like images that respond to your movements. So, instead of staying flat and static, your photo shifts and bends slightly as you tilt your iPhone. The best part? Spatial Scenes retrofits depth into existing pictures in your photo library.Also: Got iOS 26? Turn on this iPhone setting to make your screenshots instantly better - here's howWhen I first saw Apple demo the feature during its event keynote, I thought it looked cool but also wondered, who actually uses all these gimmicky photo tricks? I've now had the chance to test it, and I'm surprised at how fun it is to try. And you don't need one of the new iPhone 17 models either -- Spatial Scenes work on the iPhone 12 or later, no special lenses or sensors required.
How to turn your iPhone photo into a spatial scene
What you'll need: An iPhone 12 or newer running iOS 26.
1. Open the Photos app and choose an image
When you enable Spatial Scene on a photo, it analyzes the image, separates the subject from the background, and adds a subtle parallax effect, which is what makes the image appear to move as you do. All the magic happens right in Apple's Photos app, so let's start there. Make sure your iPhone is running iOS 26.Launch the Photos app.Browse through your camera roll and find a picture you want to edit.Also: Is iOS 26 draining your iPhone battery faster? Here's why - and what you can doNot every image works well with Spatial Scenes. Look for a photo in your camera roll with a clear subject, like a person, pet, or building. The shots that "pop" the most usually have a strong foreground that stands out from the background. Portrait-style photos, for instance, often have a nice effect.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Tap the Spatial Scenes button
Got a photo? Great -- Apple kind of buried the Spatial Scenes button in the photo viewer. It looks like a small hexagon icon, tucked in the top-right corner.With your chosen photo open, locate the Spatial Scenes button (hexagon).Tap it once to activate Spatial Scenes.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Tilt your phone
Now here's the fun part -- putting the effect into action.Hold your iPhone in front of you.Slowly tilt or move it side to side.Watch as the subject pops from the background while the background subtly shifts.Also: Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it downThe effect is subtle, and not every photo needs it, but with the right ones it can feel dramatic. Avoid blurry shots, since Spatial Scenes doesn't work as well on them, and in my experience, broad landscapes aren't great either. I tried it on some photos of my porch, my husband and me, my pets, and my 4-year-old daughter. What were otherwise pretty basic images suddenly felt much more immersive and interesting. I'm not sure how often I'll use the feature in practice, but it's definitely fun, and I can see myself enabling it on most portrait shots of my loved ones -- just to see the effect.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQs
How do Spatial Scenes differ from spatial photos and videos?
Spatial Scenes are an AI-powered depth effect that turns 2D photos into dynamic, 3D-like images. They don't require new hardware, because they use AI and software to add depth to any existing photo taken with an iPhone 12 or newer.
Also: Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)Spatial photos and videos, on the other hand, are formats that must be captured with special hardware on the iPhone 16 or newer models -- and you view them in full 3D using an Apple Vision Pro. ZDNET's David Gewirtz reviewed spatial photos and videos last year. Like me, he initially dismissed them as a gimmick, but the experience turned emotional when it "realified" old snapshots of his pets, including a cat he lost decades ago. It wasn't flawless, but it was powerful enough to make him cry.
Can I use Spatial Scenes on the Lock Screen?
Yes. To do so, long-press your Lock Screen, create a new wallpaper, and toggle the Spatial Scenes effect when choosing your photo.
Long-press your Lock Screen until customization options appear.Tap the + button to add a new wallpaper.iOS will suggest compatible photos, or you can pick one manually.On the customization screen, toggle Spatial Scenes on.Preview the effect, then hit Done or Add.Also: How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before the iOS 26 update)
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET Which iPhones support Spatial Scenes? To use Spatial Scenes, you need an iPhone 12 or newer running iOS 26.
Can I share a Spatial Scene?
You can send the photo, but only other iOS 26 devices will display the Spatial Scene effect. On older phones, it'll appear still and flat.
Can I turn off Spatial Scenes on a photo?
Want to restore a Spatial Scene to 2D? Tap the hexagon icon again in Photos to toggle it off.
Show more
Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Got iOS 26? Turn on this iPhone setting to make your screenshots instantly better - here's how
You can update your iPhone to iOS 26 right now (here's which models support it)
The 2 biggest AI features that you should try on your iPhone 17 and AirPods ASAP
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use