Upgraded to iOS 26? Watch out for this AI feature | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Upgraded to iOS 26? Watch out for this AI feature
AI news summaries could do more harm than good. Here's how to use them safely (or just turn them off).
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 19, 2025 at 8:59 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeaways AI news and entertainment summaries return to iOS 26. The feature has a tendency to inaccurately summarize information. Apple offers a disclaimer before enabling the feature. AI can handle a lot well, including computational tasks, schedule coordination, and answering simple questions, but one area it tends to struggle with is message summarization.If you've tested out AI summaries in your Messages app, you've probably seen the AI attempt to summarize the text you just got, only to fall short in quickly, correctly, and concisely paraphrasing. I've seen this feature regularly miss the mark when a friend sends me several messages in a row that aren't all related. Also: Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)So when Apple brought AI notification summaries back to its news and entertainment apps with iOS 26, the feature came with a disclaimer. Now, when choosing which apps Apple's AI will summarize, iPhone users see disclaimers next to the choice for news and entertainment apps. "This beta feature will occasionally make mistakes that could misrepresent the meaning of the original notification," it reads. "Summarization may change the meaning of the original headlines. Verify information." Apple disabled AI notification summaries for news and entertainment apps in January, following the BBC's critiques that Apple's AI incorrectly paraphrased one of its articles, leading to inaccurate information dissemination. The summary incorrectly stated that Luigi Mangione had shot himself after his alleged killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson. Also: Chatbots are distorting news - even for paid users"Trust in news is low enough already without giant American corporations coming in and using it as a kind of test product," former Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger told the BBC. Journalist unions called on Apple to disable the feature earlier this year. It's essential for news organizations to send accurate information to their readers and to know that info will arrive on their devices intact. Apple's feature is only the latest example of this ongoing problem; AI models, which still hallucinate, can mix up facts or get details wrong in an effort to deliver quick and digestible notifications at the expense of the information itself. How to opt outIf you want to opt out of AI news summaries, go to Settings, then select Notifications, select Summarize Notifications, and disable the feature. Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How researchers tricked ChatGPT into sharing sensitive email data
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
Is iOS 26 draining your iPhone battery faster? Here's why - and what you can do
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use