Get Involved at NIH | National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
(LockA locked padlock)
or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Menu
Health Information
Health Information
Health Info Lines
MedlinePlus Health Info
Science Education Resources
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You
Your Healthiest Self: Wellness Toolkits
NIH News in Health
Talking With Your Doctor or Health Care Provider
Grants & Funding
Grants & Funding
Grants Home Page
Find Funding
Due Dates
How to Apply
New to NIH
Policy & Compliance
Grants News/Blog
Contracts
Loan Repayment
News & Events
News & Events
News Releases
Media Inquiries
NIH on Social Media
Images and B-roll
Calendar of Events
NIH News Publications
Research & Training
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation & Guidance
Lasker Clinical Research Scholars
Institutes at NIH
Institutes at NIH
List of Institutes and Centers
NIH Office of the Director
Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers
NIH Institute and Center Contact Information
About NIH
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
En Español
Search
Search
Breadcrumb
Home
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
Get Involved at NIH
Get Involved at NIH
NIH encourages and depends on public involvement in federally supported research and activities. NIH’s wide-ranging public efforts include outreach and education, nationwide events, requests for public input on NIH projects, and special programs designed specifically to involve public representatives in clinical research.
Public Involvement with NIH
NIH engages in a wide range of outreach efforts, including nationwide events, requests for public input on NIH projects, and special programs designed specifically to involve public representatives in the clinical research enterprise.
Community Liaison Opportunities
The Office of Community Liaison has a long standing partnership with the Bethesda/Chevy Chase community, and is dedicated to serving the interests and well-being of the NIH neighborhood and its neighbors.
Volunteer
NIH Clinical Center: Volunteer Opportunities
Volunteer Training, FAQs, Contact Us
NLM History of Medicine Volunteer Program
Volunteer Training, FAQs, Contact Us
Volunteering Throughout the Federal Government
Find opportunities throughout the federal government on USA.gov — Type "volunteering" into the search box.
Clinical Studies
Clinical studies are medical research studies in which people participate as volunteers. Clinical research studies (sometimes called trials or protocols) are a means of developing new treatments and medications for diseases and conditions.
Clinical Research Trials and You
Learn about clinical trials, how to participate, and how clinical research helps NIH advance science and improve health.
Clinical studies conducted at NIH
Participate in clinical studies at the NIH Clinical Center.
Nationwide clinical trials
Easy access to information on publicly and privately supported clinical studies on a wide range of diseases and conditions.
Office of Advocacy Relations
The National Cancer Institute's Office of Advocacy Relations works serves as a conduit between NCI and the cancer advocacy community.
Healthy Volunteers
Healthy volunteers provide researchers with important information for comparison with people who have specific illnesses. Every year, nearly 3,500 healthy volunteers participate in studies at NIH. Learn how to become a healthy volunteer at NIH.
NIH Office of Science Education
Explore the Office of Science Education's resources for the public.
NIH Outreach and Education
NIH Communications
There are communication offices at each of our 27 Institutes and Centers. The Office of Communications & Public Liaison (OCPL) in the Office of the Director speaks for NIH as a whole.
NIH communication offices provide information on NIH programs and activities to the public, scientific community, medical profession, and the media.
NIH News — current press releases
NIH Research Matters — weekly research news
NIH News in Health — monthly consumer health newsletter
NIH Calendar of Events — scientific meetings
Selected NIH Education and Awareness Campaigns
NIH Record — employee newsletter
Freedom of Information Act Office (FOIA)
Visitor tours
Scientific Research and Training Opportunities
The NIH sponsors programs for students in
high school;
college/university;
graduate school and medical/dental school;
as well as researchers doing postbaccalaureate work. See also the Foundation for Advanced Education in the Sciences (FAES), a non-profit organization sponsoring continuing medical education for physicians.
Science Education for All Ages
Our STEM Teaching Resources site offers free STEM education materials (grades pre-K through 12) created by the institutes and centers within the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and recipients of the NIH Science Education Partnership Award (SEPA) program.
Small Business Opportunities
If you're a small business interested in contracting at NIH, please start by reading the information provided by our parent Agency, the Department of Health and Human Services.
The HHS Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization is fully dedicated to supporting every small business entity (which includes minority, women-owned, veteran-owned, service-disabled veteran-owned and HUBZone companies), in their pursuit of health-related contracts.
Visit Research Opportunities for Small Businesses (SBIR/STTR) to learn about NIH, CDC, and FDA research funding opportunities for qualified United States small businesses to engage in Research/Research and Development (R/R&D) that has the potential for commercialization.
Check out the OSDBU Calendar of Events for Conferences, Workshops, Seminars and Expos.
Additional Resources
National Institutes of Hope: Help Us Help You
No matter who you are, NIH needs your help. Here are just a few of the many things you can do to advance our mission of hope.
Tribal Guidance
Tribal consultation policy, points of contact, and advisory committee charter.
Related Links
NIH Foundation — identifies and develops opportunities for innovative public-private partnerships involving industry, academia, and the philanthropic community
The Children's Inn at NIH — a private, non-profit, family-centered residence for pediatric outpatients at the NIH and for their families
Friends of Patients at the NIH — a non-profit, charitable organization that provides emergency financial assistance to NIH patients and their families
Conferences, Workshops, Seminars and Expos
Doing Business with the Department of Health and Human Services
Contracting Information
Policies
This page last reviewed on April 29, 2025
Footer menu
NIH Home
Contact Us
En Español
Virtual Tour
Visitor Information
FAQs
NIH on Social Media
Press Room
NIH Website Archives
National Institutes of Health
9000 Rockville Pike
Bethesda, Maryland 20892
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health®
Follow Us
www.nih.gov
An official website of the Department of Health and Human Services
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility
Freedom of Information Act
No Fear Act
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Office of Inspector General
Nondiscrimination Notice
Looking for U.S. government information and services?
Visit USA.gov
Subir