Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone — rebooted firm gives huge thank you to fans | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Retro Gaming
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Retro Gaming
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
Retro Gaming
Commodore acquired for a ‘low seven figure’ price
Retro Gaming
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Retro Gaming
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Storage
Remaking a Commodore 64 Datasette from 1982 using 1993 microcassette tech
Retro Gaming
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Retro Gaming
Iconic Vectrex console reimagined for the modern day with OLED display, microSD, and wireless controllers
Tech Industry
Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate
Desktops
$9 Goodwill PC find earns congratulations from enthusiasts
Retro Gaming
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
PC Cases
Rare Apple-1 with storied ownership could fetch over $300,000 at auction
Retro Gaming
After nearly 30 years, Settlers II arrives on Amiga
Motherboards
MSI on track to ship 10 million motherboards in 2025 despite a reportedly cautious AI strategy
CPUs
AMD's desktop PC market share hits a new high as server gains slow down — Intel now only outsells AMD 2:1, down from 9:1 a few years ago
Video Games
Retro Gaming
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone — rebooted firm gives huge thank you to fans
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
21 September 2025
Some Batch 1 units remain, ready to be snapped up, priced from $299.
Comments (2)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Commodore)
The new, reinvigorated Commodore has announced that its maiden product reached a significant milestone. A few hours ago, the official Commodore account on X shared evidence that the Commodore 64 Ultimate had eclipsed the 10,000 units sold milestone. The statement also offered profuse thanks to the community.On behalf of the entire Commodore team, a HUGE THANK YOU goes out to you, our incredible community. Hitting 10K pre-orders of the Commodore 64 Ultimate is only possible because of your passion and support.Together, we’re not just reliving history, we’re building the future… pic.twitter.com/l2YJmQBBgOSeptember 21, 2025If you unfurl the embedded Tweet, above, you can see the growth in sales charted for the C64 Ultimate (all models). Things got off to a galloping start from the get-go on July 12 this year. From August, we have seen more steady progress in sales numbers. Interestingly, the chart has markers on the timeline to coincide with the ‘Let’s Buy Commodore’ video trilogy releases. These videos got hundreds of thousands of views (one over 400,000), so the Commodore management were obviously measuring the media impact on sales trends.Our last report, on how Commodore successfully raked in over $2 million during the C64 Ultimate’s debut week, coincided with a video release titled ‘Making History: Signing the Commodore Contract + C64 Ultimate Production Update.’ We also saw a very positive blip in sales around that date. Perhaps people felt assured that Commodore was really back.
You may like
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
Commodore acquired for a ‘low seven figure’ price
New Commodore 64 Ultimate: The Best-Selling Home Computer Ever Is Back - YouTube
Watch On
In a quick follow-up to the 10K milestone Tweet, Commodore reminded its fans that “there’s still time to secure your spot in Batch 1 of the Commodore 64 Ultimate pre-orders over at https://www.commodore.net/ to make sure you’ll be among the first to receive yours this year.” Pricing for this FPGA-powered retro-futuristic machine featuring the “world's first transparent keyboard circuit board” starts from $299. Readers are reminded that the “Founders Edition will be a one-time run,” and we don’t have word on what will succeed it for latecomers – surely something very similar.Retro computing fans should be cheered by this latest Commodore milestone, even if they aren’t particularly interested in experiencing a modern C64. Remember, the new Commodore has quite boldly claimed that it will become a “Founder's Sandbox,” for new computer tech projects. Its roadmap will feature as many as 12 major releases over the next four years – which should be exciting for all computer enthusiasts.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (2)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
Commodore acquired for a ‘low seven figure’ price
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Remaking a Commodore 64 Datasette from 1982 using 1993 microcassette tech
Latest in Retro Gaming
Iconic Vectrex console reimagined for the modern day with OLED display, microSD, and wireless controllers
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
DOOM multiplayer tribute gets coded in 'pure SQL' and runs at 30FPS
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Latest in News
China's latest GPU arrives with claims of CUDA compatibility and RT support
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
2 Comments
Comment from the forums
Sluggotg
I will certainly enjoy mine when it gets shipped to me. It works with original disk drives and controllers. It has a cartridge port. It has HDMI output, (along with the other older video outputs). Zero Lag, It has all the modern connectors too USB A/C, Wi-Fi, Micro SD, Ethernet etc.
Reply
jackt
thats why other brands made amiga replicas, look like it sell!
Reply
View All 2 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.