Best early Target Circle Week deals to compete with Prime Day 2025 | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Best early Target Circle Week deals to compete with Prime Day: I'm tracking 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
A major shopping event launches at Target next month, but we've spotted some great early deals on iPads, PCs, and more.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
and
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 10:49 a.m. PT
Apple iPad Pro | for $900 (save $100)
Apple iPad Pro
for $900 (save $100)
View now View at Target Insta360 GO 3S | for $390 (save $40)
Insta360 GO 3S
for $390 (save $40)
View now View at Target Roborock Qrevo Pro robot vacuum and mop | for $600 (save $400)
Roborock Qrevo Pro robot vacuum and mop
for $600 (save $400)
View now View at Target Roku 32-inch smart TV | for $130 (save $20)
Roku 32-inch smart TV
for $130 (save $20)
View now View at Target HP Chromebook | for $260 (save $189)
HP Chromebook
for $260 (save $189)
View now View at Target
Apple iPad | for $300 (save $50)
Apple iPad
for $300 (save $50)
View now View at Target Beats Solo 4 headphones | for $130 (save $70)
Beats Solo 4 headphones
for $130 (save $70)
View now View at Target Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K | for $40 (save $20)
Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K
for $40 (save $20)
View now View at Target
Show more (3 items)
Amazon Prime Day is right around the corner, and Target will host its competing Target Circle Week sale from Sunday, Oct. 5,  through Oct. 11. If you're a Target Circle member, you can take advantage of Target's deals that are comparable to Amazon's.Also: Amazon October Prime Day: Everything you need to knowAhead of the sale, we found the best tech deals from Target, and plenty of the products we recommend are ones we've spent extensive time testing and reviewing. Here are the best Target deals you can find right now.Find Prime Day dealsBest Target deals to compete with Prime Day 2025
Apple iPad Pro for $900 (save $100)
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
Current price: $900 (10% off)Original price: $1,000Ahead of Amazon Prime Day, we've found a fair discount on an Apple iPad Pro (keeping in mind that Apple products are rarely on sale). If you're in the market for a powerful iPad suitable for creative tasks and productivity, this discounted model comes with an 11-inch display, M4 processor, and 256GB of storage.Review: I replaced my MacBook with an M4 iPad Pro and was less bothered than I expected
Show more
View now at Target
Insta360 GO 3S for $390 (save $40)
Insta360
Current price: $390 (9% off)Original price: $430This tiny, portable camera could be the perfect companion on your next holiday or adventure. Set with Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectivity, the Insta360 GO 3S camera is also waterproof and is able to record footage in 4K. You can now pick one up for less than $400.Review: This thumb-sized camera is my new 'must-have' for traveling
Show more
View now at Target
Roborock Qrevo Pro robot vacuum and mop for $600 (save $400)
Roborock
Current price: $600 (40% off)Original price: $1,000Our lives get busier by the year, and so if you want to reduce your workload at home, you might want to try out a robot vacuum. I've used a robot vacuum and mop system for years and find that being able to schedule a tidy and clean does reduce some of the mental workload. With $400 off the Roborock Qrevo Pro robot vacuum and mop, you might want to do the same.
Show more
View now at Target
Roku 32-inch smart TV for $130 (save $20)
Allison Murray/ZDNET
Current price: $130 (13% off)Original price: $150This is a budget-friendly TV deal for a model suitable for a bedroom or home office. I have one myself, and it's not too large at 32 inches, making it a decent option for the bedroom and casually watching Netflix or YouTube. The sound quality is better than I expected -- and at only $130, it's a bargain.
Show more
View now at Target
HP Chromebook for $260 (save $189)
HP
Current price: $260 (42% off)Original price: $449This early Target deal is one for students or those who want access to a sleek, portable laptop for occasional use. It's not the most powerful Chromebook on the market, true, but at $260, it's not a bad deal. This HP Chromebook comes with a 15.6-inch display, an Intel N200 processor, 8GB of RAM, and 64GB eMMC storage.
Show more
View now at Target
Apple iPad for $300 (save $50)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $300 (14% off)Original price: $349If you would like to explore how an Apple iPad can improve your workflow, be used in online day-to-day tasks, or for entertainment, you don't immediately have to opt for the latest and greatest flagship iPad. Consider this 11-inch, A16-powered, 128GB model instead, which is just under $300 and comes in a variety of colors. Review: I've tested every iPad sold by Apple right now - here's the model I recommend most
Show more
View now at Target
Beats Solo 4 headphones for $130 (save $70)
Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $130 (35% off)Original price: $200For only $130, you can pick up a pair of Beats Solo 4 headphones -- a popular option among our reviewers. These headphones provide excellent quality sound, spatial audio, and a comfortable fit. They also come in a range of colors. Review: Forget AirPods - these Beats headphones work just as well with iOS and Android
Show more
View now at Target
Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K for $40 (save $20)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $40 (33% off)Original price: $60While many TVs now come with smart features and apps giving you access to services including Netflix, Amazon Prime, and Spotify, this doesn't mean there isn't a market for streaming sticks. The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K, for example, provides access to more movies and TV shows, games, and even an Ambient Experience mode that displays artwork.
Show more
View now at Target
More early Target Circle Week dealsSamsung Galaxy Tab A9+: $159 (save $61): If you're in the market for an affordable tablet, you can enjoy 28% off the usual price for a Samsung Galaxy Tab A9+ with an 11-inch display and 64GB of storage. Apple iPad Mini: $400 (save $100): Alternatively, if you're an Apple fan, go for the $100 discount on the Apple iPad Mini, an 8.3-inch tablet powered by an A17 chip.Amazon Fire HD 8 Tablet: $65 (save $35): If you want something far cheaper for reading on holiday and basic tasks, you will pay only $65 for an Amazon Fire HD 8 tablet.Amazon Echo Show 5: $65 (save $25): An interesting smart home gadget we like is the Amazon Echo Show 5. This smart display, now on sale, can be used to interact with the Alexa voice assistant and display news, weather, music playlists, and more.Lenovo IdeaPad 1i laptop: $279 (save $120): If you want an entry-level laptop suitable for day-to-day tasks, consider this one -- it comes with a large 15.6-inch Full HD display.GoPro HERO: $200 (save $20): The discount isn't huge, but GoPro sales are few and far between. Save $20 on this popular vlogging action camera.Beats Studio Buds +: $100 (save $70): The Beats Studio Buds + are discreet, compact earbuds that pack quality sound into a small form factor. You can save $70 off the typical RRP.Razer Kaira HyperSpeed gaming headset: $100 (save $30): PlayStation 5 owners will find this headset appeals to them -- it has the same white finish as your favorite console, both quality audio and microphone functionality.Apple AirTag (4 Pack): $80 (save $20): Forever losing your keys? Consider picking up a pack of discounted Apple AirTag trackers to make it easier to find them again.FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? This year, Amazon's October Prime Day sale runs on Oct. 7 and Oct. 8. The annual sale will last for two days, and you can expect to see a range of deals on household items, electronics, gadgets, fashion, and more.When is Target Circle Week?Target Circle Week begins on Sunday, Oct. 5, and the sales event will run through Oct. 11.Are products really cheaper on Prime Day or during Target Circle Week? Historically, they can be. While some prices are inflated just prior to these events and then brought down to their original level in an effort to appear cheaper, there are still many genuine deals available on popular tech products.  How did we choose these October Prime Day deals?ZDNET authors only write about deals that interest us personally and include products that we own, have previously tested, or are on our own wishlists. Our experts look for deals that are at least 20% off (or are normally not on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal actually represents value for your money. We also explore customer reviews to find out what matters to those who already own and use the products and deals we're recommending.
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
Best October Prime Day deals under $100: My favorite early sales
Best Amazon Prime Day Apple deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts in October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use