Best Electric Lawn Mower - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Yard & Outdoors
Best Electric Lawn Mower: I Spent Months Mowing My Yard (and My Neighbors')
My wife says it's an obsession, but I say it's a hobby. See which electric lawn mower helped me achieve lawn perfection.
Our Experts
Written by
Andrew Collins
Article updated on August 19, 2025 at 4:37 PM PDT
Andrew Collins Contributor Andrew works in the hospitality sector, managing his own company that specializes in the training of hotel general managers. He also conducts financial, life safety and loss prevention audits for major hotel brands. Andrew has a Bachelor's Degree in finance from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. You can often find me perfecting my lawn care routine or toiling away on a home improvement project with two toddlers offering to help every step of the way. Expertise Yard care technology
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
I love taking pictures of my lawn -- maybe even more than of my kids. A hobby or obsession? Either way, a good-looking yard is important to me. My precious free time (not consumed by work and family obligations) is usually spent on lawn maintenance, with an embarrassing amount of additional hours spent researching different seeds, fertilizer and, most importantly, the right mowing equipment to achieve the perfect lawn.  Our Picks
Best overall electric mower The Milwaukee M18 Fuel 21-inch mower
Jump to details
$689 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best value and best for large yards Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch mower
Jump to details
$600 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best self-propulsion system
Toro Recycler 60V 22-inch mower
Jump to details
$680 at Lowe's
Jump to details
Best maneuverability and splurge pick
Stihl RMA 453 PV 21-inch mower
Jump to details
$1,180 at STIHL
Jump to details
YARD AND OUTDOORS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Beatbot AquaSense 2 Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $1,099 (save $500)
Traeger Grills Pro 22 Electric Wood Pellet Grill and Smoker:  $389 (save $161)
Ego Power Plus LM2135SP Self-Propelled Cordless Electric Lawn Mower:  $599 (save $151)
Aiper Scuba S1 Cordless Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $500 (save $200)
Karcher K1700 2125-PSI 1.46-GPM Pressure Washer:  $173 (save $58) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Electric Lawn Mower: I Spent Months Mowing My Yard (and My Neighbors')
Best electric lawn mowers of 2025
Best overall electric mower
Best value and best for large yards
Best self-propulsion system
Best maneuverability and splurge pick
Electric lawn mowers compared
Other electric lawn mowers we tested
Factors to consider when choosing an electric lawn mower
How we test electric lawn mowers
I spent months testing nine of the best electric lawn mowers on the market from top brands, including Milwaukee, Stihl, Ryobi, Craftsman and EgoPower. I cut multiple acres of grass with each mower (mine and my two neighbors’ yards). I tested each mower uphill, on flat ground and with different grass types. As the husband of CNET's home tech editor, I've had an inside look at how expert reviewers assess the best new products and I knew this was my opportunity to share my expertise and passion for lawn care. I chose not to get paid for this article, and an editor who's not my wife also reviewed it.I found these mowers to be a cut above the rest.
My backyard after cutting with the Milwaukee M18 Fuel. I’m one of those people who takes pictures of their grass -- possibly even more than of their kids. I haven’t gone so far as to hang any of these pictures over the living room mantle, but let's not rule anything out just yet. Andrew Collins/CNETBest electric lawn mowers of 2025
Andrew Collins/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Andrew Collins/CNET
Best overall electric mower
The Milwaukee M18 Fuel 21-inch mower
9.1
/10
SCORE
Pros
Consistently delivers a clean, even cut -- even in tough conditions
Fast and powerful, delivering “gas-like” performance
Great performance at lower cutting heights, down to 1 inch
Commercial-grade build quality
Cons
Expensive -- one of the highest-priced models tested
Requires two batteries to operate, increasing downtime between charges
Variable Speed Self-Propulsion lever is uncomfortable to use for long periods
The Milwaukee M18 Fuel 21-inch consistently delivered the best cutting experience over all other mowers tested. The build quality immediately stands out right from unboxing, from the 15-gauge steel deck to the premium feel of the handlebar and batteries. It’s a fast, powerful machine that delivers the most “gas-like" feel when set against its competitors. In other words, if all nine mowers had a backyard brawl after we humans went to sleep, the Milwaukee would be the heavy favorite to walk away victorious.Why I like it: In the harshest conditions, after heavy rains had delayed my normal cutting schedule and the grass was overlong and thick, the Milwaukee consistently delivered a clean cut time after time. Other tested mowers needed multiple passes to achieve an acceptable cut in these conditions, oftentimes bogging down and coming to a complete standstill, while the Milwaukee would power through with ease. Under more optimal conditions, making a 1-inch cut, the Milwaukee M18 FEUL continued to excel. The evenness of the cut produced by the Milwaukee, especially when deploying the high lift mode, was superior to other mowers.The variable Speed Self-Propulsion system isn’t the most comfortable design -- the lever can cause hand and thumb fatigue over time -- but it’s extremely powerful, reaching speeds up to 4 mph. The LED lights are also no gimmick, delivering plenty of visibility to keep mowing well into dusk.The electric mower segment is highly competitive, and we’ve tested some really good mowers over the course of this review. That said, when my testing was over and the grass needed a good mow, the Milwaukee was always the first mower I would reach for.Who it’s best for: Those looking for a commercial-grade machine and a commercial-grade cut will be extremely satisfied with the Milwaukee's results. The M18 REDLITHIUM 12.0 batteries more than hold their own against the competition, delivering impressive cut times even when operating in high lift mode and utilizing self-propulsion often. Who shouldn't get it: If you're looking for the best value or a wider cutting radius, the Milwaukee may not be the choice for you. The Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch mower provides a wider cut, reducing your overall cut time. Its cut quality and overall performance are impressive at a price that’s several hundred dollars less.  ... Show more
Get it now
$689 at Amazon
$1,000 at Northern Tool + Equipment
$1,100 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Warranty
3-year tool, 3-year battery (consumer)Battery
2 18V 12.0AhRuntime
Up to 60 minutesRecharge
130-min rapid chargerWeight
80.6 lbsCutting height
1.0" - 4.0"Cutting options
7-positionDeck material
15 gauge steelBlade length
21"Turbo/Boost mode
YesHeadlights
Front and side LED lights
Add to compare
Andrew Collins/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Andrew Collins/CNET
Best value and best for large yards
Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch mower
8.7
/10
SCORE
Pros
Widest cut of mowers tested at 25 inches, for faster mowing
Above average fit and finish compared to other mowers in its segment
Dual-port AutoSwitch technology allows a second battery to automatically take over when the first is drained
Cons
The automatic handoff from a depleted battery to a full one is a bit jarring, with a noticeable performance change
Sometimes cumbersome to maneuver when using the rear wheels lock (which prevents roll-back when disengaging self-propulsion)
Why I like it: The Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch Dual Blade Mower is truly a good value. I’m surprised at how inexpensive it is considering its performance. It boasts several well-thought-out design elements, separating it from the majority of competitors in the electric mower segment. The Greenworks' 25-inch cutting circumference reduces overall mowing times, the dual battery bay with AutoSwitch Technology allows you to keep mowing without swapping batteries and the overall cut quality exceeds that of many of its competitors. Despite its increased width, the mower is very compact and easily maneuverable over hills and around trees and fences. Who it’s best for: If you're in the market for a high-quality mower and don’t want to break the bank, this mower fits the bill. It checks a lot of boxes for what an ideal electric mower should be. If you have a larger yard, the extra-wide cut paired with above-average battery life, will help you get the job done quicker than any of the other mowers tested in this review. Who shouldn't get it: I found the wheel locking feature when disengaging self-propulsion annoying. When you want to reverse the mower to make a turn, you have to either push the mower forward or wait a few seconds to disengage the wheel lock. If you have a narrower yard that requires frequent quick turns, the wheel locking could get old in a hurry.  ... Show more
Get it now
$600 at Amazon
$600 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Warranty
4-year tool, 4-year batteryBattery
2 60V 4.0AhRuntime
Up to 80 minutesRecharge
80 minutes for 2 batteries with Dual ChargerWeight
70.6 lbsCutting height
1.3" - 4.0"Cutting options
7-positionDeck material
Steel stampedBlade length
Two 13"Turbo/Boost mode
YesHeadlights
High-intensity LED
Add to compare
Andrew Collins/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Andrew Collins/CNET
Best self-propulsion system
Toro Recycler 60V 22-inch mower
8.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
Personal Pace self-propel system makes the mower very easy to maneuver
Self-propulsion system makes it easier to cut uphill
Good cut quality, even without a turbo or boost mode
Cons
Battery charge times are excessively long at 3.5 hours
No single-point blade height adjustment feature
Battery cover cracks easily
Why I like it: The Toro Recycler 60V 22-inch has the best self-propulsion system of any of the tested mowers. Despite being on the heavier side, the Personal Pace system from Toro makes pushing and maneuvering this mower almost effortless. The cut quality is visually exceptional, even without a turbo or boost mode. There are some drawbacks, but overall, the Toro is a solid mower for the price. Who it’s best for: If struggling to push a mower on a hot, humid day sounds like a cruel form of punishment, the Toro has your back. It won't make it any less hot or humid, but it’ll feel more like taking a leisurely stroll than wrestling a hunk of metal across the yard. A minor win, but you have to take them where you can get them. If you have a sloped or hilly yard, the Personal Pace system is destined to be your new summertime buddy. Who shouldn't get it: While the Toro stood out for its Personal Pace propulsion system, other design elements are less welcome. The Toro is the only tested mower without a single-point blade height adjustment mechanism. Think back to the old mowers from your childhood, requiring individual wheel height adjustments by moving a thin bar of aluminum on each wheel, and that’s what you’ll be signing up for with this Toro. It’s not necessarily a deal-breaker, but not something you would expect from an otherwise premium product. If you need to change blade heights often when cutting different sections of your yard, the Milwaukee and Greenworks offer a much more seamless approach in both quality and ease of use.  ... Show more
Get it now
$680 at Lowe's
$630 at ACE Hardware
$650 at Toro
Specs & Configurations
Warranty
2-year (tool), 3-year (battery)Battery
60V 8.0AhRuntime
Up to 53 minutesRecharge
3.5 hoursWeight
87 lbsCutting height
1.0" - 4.0"Cutting options
9-positionDeck material
15 gauge steelBlade length
22.5"Turbo/Boost mode
NoHeadlights
Dual LED
Add to compare
Andrew Collins/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Andrew Collins/CNET
Best maneuverability and splurge pick
Stihl RMA 453 PV 21-inch mower
9.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
The mono-comfort handlebar and height adjustment features are the most ergonomically friendly of all tested mowers
Three cut mode options: ECO, Standard and Auto Boost
The polymer grass bag catcher, with indicator for when full, is class-leading
Cons
20-inch blade is smaller than most competitors
Highest MSRP price of the tested mowers, with only 1 battery included
Battery runtime is disappointing, especially when using Auto Boost mode
Why I like it: The Stihl RMA 453 PV 21-inch is the Ferrari of electric lawn mowers. It's buttery smooth while operating, which is not an adjective you’d expect to use for any lawn mower. Every aspect of this mower is incredibly well-designed. The mono-comfort handlebar, a feature not found on any of the other mowers tested, makes it easier to empty the polymer grass bag and to store the mower. A well-designed electronic control panel shows real-time battery levels and makes switching between three cutting modes easy.Because of its polymer design, the Stihl is lightweight -- at just 64 pounds -- and easy to control and maneuver. Overall, this is a premium piece of lawn-mowing technology that’s frankly in a different league than all of its competitors. Oh, and it cuts grass exceptionally well, too. Who it’s best for: The Stihl brand has a well-earned reputation for making quality, reliable products, and the Stihl RMA 453 PV 21-inch is no exception. If price isn’t a leading factor in your mower search, the Stihl offers many beneficial design elements that just aren’t found on the other mowers we’ve tested. The polymer materials are much lighter and easier to clean than steel or standard plastics. The grass bag has a visual indicator to let you know when it’s full and the unique mono-comfort handlebar design further reduces weight and makes for a smaller storage footprint.Who shouldn't get it: The Stihl may be the Ferrari of electric mowers, but certain jobs need a work truck, not a sports car. The Stihl can get bogged down by high, thick grassy conditions that the Milwaukee manages without strain. If you’re maintaining a thick, dense lawn at a low cut height, I recommend a mower with more umph, such as the Milwaukee M18 Fuel.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,180 at STIHL
$1,180 at ACE Hardware
Specs & Configurations
Warranty
3-year (personal household use)Battery
36V 7.8AhRuntime
.22 acresRecharge
1 Hour AL 301 Rapid Battery ChargeWeight
64 lbsCutting height
0.8" - 4.0"Cutting options
7-positionDeck material
PlasticBlade length
20" multi-bladeTurbo/Boost mode
3 modes: Eco, Standard, BoostHeadlights
No
Add to compareElectric lawn mowers compared
ModelWarrantyBatteryRuntimeRecharge timeWeightCutting height (inches)Cutting optionsDeck materialBlade length (inches)Turbo/Boost modeHeadlights Milwaukee M18 Fuel 21-inch Self-Propelled Dual Battery Mower 3 Year (Tool), 3 Year (Battery) Consumer(2) 18V 12.0AhUp to 60 minutes130 min Rapid Charger80.6 lbs1-47-Position15 Gauge Steel21YesFront and Side LED lightsGreenworks Pro 60V 25-inch Dual Blade 4 Year (Tool), 4 Years (Battery)(2) 60V 4.0AhUp to 80 minutes80 minutes for 2 batteries with Dual Charger70.6 lbs.1.3-47-PositionSteel Stamped(Two) 13YesHigh-intensity LEDToro Recycler 60V 22-inch 2 Year (Tool), 3 Year (Battery)60V 8.0AhUp to 53 minutes3.5 Hours87 lbs.1-49-Position15 Gauge Steel22.5NoDual LEDStihl RMA 453 PV 21-inch 3 Year Personal Household Use36V 7.8Ah.22 Acres1 Hour AL 301 Rapid Battery Charger64 lbs0.8-47-PositionPlastic203 Modes (Eco, Standard, Boost)NoRyobi HP Brushless 21-inch Multi Blade 5 Year (Tool), 3 Year (Battery)(2) 40V 6.0AhUp to 75 minutes1 Hour w/ Rapid Charger79.2 lbs.1-410-PositionComposite(Two) 21YesHigh-intensity LEDEgo Power+ 21-inch Select Cut XP 5 Year Limited (Tool), 3 Year Limited (Battery)(1) 56V 10.0.AhUp to 75 minutes60 minutes w/ Power+ Turbo Charger75.35 lbs.1.5-48-PositionPlastic20.5NoLED LightsEcho DLM-2100SP 5 Year (Tool), 2 Year (Battery) Consumer(2) 56V 5.0AhUp to 70 minutes75 min w/ Rapid Charger69.25 lbs1.4-47-Position16 Gauge Steel21YesLEDGreen Machine 62V 23-inch RWD 5 Year (Tool), 3 Year (Battery) Consumer(2) 62V 4.0AhUp to 45 minutes75 minutes w/ Rapid Charger75.84 lbs1.25-3.756-Position16 Gauge Steel22NoLEDCraftsman V20 20-inch 3 Year Limited Warranty(2) 20V 5.0AhUp to 50 minutesN/A63 lbs.1.75-3.55-PositionPlastic20NoNo
Other electric lawn mowers we tested
Ryobi HP Brushless 21-inch Multiblade
Andrew Collins/CNETThe Ryobi is the ultimate jack of all trades, master of none among electric lawn mowers. While it doesn’t stand out as the best when it comes to any particular feature or category, it also doesn’t score poorly on any metric. Battery life, cut quality and maneuverability are all acceptable, and the Ryobi is a solid all-rounder for the price. You could do better, but also a whole lot worse when choosing an electric mower. Pros:No wheel lock when disengaging self-propulsionPrice to value is competitiveConsBattery life lowered substantially when using Turbo mode for extended periodsDoesn’t include a dual battery charger like some other brands doErgonomics for self-propulsion could be improved. Not the most comfortableEGO Power Plus 21-inch Select Cut XP
Andrew Collins/CNETThe Ego Power Plus 21-inch Select Cut XP was the biggest surprise during testing. The Ego brand is highly regarded in the electric power equipment market, and this Ego does indeed have some excellent features and design elements to boast about. Three different blade options are included in the box, something no other competitor offers. The single-point height adjustment is really well thought out; it’s IPX4-rated for a bit of weatherproofing and the phone holder is a nice touch.However, in our testing, the Ego cut quality just wasn’t up to the standard laid down by its competitors. There was a noticeable mohawk effect evident on each pass, leaving strips of uneven grass on the edges of the cut. The Ego wasn’t alone in this regard, but many other mowers offer a High Lift, Boost or Turbo mode to reduce this effect and provide a more even cut, a feature that this Ego doesn’t offer. Additionally, while it's an attractive machine, the Ego seems longer and wider than it really needs to be, affecting maneuverability around trees and other obstacles, while delivering a less even cut on sloped yards.
With the Ego Power Plus 21-inch Select Cut XP, each pass left a visible mohawk effect, with strips of uncut grass along the edges. Andrew Collins/CNETPros:Three different lower blades included for different cutting optionsExcellent lever for easily changing cut positionOverall fit and finish of the mower is ahead of many competitorsConsCut quality is disappointingly uneven, with lots of mohawking on the edgesNo Turbo or Boost modeBulkier than many competitors, making it less maneuverableEcho DLM-2100SPThe Echo DLM-2100SP has a lot of similarities to the higher-rated Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch Dual Blade mower, which is both good and bad. Both have excellent self-propulsion controls, as well as dual battery bays and excellent battery life. Not as good, the Echo, like the Greenworks, has the annoying wheel lock “feature” when disengaging the Self Propulsion system, requiring you to either wait a few seconds or manually push the mower forward to be able to reverse direction. The biggest differentiator between the Echo and Greenworks is the cutting radius, with the Greenworks offering the wider cut at 25 inches versus 21 inches for the Echo. Considering the Greenworks is $140 cheaper, it’s hard to recommend the Echo over it. That said, the Echo is the sharper-looking of the two, if looks are important to you.
Andrew Collins/CNETPros:Creates a nice stripping patternLightweight, with good propulsion levers and speed controlGood battery level feedback indicatorsCons:Grass blade lift could be better, especially when mowing downhillDeck bottoms out easily at minimum cut heightWheel lock when disengaging self-propulsion is very annoyingGreen Machine 62V 23-inch RWDGreen Machine is one of the lesser-known brands tested on this list, but I wouldn’t be surprised to see that change in the years to come. The Green Machine 62V 23” has a lot to offer on a price-to-value scale, but a few key drawbacks held it from ranking higher on this list. The main drawback, far and away, was battery life. While the 45-minute stated runtime is theoretically attainable, use of the Self Propulsion system greatly diminishes that time. While most of the tested mowers on this list could cut my sloped,  two-thirds of an acre yard in just two or three battery cycles, the Green Machine required four to five cycles. With a battery recharge time of 75 minutes, this made for a very long and tedious testing experience. If primarily used on smaller, flatter lawns, the Green Machine is a solid budget option to consider.
Andrew Collins/CNETPros:Good build qualityAttractive designCompetitively pricedCons:Not as maneuverable as other options in this price segmentNot great lift from the blade, leaving the cut shaggy at timesEasy to accidentally change the speed when turning the mowerSelf-propel drains the battery quicklyCraftsman V20 20-inchThe Craftsman V20 20-inch was the lightest of our tested mowers, and also the cheapest based on MSRP. It is easy to push and provides surprisingly long battery life for its smaller-sized battery, which helps with storage. While these are all great features, it's still difficult to recommend the Craftsman due to its lack of power and subpar cut quality. Its self-propulsion system is basic, with little variable speed control, with a simple pull handle either engaging or disengaging the system. The mower is also the least powerful of those tested. It can handle light trimming just fine, but high, thick grass is more than it can comfortably manage.The Craftsman V20 would be best suited to small, flat yards, much like the Green Machine mentioned above. But there are better mowers that can be purchased for just a bit more money if you need self-propulsion. If you’re after the Craftsman’s lightweight design and compact size, the non Self-Propulsion version -- $120 cheaper -- would likely be a better fit.
Andrew Collins/CNETPros:Light and compact, easy to maneuver and storeLowest MSRP of any of the tested mowersGood battery life from 4.0Ah batteriesCons:Not very powerful, with marginal cut qualityVery basic self-propulsion system, with limited speed adjustmentWhat we updated: May 2025: We changed how we test electric lawn mowers, updating the testing methodology and assigning a new tester and author.June 2025: We retested these electric lawn mowers for consideration on our list: Milwaukee M18 Fuel 21-inch; Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch; Toro Recycler 60V 22-inch; Stihl RMA 453 PV 21-inch; Ryobi HP Brushless 21-inch; Ego Power Plus 21-inch; Echo DLM-2100SP; Green Machine 62V 23-inch; Craftsman V20 20-inch.July 2025: We retested the Ego Power Plus 21-inch 56-volt and removed it as the best overall pick.July 2025: We recategorized Greenworks 25-inch 60-volt from the “best for consistent lawn maintenance” to the “best value.” July 2025: We removed the Greenworks 19-inch 40-volt and the Litheli U20LM00-0A120 13-inch 20-volt from this list.  July 2025: We removed the Dewalt DCMWP233U2 21.5-inch 20-volt from this list because it's currently out of stock. August 2025: The former authors’ bylines (Steve Conaway, Chris Wedell and Macy Meyer) were removed from this page following new testing and evaluation. Factors to consider when choosing an electric lawn mower
Charging timesDepending on the size of your lawn, battery charging times can either be of minimal or great importance when selecting a mower. Most electric mowers are able to handle close to a quarter acre in a single battery charge. If you have a larger yard, you'll want a mower that comes with multiple batteries or has very quick charge times on individual batteries.Cut qualityMany factors can influence the cut quality a mower delivers during each mowing session. Grass type, height and density can lead to vastly different cutting experiences from one yard to the next. When mulch-cutting a yard, the cut quality will be better when cutting just one inch of grass compared to multiple inches. Higher, denser grass may require you to utilize a mower's boost or turbo modes, which improves the cut quality, but can reduce battery run times -- sometimes drastically. The greater the lift a lawn mower blade can generate, the better the cut will be. Poor lift leaves you with uncut blades with every pass, resulting in a shaggy-looking yard. Many mower brands sell specialized high-lift blades to prevent this issue, but these blades often result in lower battery run times.Price Like most material purchases, price to value will play a significant role in choosing the best mower. While the Milwaukee M18 Fuel is rated as our best overall mower, there are lawns that don’t require such a large investment. Those with smaller yards or those whose primary concern is getting the grass cut as easily and painlessly as possible, but not necessarily looking for the most premium cut quality, would be wise to purchase a more economical electric lawn mower such as the Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch Dual Blade. ManeuverabilityA mower that's easy to maneuver and doesn't make it feel like you added an extra gym session to your weekly routine is highly important, especially for those with larger, sloped landscapes. Being able to cut close to fence edges and around trees further reduces time spent trimming and weeding those hard-to-reach areas.  Cutting heightMowers can have vastly different blade height options to choose between, and these can be a significant factor in choosing the mower that's right for you. While most mowers all have a maximum cut height that's close to 4 inches, some can cut as low as 0.8 inches, while others may only cut as low as 1.75 inches. If maintaining a close cropped yard is important to you, paying close attention to these cutting height positions will help you pick the right mower for your needs. How we test electric lawn mowers
Testing was conducted over a four-month span from the beginning of April through July. All mowers were tested on the same lawn, under similar mowing conditions. The grass I cut is on a moderately sloped two-thirds acre lot. Early cuts were made on primarily a bluegrass/perennial rye grass lawn with a transition to a Bermuda lawn as the season changed.
I used my smartwatch to record the distance and duration of each mower’s battery cycle. This image is a visual look of my front yard.  Screenshot by Andrew Collins/CNETEach mow was tracked using a Garmin Epix Pro smartwatch to record distance and duration of each battery cycle. We used this data, along with a visual inspection of cut quality, and evaluated the mowing experience subjectively based on overall maneuverability and the performance of each mower’s self-propulsion system. Each mower was then compared to the others I tested and given a score out of 10 across these seven categories:Price to valueCut quality Run time vs. charge timeManeuverability Self-propulsion control and ease of useDesign and build qualityOverall user satisfaction rating
A visual look at my back and side yards, using my smartwatch.  Screenshot by Andrew Collins/CNETPrice to value is based on each mower's sale price at the time of review versus its overall satisfaction rating with the mower over the course of testing. The Greenworks was easily the winner in this category, being the third highest-rated mower in overall satisfaction and the cheapest to purchase. While the Craftsman had a low sales price, this wasn’t enough to overcome its low overall satisfaction rating.  Price to value MowerScoreRank Greenworks ($599) 9.51stMilwaukee ($999) 8.52ndToro ($599)
8.33rdEcho ($549) 8.04thStihl ($1,100) 7.85thRyobi ($649) 7.56thGreen Machine ($499) 7.37thEgo ($649) 7.08thCraftsman ($429) 6.59th
I evaluated cut quality by how well the yard looked after each mow, as well as how the mower handled the varying conditions thrown at it. Missed grass blades, especially those requiring second passes to achieve a satisfactory cut, lowered the score. The mower bogging down or not being able to achieve the desired cut height would also lower the score. While the Stihl provided an exceptional cut in easy to moderate conditions, the Milwaukee’s ability to handle extreme conditions with ease, especially at minimum cutting heights, propelled it to the top of the leaderboard in this category. Cut quality MowerScoreRank Milwaukee 9.81stStihl 9.32ndToro 8.83rdGreenworks 8.54thEcho 8.35thRyobi 8.06thEgo 7.87thGreen Machine 7.58thCraftsman 7.39th
Testing the Greenworks Pro 60V 25-inch Dual-Blade. Andrew Collins/CNETIt’s one thing to have solid battery life, but if you're dealing with larger yards that require more than a battery or two to complete a mowing, battery charge times can be just as important. The Toro and Craftsman were examples of excessively long charge times, greatly diminishing the value in using these mowers on larger lots. Both the Greenworks and Echo demonstrated an ideal mix of good battery longevity with relatively quick recharges. Run time vs. charge time MowerScoreRank Greenworks 9.51stEcho 9.32ndMilwaukee 8.53rdStihl 8.34thRyobi 8.05thEgo 7.86thGreen Machine 7.57thCraftsman 7.38thToro 7.09th
Maneuverability scoring is based on how easily a mower could be pushed across the lawn, factoring in turns and cutting along fences, trees and other obstacles. The rear wheel locking when disengaging self-propulsion greatly affected the overall maneuverability of the Greenworks, Echo, Craftsman and Green Machine, while the Stihl's polymer design and flawless ergonomics scored highest in the class.  Maneuverability
MowerScoreRank Stihl 9.51stToro 9.32ndRyobi 8.83rdMilwaukee 8.54thEgo 8.35thGreenworks 7.86thEcho 7.57thCraftsman 7.38thGreen Machine 7.09th
A well-integrated, easy-to-deploy self-propulsion system can make mowing a near effortless experience, while an underpowered self-propulsion system with bad ergonomics and poor speed control can make the mowing experience very tedious. The Toro and Stihl excelled with their designs, offering easy to use systems that improved the overall mowing experience.
Andrew Collins/CNET Self-propulsion control and ease of use MowerScoreRank Toro 9.51stStihl 9.32ndMilwaukee 9.03rdRyobi 8.84thEgo 8.55thEcho 7.86thGreenworks 7.57thCraftsman 7.38thGreen Machine 7.09th
While taking vastly different approaches in design and materials, the Stihl and Milwaukee mowers stand out from a design and build standpoint. The Stihl's polymer construction provides a strong, yet lightweight frame that's easy to clean and maintain. The Milwaukee is more rugged and it feels ready to take a head-on collision from a rhino and keep on mowing.  Design and build quality MowerScoreRank Stihl 10.01stMilwaukee 9.52ndGreenworks 9.03rdRyobi 8.84thEgo 8.55thEcho 8.36thToro 8.07thGreen Machine 7.58thCraftsman 7.39th
Andrew Collins/CNETDuring the testing process, I also had friends, family, and neighbors try out different mowers and share their feedback. These scores reflect their impressions combined with my own hands-on experience. Think of it as a "which mower would I want to borrow today" test. Overall user satisfaction rating MowerScoreRank Milwaukee 9.81stStihl 9.32ndGreenworks 9.03rdToro 8.54thEcho 8.35thRyobi 8.06thEgo 7.87thGreen Machine 7.38thCraftsman 7.09th
I took the scores from each testing category above, then averaged each into one final score. Overall scores MowerScoreRank Milwaukee
9.11stStihl
9.02ndGreenworks
8.73rdToro
8.54thRyobi
8.35thEcho
8.26thEgo
7.97thGreen Machine
7.38thCraftsman
7.19th
Electric lawn mower FAQs
Is an electric mower better than a gas mower?
Electric and gas mowers both come with unique pros and cons. While gas mowers can often be cheaper, more powerful and better suited for large yards, electric mowers can be quieter, easier to maneuver and generally easier to use and store. Electric mowers are typically considered more environmentally friendly, too.
Are battery electric lawn mowers the same as corded electric lawn mowers?
While both battery and electric mowers use electricity to operate, they're not the same as corded electric lawn mowers. While battery electric lawn mowers are generally more expensive than their corded counterparts, battery lawn mowers provide a much superior cutting experience since you aren’t tethered to a cord and outlet.
What is the best electric lawn mower?
In our testing, the Milwaukee M18 Fuel 21-inch is the best electric mower overall.
What's the best time of year to buy an electric lawn mower?
Late summer into early fall is typically a good time to buy a new electric mower. Older models are often discounted to clear inventory for new models soon to be released.
Is it safe to mow wet grass with an electric mower?
It is not safe to mow wet grass with an electric mower for numerous reasons. While the risk of electrocution is low, a wet lawn can cause damage to your mower. There's also an increased likelihood of slipping on wet turf while mowing.
How long does an electric lawn mower last?
Electric mowers themselves can easily last five to 10 years, though individual batteries will likely have a much shorter life, depending on usage and storage conditions.
Can I wash or hose down my electric lawn mower?
While different mowers will have different IPX ratings (the measurement of water resistance), hosing down an electric mower can damage its electronics. Using a leaf blower to clean the mower's deck is a much safer alternative.
What are the drawbacks of electric mowers?
Electric mowers can be more expensive than their gas counterparts -- and sometimes less powerful. Battery range isn’t a major factor for average-sized lawns (about half an acre), but it could be a drawback for yards larger than an acre.
What are the benefits of an electric lawn mower?
There are many benefits to electric lawn mowers. They're generally lighter, easier to start and maintain and quieter than their gas counterparts.
About the Author
Andrew Collins Contributor Andrew Collins Contributor
Andrew works in the hospitality sector, managing his own company that specializes in the training of hotel general managers. He also conducts financial, life safety and loss prevention audits for major hotel brands. Andrew has a Bachelor's Degree in finance from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. You can often find me perfecting my lawn care routine or toiling away on a home improvement project with two toddlers offering to help every step of the way.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.