Real Estate - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Business
Real Estate
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Commercial real estate gets its shot at TV stardom. Will audiences tune in?
4 min read
We moved from Los Angeles to Milwaukee. Our friends were surprised, but our only regret is that we didn't do it sooner.
4 min read
Our housing costs tripled when we moved to be near family. It was worth it.
We bought a more expensive house and our mortgage tripled when we moved from suburban Ohio to North Carolina to live near family. It's worth it.
4 min read
James Rodriguez
The decline of nepo homebuyers is an ominous sign for America's real estate market
The bank of mom and dad isn't what it used to be. The number of first-time homebuyers with family help is shrinking, which points to bigger problems.
11 min read
Robert Redford sold his last California property in 2024 for $4.65 million to spend more time in New Mexico and Utah
Actor Robert Redford and his wife Sibylle Szaggars Redford sold several properties recently.
3 min read
America's homebuilders think the housing market is approaching a turning point
The National Association of Homebuilders thinks the US housing market is on the verge of a major pivot as mortgage rates edge down amid rate-cut hopes.
3 min read
The 10 most affordable states in the US in 2025 — and the 10 least affordable
US News & World Report ranked all 50 states by affordability by looking at each state's housing affordability and cost of living.
4 min read
Mortgage regulator Bill Pulte has posted at least 13 agency orders on his personal X account
Bill Pulte has posted at least 13 agency orders on his personal X account. They don't appear to be posted publicly anywhere else.
5 min read
A billionaire heir built one of America's largest homes. His bitter divorce means his $175 million mansion is for sale.
Tony Pritzker, an heir to the Hyatt fortune, and Jeanne Pritzker built a huge, one-of-a-kind house in LA's hills. It's for sale for $175 million following their split.
5 min read
I visited the sprawling 'metroburb' where 'Severance' is filmed. It's a 2 million-square-foot town under one roof.
"Severance" just won 8 Emmy Awards. Bell Works, the real office complex that doubles as Lumon on the show, is redefining what an office can be.
13 min read
We bought a fixer-upper in a coastal Connecticut town. In a year, we built a suburban life that's so good I don't miss NYC.
After living in New York City in our 20s, we bought a fixer-upper in the coastal town of Greenwich, Connecticut. I've loved spending my 30s in the suburbs.
5 min read
They hadn't planned on buying property. Then came kids and a tiny house in the Philippines.
Dmitrii Stepanov always figured it made more sense to rent and invest than to buy a house. "But kids change everything," he told Business Insider.
5 min read
We spent 6 weeks in Mexico to see if we could handle living abroad. It was an eye-opening trip.
We left the United States to try living abroad in Mexico. After learning some hard lessons, we realized we do want to be full-time digital nomads.
5 min read
Desperate sellers are slashing prices and offering perks. Here are 4 deals home buyers can ask for.
Homebuyers have the upper hand in the real estate market. Here's how to take advantage and negotiate a deal or a better rate.
4 min read
I left my federal job and moved my family to Mexico for a one-year career break. Our passive income made it possible, but others can do it too.
Former NIH scientist, Daniel Dulebohn, relocated his family to Mexico for a one-year career break after he faced job insecurity at the NIH.
6 min read
Look inside Institut auf dem Rosenberg, an elite boarding school in Switzerland that costs over $200,000 a year
Institut auf dem Rosenberg, a private, international boarding school in Switzerland, has dorms with hardwood floors and en-suite marble bathrooms.
6 min read
We thought moving from California to Tennessee would save us money. The reality wasn't so simple — and we miss the West Coast.
Our family left Southern California and moved to rural Tennessee to save money and be near family. Prices are still high, and it hasn't been worth it.
5 min read
Gen Z grads are flocking to college towns — here's where they're thriving
A move to the big city after graduation isn't necessarily in the best interest of Gen Z grads. An analysis shows the best places for Gen Z are college towns.
5 min read
I thought moving to Portugal would be a dream come true. When the reality wasn't perfect, we found our home in Colombia.
My husband and I always wanted to live in Europe, but Portugal didn't make us happy as young parents. We moved to Bogota, Colombia, and feel at home.
5 min read
I paid $260 for a night at a Florida Gilded Age hotel loved by the Vanderbilts. It felt like I'd traveled through time.
Opening in 1897, the Belleview Hotel quickly became a favorite for America's elites, hosting families like the Vanderbilts, DuPonts, and Fords.
11 min read
Banking on a rate cut to make housing more affordable? Think again.
Rate cuts are probably coming, but according to Morgan Stanley, that doesn't mean that mortgage rates will fall and spur new home buying activity.
2 min read
A semi-retired baby-boomer couple who collect $3,300 a month in Social Security sold their home to rent and travel the world
Tom and Jeanne Skellan sold their home in Utah and moved to a rental house in Arizona to be close to their family. They also are traveling more.
5 min read
Cape Cod has an affordable housing problem. Could taxing the wealthy fix it?
Cape Cod, Massachusetts, is a well-to-do vacation destination. Since it has an affordable housing crisis, it's considering taxing the rich via real estate.
4 min read
We moved into a tiny house in a small Wyoming town. It was dreamy at first, but we just feel stuck 5 years later.
At first, going from living in a van to buying and living in a tiny home in a small town was great. Years later, we've got big problems and regrets.
5 min read
We moved to Malta 3 years ago. As Americans, living here has made our retirement dreams come true on a tight budget.
We're Americans who moved to Malta in our 70s to improve our retirement years. Our lifestyle, healthy diet, and healthcare are great and affordable.
5 min read
A new study ranks the happiest states in the US. These 10 states were ranked the lowest.
WalletHub ranked the happiest US states based on factors such as emotional and physical well-being. West Virginia and Louisiana were among the least happy.
4 min read
I'm a 28-year-old who bought an apartment in NYC. It was easier than I expected.
Like many other Gen Z homeowners, I bought my NYC apartment as a single buyer. Affordability is a major issue for Gen Z, but here's how I handled it.
11 min read
We gave up our dream home in Dallas for my career in New York. After just one year, we realized it was a mistake.
My husband and I left our Texas dream home for a New York job opportunity. After I got laid off, I realized we'd made a mistake, and we moved back.
5 min read
9 things I miss about living in Austin after moving to New York 6 years ago — and 3 things I'm happy I left behind
While I miss the tacos, nature, and outdoor activities in the Texas capital, I'm glad to be out of the scorching heat of Austin.
8 min read
I moved to a smaller city for a lower cost of living. My money goes much further, but I've been struggling for 2 years.
I moved from Madison, Wisconsin, to Iowa City, Iowa, to save money and lower my cost of living. I did, but I've struggled for years to make friends.
5 min read
A former Facebook exec wants to make offices worth the commute — by running them more like hotels
Future-of-work expert Annie Dean has a new job at real-estate giant CBRE. She imagines offices feeling "a little bit more like hotels."
4 min read
Massive AI salaries and RTO are fueling a real estate boom in San Francisco: 'It's going to rain money'
AI workers are inflaming prices and rents across the Bay Area. Real estate agents say they tend to be more 'cautious' than buyers in past tech booms.
5 min read
A Gen Zer from the Philippines studied overseas, hustled through side gigs, and built a tiny house she now runs as an Airbnb
She designed the house to be Instagrammable, but soon found most guests hardly used their phones while staying there.
5 min read
My mom lives with me, my husband, and our 10 kids. My family loves multigenerational living.
After my dad died it became evident that my mom couldn't live on her own. Multigenerational living has been beneficial for all of us.
4 min read
The 20 best US suburbs to live in 2025 if you want to escape the city
Niche ranked the best suburbs considering factors like cost of living, crime rates, access to bars and restaurants, and ethnic diversity.
13 min read
Parents are buying homes in college towns so their kids can live rent-free. Sometimes, they're even cashing out big.
Parents buying homes for their kids in college may save on dorm costs, and sometimes even end up with a payday after graduation.
5 min read
What is Kith Ivy, the newest members-only club that will house New York City's first Erewhon
The soon-to-launch Kith Ivy, built around rooftop padel courts, is part of a members-only club boom in New York.
4 min read
I toured an $85 million Hamptons mansion and learned something about the economy
I felt Wall Street's confidence despite broader economic uncertainty during my tours, which included both ocean views and a giant lobster art piece.
5 min read
I visited the summer home of a Gilded Age dynasty. Take a look at the property modeled after a medieval French castle.
Falaise, which means "cliff" in French, was built by Harry Guggenheim in the 1920s.
5 min read
I followed my husband from New York to Sweden's coast. The move changed the way I think about life and work.
My husband got a job in Sweden, so we left New York and moved to Europe. The change of work-life balance, pace, and vibe was exactly what I needed.
4 min read
Stunning beaches, $500 apartments, and cheap flights: Why 3 Americans moved to Albania
In Tirana, Albania, 3 Americans found affordable housing, a lower cost of living, walkable cities, and easier access to explore Europe.
5 min read
Donald Trump redesigned the White House's Rose Garden. See how the space has changed over the years.
President Donald Trump's Rose Garden redesign is one of many decor changes he's made to White House. Take a look at the new "Rose Garden Club."
4 min read
America's homeowner population just shrank for the first time in nearly a decade as affordability woes bite
The number of US homeowners dipped 0.1% on a yearly basis last quarter, the first decline in nearly a decade, according to a new Redfin analysis.
2 min read
I've lived and worked abroad for 20 years. One city stood out as the best — and easiest — place to work.
Of all the cities Andre Neveling has lived in, Singapore is the only one he never wants to revisit.
5 min read
10 of the tallest empty skyscrapers around the world
Buildings become abandoned for many reasons, both before and after they're built. Tall skyscrapers can be especially pricey and remain unfinished.
9 min read
The 10 US housing markets where insurance costs are the highest
Homeowners insurance premiums have climbed an average of 24% over the last three years.
3 min read
Financially independent investors with 100+ doors explain the 6 ways to make money in real estate
"A lot of people don't think about rental properties as a business," says investor Kenji Asakura. "But ultimately, each property is a mini-business."
7 min read
See inside Staatsburgh, a 30,000-square-foot Gilded Age mansion whose owners held tickets for the Titanic
The owners of Staatsburgh, a historic Gilded Age mansion outside New York City, had tickets for the Titanic's second voyage.
8 min read
After 3 years of travel, my partner and I were broke. Moving in with his parents was the best decision we could've made.
My partner and I moved in with my in-laws to save money after traveling full time. We learned a lot about each other and prepared for our future.
4 min read
A CPA couple explains the 'marital loophole' that real estate investors are using to save big on taxes — and other overlooked strategies
Savvy investors are using real estate losses to shelter W-2 income and save big on taxes.
5 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.