The Stocks Leading the Small-Cap Rally | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Takeaways
Small-Cap Stock Performance
What Sectors and Industries Are Driving Small-Cap Gains?
Leading Small-Cap Stock Contributors
Will the Small-Cap Rally Continue?
Home
Stocks
The Stocks Leading the Small-Cap Rally
The Stocks Leading the Small-Cap Rally
Astera, Ciena, and EchoStar are among the top small-cap contributors in the third quarter.
Bella Albrecht
Sep 19, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
AT&T Inc
(T)
Alphabet Inc Class A
(GOOGL)
FTAI Aviation Ltd
(FTAI)
EchoStar Corp Class A
(SATS)
Alphabet Inc Class C
(GOOG)
+6 More
Key TakeawaysSmall-cap stocks are outperforming large- and mid-cap stocks in the third quarter.The technology sector, specifically the semiconductor industry, has driven gains in small caps and the broader market.Falling short- and long-term rates are providing tailwinds for small caps.A reaccelerating economy could further boost small-cap gains.After a long spell of underperformance, small-company stocks finally outpaced the rest of the market in August. For this reversal of fortune, small-cap investors can thank the same kinds of companies that have been driving the overall market: technology and other growth names. More specifically, semiconductors.But the similarity between the rally in small-caps and the overall rise in stocks ends there. Industrials and financials are the next-biggest contributors to the move higher among small caps. Fueling the gains are a recent drop in bond yields and anticipation of the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates. But the strength of the US economy presents a potential headwind for small-company stocks in the months ahead.With the Morningstar US Small Cap Index higher since the start of the third quarter, 1 percentage point ahead of the Morningstar US Market Index, here’s a look at the key stocks driving this rise.Astera Labs ALABCredo Technology CRDOCiena CIENUnity Software URocket Lab RKLBSmall-Cap Stock PerformanceOver the past 10 calendar years, small caps have only beaten the market twice—most recently in 2022, when they fell 18.5%, compared with the 19.4% drop in the broader market. 2016 is the most recent year in which small caps beat the market with a positive return, climbing 20.3% while the overall market rose 12.4%. The Small Cap Index, which targets securities that fall between the 90% and 97% market cap thresholds of the investable universe, is up 8% in the third quarter. That’s better than the 7.8% return on the Morningstar US Large Cap Index and the 3.9% return on the Morningstar US Mid Cap Index. The overall stock market as measured by the US Market Index is up 7%.Breaking down the returns by style, small-growth stocks have gained the most in the third quarter with an 8.4% rally, followed by an 8.2% rise in small-core stocks and a 7.4% gain in small-value stocks.The outperformance by small caps is in stark contrast to the past two quarters. Small caps fell further than the overall market in the first quarter of 2025 and rebounded less than the overall market in the second. Even with their outperformance this quarter, their 8.9% gain in the year to date still lags the overall market’s 13.4% jump.What Sectors and Industries Are Driving Small-Cap Gains?The technology sector is the leading contributor this quarter, adding 2.2 of the 8.0 percentage points gained by the Small Cap Index. Tech has also been a leading contributor to the overall market, adding 3 of the 7 points gained by the US Market Index. Beyond tech, the return attribution diverges between the Small Cap Index and the US Market Index because of their different sector weightings. While the US Market Index has nearly a 10% allocation to communication services—thanks to behemoths like Meta Platforms META and Alphabet GOOGL/GOOG—the Small Cap Index only has a 2% allocation. On the other hand, the Small Cap Index holds a 21% weight in the industrials sector, while the overall market index allocates just 9%.As a result, the second-largest contributor to the Small Cap Index in the third quarter has been industrials, adding 2 percentage points. The financial services sector comes in third, adding 1 point. For the US Market Index, communication services have contributed the second-largest amount (1.6 points), while the consumer cyclical sector is in third (1.0 points).At the industry level, semiconductor firms have been the top contributors to both the Small Cap Index (adding 0.9 percentage points) and the US Market Index (adding 1.7 points).Leading Small-Cap Stock ContributorsFor investors keeping track of the overall rally in the market over the last two years, some of the trends among individual stocks will look familiar. But others will be different. The top two individual contributors to the rise in the Small Cap Index—Astera and Credo—are both semiconductor companies. Astera has surged 155.8% this quarter, adding 0.5 percentage points to the index’s return. Since its IPO in March 2024, the stock has climbed an eye-popping 272.9%. Astera designs and delivers semiconductor-based connectivity solutions for cloud and AI infrastructure.Credo has soared 77.1% this quarter, adding 0.3 percentage points to the index’s return. Over the past 12 months, the stock has exploded 475.2%. Credo provides secure, high-speed connectivity solutions that deliver improved power and cost efficiency as data rates and corresponding bandwidth requirements increase exponentially throughout the data infrastructure market.The next-biggest contributors each added 0.2 points to the Small Cap Index’s return—Ciena, Unity Software, Rocket Lab, EchoStar SATS, and FTAI Aviation FTAI.EchoStar, a satellite telecom services firm, has seen the biggest share price jump of any stock in the index this quarter, at 159.7%. The stock carries a Morningstar Rating of 3 stars, a Very High Uncertainty Rating, and a Poor Capital Allocation Rating. The recent success comes after the firm agreed to sell nearly 70% of its spectrum holdings.“For years, EchoStar has remained steadfast in its belief that it could build a wireless business to capitalize on the value of its wireless licenses,” says director of equity research Michael Hodel. “No real signs of success have emerged, and the firm’s finances have been left in tatters. However, the decision to sell licenses to AT&T T and SpaceX quickly realizes value for shareholders, dramatically reduces balance sheet risk, and opens a new chapter in EchoStar’s development. Regulators could still choose to block the spectrum sales, though, which would put the firm back in its troubled state with no clear path out.Here’s the full list of the top contributors to the Small Cap Index in the third quarter.Will the Small-Cap Rally Continue?In the background, the economic backdrop turned in favor of small caps, but the outlook is more uncertain. “Historically, small-cap stocks do best when the economy is reaccelerating from a slowdown or recession, when the Federal Reserve is easing monetary policy, and when long-term interest rates are declining,” wrote chief US market strategist David Sekera in his September stock market outlook. “It appears that two of these three conditions are coming to fruition, with the third still an outstanding question.”The two factors working as tailwinds for small caps are falling short- and long-term interest rates. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury has dropped to 4.06%, a nearly 52-week low. At the same time, the Fed resumed its rate-cutting cycle on Wednesday, lowering the federal-funds rate target to a range of 4.00%-4.25% from 4.25%-4.50%. The narrow majority of Fed officials projected two additional cuts later this year.But the question is whether the US economy will reaccelerate in the coming quarters. “From a headline perspective, it appears this condition has already been met, as the reported gross domestic product of 3.3% for the second quarter of 2025 well outpaced the 0.3% contraction in the first quarter,” Sekera notes. However, “when stripping out the impact from imports, the real underlying fundamental economy slowed from the first quarter to the second quarter.” Looking ahead, Morningstar’s forecasts that tariffs will slow the economy further going into 2026.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Stocks
View All
Nvidia: Firm Shares Big AI Dreams with OpenAI, Announce a Strategic Partnership The letter of intent is one of several we like to see to support bullish industrywide growth expectations for AI.
Brian Colello, CPA Sep 22, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer defensive stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 22, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Bella Albrecht Data Journalist
More from Author
Bella Albrecht is a data journalist for Morningstar.
11 Newly Overvalued Stocks for the Week
Bella Albrecht Sep 22, 2025
12 New 4-Star Stocks
Bella Albrecht Sep 22, 2025
The Stocks Leading the Small-Cap Rally
Bella Albrecht Sep 19, 2025
August US CPI Report Shows Sticky Inflation at 2.9%
Bella Albrecht Sep 11, 2025
How the Largest ETFs Performed in August
Bella Albrecht Sep 4, 2025
Worst-Performing Stock ETFs
Bella Albrecht Sep 4, 2025
10 Top-Performing Dividend Stocks
Bella Albrecht Sep 3, 2025
Top-Performing Stock ETFs
Bella Albrecht Sep 3, 2025
Best- and Worst-Performing Stocks
Bella Albrecht Sep 2, 2025
July PCE Report: Inflation Index Up 2.6%, in Line with Expectations
Bella Albrecht Aug 29, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility