How I'm protecting my iPhone 17 Pro Max from 'scratchgate' - despite what Apple says | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
How I'm protecting my iPhone 17 Pro Max from 'scratchgate' - despite what Apple says
I have a deep blue iPhone 17 Pro Max on the way, and I'm not taking any chances with it.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:28 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways Apple claims damage is normal wear and tear, or material transfer.A damaged iPhone can cost hundreds of dollars to fix.The best way to protect your investment is with a case.Every new iPhone seems to come with user concerns about durability. This is no surprise when you're dealing with a thin-and-light bit of glass and metal that costs upward of $1,000.Also: Worried about your iPhone 17 scratching? iFixit's teardown reveals what's happening - and whySocial media has been awash with concerns that the new iPhone 17 -- specifically the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max that come in the deep blue finish -- are susceptible to wear and damage. Specifically, there have been photos of iPhones in Apple Stores showing wear from MagSafe chargers, and owners posting photos of damage around the camera plateau.Normal wear and tear?Apple has reached out to 9to5Mac to respond to these concerns, saying the scratches around the MagSafe are not scratches but material transfer from the stand to the phone that can be removed with some cleaning, and that the durability of the camera plateau is no different from the anodized aluminum found on other Apple products. As time goes on, it will experience normal wear and tear and pick up small abrasions. Also: I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this yearEven if you put it in a case, the slight flexing of the case around the iPhone will cause wear to the finish. Add the inevitable dirt and schmoo that gets inside the case, and the wear accelerates.
I have come across the issue of MagSafe chargers causing what looks like wear on the back of iPhones in the past, where the dirt and grime from the back of the handset are squashed into the metal of the casing. I've also seen wear happen because the MagSafe charger can collect fine metallic particles, which can cause the finish to be abraded. Also: I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgradeGive your MagSafe charging pad a clean every few months and you should be fine -- it's unlikely that your charger at home or the office gets anywhere near the sort of wear that a demo unit at the quietest Apple Store gets. I also agree with 9to5Mac's Chance Miller that at least some of the photos of chipped and scratched camera plateaus look like the damage might have been caused deliberately.
Proper iPhone protectionMy deep blue iPhone 17 Pro Max is being delivered today, and I'm not taking any chances. While I don't care much about the finish of the handset -- in my experience, it's either going to get scratched and scuffed out of a case, or manky, grimy, and scuffed in the case -- I do worry about breakages.
Also: iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared both flagship models, and here's the winnerThe screen is the part most people worry about, with good reason because it's the bit they look at and touch. But there's also the back glass, which can shatter and is an odyssey to fix. And then there's that Camera Control button that'll set you back $750 outside of warranty if you break it.
I've heard from a lot of people who broke this, thought it would be a cheap fix, and got a shock when they realized that's most of the cost of a new handset.
Also: Should you upgrade to an iPhone 17 Pro from last year's model? I am - here's whyThis is why I'll not only be putting my iPhone in a case, but that case will have proper protection for the Camera Control button, rather than a hole in the case, which is what you see for cheaper cases. I've got a selection of cases for my handset from companies such as Torres, Spigen, and Otterbox, all of which feature strong protection and a shield for the Camera Control button. And if you're really worried, add a screen protector -- while most do very little other than make the screen look awful, there are some good ones out there! Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use