This week on "Sunday Morning" (Sept. 21) - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
CDC Vaccine Vote
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Sunday Morning
|
Arts
Books
Commentaries
Profiles
Nature
Archives
Watch CBS News
Sunday Morning
This week on "Sunday Morning" (Sept. 21)
By
David
Morgan
Updated on:
September 20, 2025 / 6:04 PM EDT
/ CBS News
The Emmy Award-winning "CBS News Sunday Morning" is broadcast on CBS Sundays beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET.  "Sunday Morning" also streams on the CBS News app beginning at 11:00 a.m. ET. (Download it here.)  Hosted by Jane Pauley
Adam Cvijanovic's mural, "What's So Funny About Peace, Love and Understanding," at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City.
CBS News
COVER STORY: An artist's remarkable new vision for St. Patrick's CathedralWhen asked to create a mural for the entrance of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City, artist Adam Cvijanovic depicted a celestial apparition that points both to the Church's history and to America's tradition of immigration. Mo Rocca talks with Cvijanovic, and with Cardinal Timothy Dolan, about a mural that asks us to treat everyone with decency and respect.For more info: Mural: "What's So Funny About Peace, Love and Understanding" by Adam Cvijanovic, at St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York CityAdam Cvijanovic, Saatchi GalleryHis Eminence, Timothy Cardinal Dolan       ALMANAC: September 21"Sunday Morning" looks back at historical events on this date.
Explore.org offers webcam views of nature from around the world.
Explore.org
NATURE: Webcams in the wild: Windows into nature that "soothe the soul"This summer, as salmon swimming up the Katmai National Park's Brooks Falls became an all-you-can-eat buffet for bears, more than 15 million people watched via explore.org, which runs live-streaming webcams in nature settings around the world. Conor Knighton talks with the site's founder Charlie Annenberg Weingarten, who says the portals into nature provide viewers with an "antidote to stress."
For more info: Explore.org     THESE UNITED STATES: Brown v. Board of Education of TopekaIn December 1953, Thurgood Marshall, an attorney who headed the NAACP's Legal Defense Fund, argued before the U.S. Supreme Court that racial segregation in America was an attempt to keep the formerly enslaved in "as near that stage as is possible." Bill Whitaker reports on how a long-standing legal doctrine was ended.
Actor Dwayne Johnson ("The Smashing Machine"), with correspondent Treacy Smith.
CBS News
MOVIES: Dwayne Johnson on tackling a dramatic role in "The Smashing Machine"Action movie star Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson says he tapped into some childhood trauma to play mixed martial arts & UFC fighter Mark Kerrin in the new film "The Smashing Machine." He reveals to Tracy Smith that he told costar Emily Blunt and director Benny Safdie he was scared to take on the role, and talks about where he finds peace nowadays: his own fishing hole.To watch a trailer for "The Smashing Machine" click on the player below:
The Smashing Machine | Official Trailer HD | A24 by
A24 on
YouTube
For more info:"The Smashing Machine" opens in theaters Oct. 3      PASSAGE: Robert Redford - An appreciationLee Cowan reports.
Robert Redford 1936-2025
57 photos
GALLERY: Robert Redford 1936-2025A retrospective look at the actor, director, producer, and founder of the Sundance Institute.
HEADLINES: Charlie Kirk memorialRobert Costa reports.        ANALYSIS: New York Times writer Jim Rutenberg
In her new book, actress Priscilla Presley writes about life after Elvis.
CBS News
BOOKS: "Softly, as I Leave You": Priscilla Presley writes about her life after ElvisIn her new book, "Softly, as I Leave You: Life After Elvis," Priscilla Presley writes what she calls her final telling of what it was like to be a queen to the King, and what came after. She talks with Lee Cowan about why she and Elvis Presley divorced when she was 28 years old. She also discusses acting in "Dallas" and "The Naked Gun" films, and losing Lisa Marie Presley, the only child she had with Elvis.READ AN EXCERPT: "Softly, as I Leave You: Life After Elvis" by Priscilla Beaulieu PresleyFor more info:"Softly, as I Leave You: Life After Elvis" by Priscilla Beaulieu Presley with Mary Jane Ross (‎Grand Central Publishing), in Hardcover, Large Print Trade Paperback, eBook and Audio formats, available Sept. 23 via Amazon, Barnes & Noble and Bookshop.orgPriscilla Presley on InstagramGraceland (Official site)      HARTMAN: A Texas police recruit stands tallAt 7'3", 24-year-old Jordan Willmore has always had lofty goals – and basketball wasn't one of them. Instead, it was helping people, and that's why he became the tallest recruit at the Kemah, Texas, Police Department. Steve Hartman reports.
Grammy-winning singer Doja Cat.
CBS News
MUSIC: Doja Cat: "I'm very proud of the music I'm making now"The 29-year-old Grammy-winner known as Doja Cat is once again mixing up her look and her sound. She talks with Michelle Miller about her new album, "Vie"; how she was inspired to create music while growing up in an ashram; and how this "rapper that makes pop music" doesn't cut herself a break.
To hear Doja Cat perform "Jealous Type," from her new album 'Vie," click on the video player below:
Doja Cat - Jealous Type (Official Video) by
dojacatVEVO on
YouTube
For more info:Doja Cat (Official site) | Tour info"Vie" by Doja Cat, to be released September 26Outside Lands Music Festival, San Francisco          COMMENTARY: Rabbi Angela Buchdahl on Rosh Hashanah, and a return to "our better selves"As the Jewish calendar marks Rosh Hashanah, Rabbi Angela Buchdahl says our nation can collectively benefit from commemorating the New Year much as the individual does: by returning to the best in ourselves, and turning to goodness, compassion and generosity.For more info: "Heart of a Stranger: An Unlikely Rabbi's Story of Faith, Identity, and Belonging" by Angela Buchdahl (Pamela Dorman Books), in Hardcover, eBook and Audio formats, available Oct. 25 via Amazon, Barnes & Noble and Bookshop.orgRabbi Angela Buchdahl, Central Synagogue, New York     NATURE: Piping plovers in Maine       WEB EXCLUSIVES:
From the archives: Three interviews with Robert Redford
28:06
FROM THE ARCHIVES: Three interviews with Robert Redford (Video)Academy Award-winning actor, director and activist Robert Redford died Sept. 16, 2025 at age 89. We look back at three "Sunday Morning" interviews with Redford over the years: From 1994, with Charles Kuralt, who visited Redford's home in Utah and talked about his early career, and his advocacy of Native American art and culture; from 2006, with Rita Braver, discussing his iconic roles in "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" and "All the President's Men," and how he nurtures young filmmakers through the Sundance Institute and Sundance Film Festival; and from 2018, with Lee Cowan, at the actor's ranch in New Mexico, where – at age 82 – he discussed why he doesn't like watching himself on screen.
From the archives: Olive Garden reviewer Marilyn Hagerty
05:11
FROM THE ARCHIVES: Olive Garden reviewer Marilyn Hagerty (Video)Grand Forks, N.D. restaurant critic Marilyn Hagerty, who died Sept. 16, 2025 at age 99, went viral in 2012 when she wrote a glowing review of the local Olive Garden, which led to internet fame and a book deal with celebrity chef Anthony Bourdain. In this Jan. 19, 2014 "Sunday Morning" report, she spoke with Bill Geist about becoming an online sensation in her mid-80s.
From the archives: Sonny Curtis – from Buddy Holly to Mary Tyler Moore
09:04
FROM THE ARCHIVES: Sonny Curtis – from Buddy Holly to Mary Tyler Moore (Video)Musician
and songwriter Sonny Curtis, who was an early bandmate of Buddy Holly,
and who penned "Love Is All Around" (the theme song of "The Mary Tyler
Moore Show"), died on Sept. 19, 2025 at age 88. In this Jan. 9, 2022
"Sunday Morning" profile, Mo Rocca talked with Curtis about a career
during which he truly made it after all.The Emmy Award-winning "CBS News Sunday Morning" is broadcast on CBS Sundays beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET. Executive producer is Rand Morrison.DVR Alert! Find out when "Sunday Morning" airs in your city  "Sunday Morning" also streams on the CBS News app beginning at 11:00 a.m. ET. (Download it here.)  Full episodes of "Sunday Morning" are now available to watch on demand on CBSNews.com, CBS.com and Paramount+, including via Apple TV, Android TV, Roku, Chromecast, Amazon FireTV/FireTV stick and Xbox.  Follow us on Twitter/X; Facebook; Instagram; YouTube; TikTok; Bluesky; and at cbssundaymorning.com.   You can also download the free "Sunday Morning" audio podcast at iTunes and at Play.it. Now you'll never miss the trumpet!
Do you have sun art you wish to share with us? Email your suns to SundayMorningSuns@cbsnews.com.
More from CBS News
Notre Dame Cathedral's iconic towers reopen 6 years after devastating fire
Cardi B on lawsuits, pressures of fame and divorce from Offset
ICE threatens lawsuits if Democratic states don't hold migrants
How a man salvaged Hurricane Helene rubble to build a new home
David
Morgan
David Morgan is senior producer for CBSNews.com and the Emmy Award-winning "CBS News Sunday Morning." He writes about film, music and the arts. He is author of the books "Monty Python Speaks" and "Knowing the Score," and editor of "Sundancing," about the Sundance Film Festival.
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
More from CBS News
Notre Dame Cathedral's iconic towers reopen 6 years after devastating fire
Cardi B on lawsuits, pressures of fame and divorce from Offset
ICE threatens lawsuits if Democratic states don't hold migrants
How a man salvaged Hurricane Helene rubble to build a new home
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue