Dragon Ball Sparking Zero's new DLC trailer shows Daima characters in action
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Vegeta's never looked so pointy
Dragon Ball Sparking Zero's next DLC brings more than just Daima cameos
By
Austin Manchester
Published 3 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
0:28
Hamish Linklater describes The Boys and Gen V showrunner Eric Kripke in a normal way
4 days ago
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
5 days ago
Him director Justin Tipping explains Marlon Wayans' 'terrifying' moment on set
4 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Image: Spike Chunsoft/Bandai Namco Entertainment
Dragon Ball Daima's Super Saiyan 4 Goku, King Gomah, and more are set to make their Dragon Ball Sparking Zero debut next week. After months of anticipation and a delay, Bandai Namco released a trailer for the Dragon Ball Daima: Character Pack 2 on Friday. It showcases characters and transforations that get the spotlight in the back half of the anime series, like adult Super Saiyan Vegeta 3 (I've now found my new main). Notably, Piccolo and Supreme Kai are not included in the charcter pack, and mini versions of them seemingly won't be making their way to Sparking Zero. The trailer also reveals a new stage, which will be free for all players. You'll be able to recreate the final battle versus Gomah when the First Demon World stage arrives. Unlike the first Daima character pack, which only had Japanese audio, this new trailer includes English voices for the new characters. Dragon Ball Daima: Character Pack 2 marks the end of Dragon Ball Sparking Zero's season pass content, which, all told, included 25 characters and transformations from Dragon Ball Super: Super Hero and Dragon Ball Daima. Polygon has reached out to Bandai Namco asking if this marks the end of support for the game, or if players can expect more content to be added to Dragon Ball Sparking Zero over time. The next round of Daima characters arrives Wednesday Sept. 24, and season pass owners will have 72-hour early access starting Sunday Sept. 21. A new patch also arrives on Sunday, bringing gameplay adjustments and other tweaks alongside the new stage. Dragon Ball Sparking Zero launched last fall to a positive reception, though its lack of game modes, costumes, and stages has left players wanting. It's available on PlayStation 5, Windows PC, and Xbox Series X, and comes to Nintendo Switch and Nintendo Switch 2 on Nov. 14.
News
Gaming
Trailers
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
Slash your way through the Ninja Gaiden series before it leaves Game Pass
5 days ago
Bonfire Studios reveals Arkheron, a Diablo-like looter with battle royale stakes
5 days ago
No one is actually skating in the new Skate
6 days ago
Alien: Earth's eyeball monster is scarier than ever in episode 7
More from our brands
Does the Dragon Ball Franchise Still Have a Future After Dragon Ball DAIMA's Ending?
Dragon Ball DAIMA’s Climax Trailer Just Proved All The Anime’s Haters Wrong
The Best Dragon Ball Games Of All Time, Ranked
Dragon Ball: Sparking Zero - Panzy Character Guide
Dragon Ball: Sparking! ZERO DLC Release Schedule
Which Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2 DLC Packs Are Worth Buying?
Super Saiyan 4 Goku in Dragon Ball DAIMA, Explained
Most Popular
New Palworld game is a cozy farming sim, gives Pals chainsaws
What Michael Rooker's multiple DCU roles in the DCU mean for the canon
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
Your favorite Dropout comedians return in Make Some Noise season 4 next month
Amid Jimmy Kimmel backlash, Disney’s Star Wars trailer looks like a Jedi mind trick
I really need Dan Da Dan season 3 to not start with graphic violence
See More
Trending Now
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Peacemaker just added fuel to my game-changing theory about Eagly
30 years ago, David Fincher's scariest thriller revived horror
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.