Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand — says it can't ship handheld consoles 'in a timely manner' | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
microSD Cards
Where to buy Nintendo Switch 2 microSD Express cards 2025
Handheld Gaming
Lenovo Legion Go on sale for $499
Handheld Gaming
Lenovo Legion Go 2 prototype spotted ahead of launch in China
Handheld Gaming
Ayaneo crams dedicated GPU-class Strix Halo and battery inside next-gen gaming handheld
Nintendo
Nintendo president apologizes for Switch 2 shortage
Handheld Gaming
AMD Strix Halo-powered gaming handheld reveals desktop-like GPU performance
Handheld Gaming
Get $150 off the Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme Windows gaming handheld
Handheld Gaming
Modder builds gaming handheld powered by an RTX 4090 laptop GPU and Intel i9-14900HX
Handheld Gaming
Intel Lunar Lake-powered gaming handheld with 3D display will sell for $1,699
Handheld Gaming
AMD Strix Halo gaming handheld lacks an internal battery
Tablets
AMD's beastly Ryzen AI Max+ 395 chip to power 14-inch OLED gaming 2-in-1
Retro Gaming
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Gaming Monitors
Lenovo's IFA launches include 4K 240 Hz OLED gaming monitors
Nintendo
Analogue 3D Nintendo 64 remake delayed again
Video Games
Console Gaming
Handheld Gaming
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand — says it can't ship handheld consoles 'in a timely manner'
News
By
Jowi Morales
published
23 September 2025
Many gamers were disappointed by this move.
Comments (3)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)
Several gamers have had their Lenovo Legion Go 2 pre-orders canceled by the company after it said that it could not ship its latest handheld console on time. Many had been asking about the delay on the handheld, and the company answered the issue on its AMA Reddit post, saying, “The truth is pre-orders for the Legion Go Gen 2 has substantially exceeded our projections, leading to unforeseen delivery range extensions.” It also added, “That said, we will need to cancel some pre-orders placed directly on Lenovo.com. We don’t believe in holding onto customer payments for products we can’t ship in a timely manner.”We’re the Lenovo Legion team - Ask Us Anything about the Legion Go Gen 2! from r/LegionGoThis disappointing news has hit several gamers, who won’t be getting their handheld at all, at least for the foreseeable future. Despite that, a few users will still receive their consoles, but at a much later date. According to TechPowerUp, there are reports that device shipments have been moved from the original early-October shipping date, as promised on the pre-order form, to early to mid-November. The company did offer a 10% discount coupon to affected users, but they can only use it for their “next Lenovo purchase.”The Lenovo Legion Go 2 is the company’s follow-up to its original gaming handheld and is powered by a Ryzen Z2 Extreme chip replete with an OLED screen. It’s a direct competitor to the upcoming Asus ROG Ally 2, which doesn’t have a release date yet, although Asus is expected to deliver the ROG Xbox Ally and Xbox Ally X on October 16. MSI also has its own AMD Z2 Extreme-powered handheld in the Claw 8, which has outperformed the Intel chip in the previous iteration of its handheld and is scheduled to arrive in the coming weeks.
You may like
Lenovo Legion Go 2 prototype spotted ahead of launch in China
Lenovo Legion Go on sale for $499
Ayaneo crams dedicated GPU-class Strix Halo and battery inside next-gen gaming handheld
All this pre-order brouhaha is bringing back memories of electronics shortages, particularly with the launch of the PlayStation 5 and the various problems consumers faced when buying the latest GPUs. Thankfully, Nintendo seemed to have solved the problem with the launch of the Switch 2, which beat the Switch 1’s opening month by a million units in just four days. Lenovo said that it’s working to deliver consoles to retailers and customers, so availability should improve in the coming weeks. Hopefully, this will materialize so that we can avoid scalpers taking advantage of the situation and selling the gaming handheld at ridiculous markups.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Lenovo
See all comments (3)
Jowi MoralesSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterJowi Morales is a tech enthusiast with years of experience working in the industry. He’s been writing with several tech publications since 2021, where he’s been interested in tech hardware and consumer electronics.
Read more
Lenovo Legion Go 2 prototype spotted ahead of launch in China
Lenovo Legion Go on sale for $499
Ayaneo crams dedicated GPU-class Strix Halo and battery inside next-gen gaming handheld
Nintendo president apologizes for Switch 2 shortage
AMD Strix Halo-powered gaming handheld reveals desktop-like GPU performance
Get $150 off the Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme Windows gaming handheld
Latest in Handheld Gaming
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
DIYer creates the PC gaming handheld of your widest dreams
Lenovo’s Legion Go 2 packs Ryzen Z2 Extreme and an OLED display
Intel Lunar Lake-powered gaming handheld with 3D display will sell for $1,699
Asus ROG Xbox Ally and Xbox Ally X to launch October 16
Modder builds gaming handheld powered by an RTX 4090 laptop GPU and Intel i9-14900HX
Latest in News
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production — could use TSMC's Arizona fab to avoid tariff fallout
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
3 Comments
Comment from the forums
Notton
I'm so baffled by this.
The LeGo2 (especially the 32GB model) was widely criticized for being too expensive, and yet the initial batch still sold out?
If you're going to pay $1475 for a handheld, why not stretch your budget a bit with the base model GPD Win 5 at $1600? It's literally 2x the performance of a Z2X
Reply
dalek1234
Eye watering price tag, yet it sells out. People want top specs in a hand-held, and are willing to pay extra to get that performance.
Now we just need a handheld with Strix Halo graphics. I bet people would be willing to pay for that.
Reply
rustbucket4245
Yeah, I honestly feel like they're just flat out lying to try to drum up demand. Either that or they were ridiculously conservative with the original production run, and/or had production issues.
Reply
View All 3 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.