Springer — The trusted imprint for your society |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Springer — The trusted imprint for your society
Springer is one of a family of imprints published by Springer Nature, and is a leading global scientific, technical and medical portfolio that provides researchers in academia, scientific institutions and corporate R&D departments with quality content through innovative information, products and services.
Springer has one of the strongest STM and HSS eBook collections and archives, as well as a comprehensive range of hybrid and open access journals.
As open access publishing models reshape the way that researchers communicate, collaborate and advance the pace and quality of discovery, we can provide expert advice on the best strategy for your journal or book programme.
When your society publishes journals or books under the Springer imprint, we offer:
A personalized approach
As the business of academic publishing has become increasingly international, maintaining personal relationships and continuity in a publishing partnership is now more important than ever. The Springer portfolio covers the whole spectrum of research fields, and we know that no two societies or journals are the same.
As a partner society, you will work with a dedicated publishing editor who will be a champion for your publication and will serve as the primary point of contact for your society and editors, as well as the main liaison between the different departments within Springer Nature. The publishing editor’s main role is to help drive the development of your journal or book programme by working with the editor-in-chief and wider editorial board to support and develop the journal in conjunction with the primary objectives of your society.
Together with colleagues from marketing, production and sales, your publishing editor will help you monitor competition, track current trends in publishing, conduct competitive analysis, and carry out author satisfaction measurements to ensure the holistic development of your journal.
Speed of dissemination and maximizing access
Maximizing the reach and impact of your content while allowing you to maintain control of your editorial policy is central to our publishing goals. By taking full advantage of the technology available at Springer Nature we can ensure far-reaching exposure for your journal or book programme, whether this is through discovery services, SEO optimization, or tools for content sharing, such as SharedIt. We continuously refine and improve our production processes and are proud that the average time from journal article acceptance to publication is now only 14 days.
Author and society satisfaction
Our commitment to scientific and scholarly advancement means supporting societies like yours in the high-quality and timely publication of your journal or book programme. For us this means enabling authors to share and promote their discoveries, and helping researchers to find, access, and share the work of others. We also lead on issues and matters of importance to researchers, funders, and policy makers. For example, our journals are completely compliant with access requirements of funders’ mandates, including NIH and HHMI.
Springer Nature publishes content covering all fields of research, so we know that each community has different needs. Your goal is to attract high-quality content and your authors, journal or book programme will benefit from our creative strategies that assist in developing new content, improving its discoverability, and allowing as many people to access it as possible.
Your society, editors-in-chief and editorial boards will have the opportunity to discuss the strategy of your journal with your publishing editor at editorial board meetings and strategy retreats where we specifically focus on the future success of our society partner journals. Find out what our authors think in our latest author satisfactory survey.
Financial benefits
Springer Nature is committed to growing the quantity and quality of your journal and book content and translating these developments into revenue. As open access business models become increasingly important, we are ideally positioned to develop a sustainable business model for your journal or book programme, and to ensure the financial security of your society for years to come. By partnering with a large, international publisher you will benefit from economies of scale, while still receiving customized and individual attention. We recognize that each community has different needs and our established monitoring and tracking systems will allow us to report on your journal’s success and progress and develop strategies for future growth.
Seamless transition
Even a change for the better can be stressful. Springer Nature goes the extra mile to minimise the impact of transitioning your journal to us. Our dedicated, multi-disciplinary Transition Management Team oversees the complete transition of your journal into our programme all the way through to April of the first year of publication. We follow the guidelines from the NISO/Transfer Code of Practice and work closely with you throughout the whole process. Staff from all relevant departments worldwide, including editorial, production, sales, operations, abstracting and indexing, customer service, and fulfillment, are available to help.
Partner with us
Society partnerships at Springer Nature
Get expert advice on the best strategy for your journal as open access publishing models reshape the way that researchers communicate, collaborate and advance the pace and quality of discovery.
Open access journals & books
Committed to open research, we offer researchers, institutions and their funders open access (OA) options for journals and books.
BMC partnerships and societies
By partnering with Springer Nature to publish your journal under the BMC imprint, your society will benefit from our experience over more than two decades in open access publishing.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature