Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
editorials
article
Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good
Download PDF
EDITORIAL
24 September 2025
Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good
From funding squeezes to political attacks, higher education is in trouble in many parts of the world. Fresh ideas will allow the sector to thrive and deliver value for society.
Twitter
Facebook
Email
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
The New Model Institute for Technology and Engineering (NMITE) in Hereford, UK, is challenging conventional models for higher education.Credit: Steven May/AlamyUniversities have a long and storied history. Al-Qarawiyyin University in Fez, Morocco, which was founded in the ninth century, is often cited as the world’s oldest continuously operating higher-education institution. The New Model Institute for Technology and Engineering (NMITE) in Hereford, UK, is one of the newest, seeking to reinvent engineering education for the current century.The future of universitiesOur reporter explores NMITE in a Careers feature as part of a special Nature issue on the future of universities, which also kicks off a series of related articles over the coming months. We’re examining the many challenges that higher education is facing globally — ranging from hostile politics to funding pressures to the role of artificial intelligence (AI) tools in teaching and learning. These all add up to arguably the most pivotal moment in the history of universities. As so often before, they must reinvent themselves to survive.Universities are undoubtedly a huge global success story. As education-policy researcher Philip Altbach, founding director of the Center for International Higher Education at Boston College in Massachusetts, writes in a Comment, the original concept of academies that trained (exclusively male) religious and later secular elites has morphed since the Second World War into broad-based institutions of teaching and research. The world’s student population has ballooned from 6 million in 1950 to more than 260 million in 2023. In most societies, a majority of young people aspire to graduate with a degree.The great university shake-up: four charts show how global higher education is changingUniversities are now central to most nations’ future-proofing, as we describe in a News feature. They enable young people to explore their interests and passions and prepare for the world of work. They have also become the go-to institutions for research and the generation of ideas, and therefore they are engines for both economic growth and social mobility.But universities now face crucial, even existential, questions. One of which is how to fund these institutions. In the first heady decades of expansion after 1945, governments in some wealthy countries explicitly saw higher education as part of education. They picked up a large portion of the bill and there was little or no charge for students and their families, just as there was no fee for going to school or college.No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century universityIn today’s world of mass participation in higher education, the idea that universities should be free-to-access is under severe pressure — particularly now that economies, especially in high-income countries, have been growing much more slowly, if at all, since the financial crisis in 2008.Many governments have been transferring the cost of higher education onto students and their families, often through loans that are paid back over many years. Private capital has also become more involved in funding higher education, especially in countries with comparatively fewer high-quality public universities. This means that some universities have started to become less like institutions of public service and more like businesses, which raises fundamental questions about who they are for, how they should operate and how the broadest possible access can be maintained.How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble nowThe tensions surrounding financing extend to funding research, especially in the United States and Europe. University research budgets have, in general, been protected from severe cuts, in part because, over the years, governments have been persuaded by economists that an investment in research is an investment in growth. Researchers are having to remake the case for continued increases in funding when there is less money for essential public services in society, including those relied on by people living in poverty.These tensions have been exacerbated in many parts of the world — again led by the United States and Europe — because higher education has become a point of societal division, and a target of attacks by populist leaders who accuse universities of not fully representing all shades of the social and political spectrum in their teaching and research. Increasing restrictions on visas and immigration in many countries are also straining a model that has become reliant on international movement both of students — who often pay higher fees than do their domestic peers — and of researchers.Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they createTo meet these challenges, universities must take the future into their own hands. As Yasheng Huang, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge, writes in a World View article, one approach they can take in an era of dwindling, less-reliable public funding is to claim back more of the value they generate for society. Universities should think seriously about the strategies advised by Huang that allow them to capture more of the wealth they generate before it goes out their doors.Universities must move with the times: how six scholars tackle AI, mental health and moreBut there is much more that universities should be doing. In a Comment, six researchers from around the world describe the projects that they are undertaking to transform the experience of higher education and make it more fit for purpose — such as expanding the role of AI in medical education, boosting the employability of PhD holders and embedding creativity in science training.Generating fresh ideas lies at the heart of what universities exist to do. Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good. They must turn more of their innate, innovative capacity back on themselves to continue to thrive.
Nature 645, 821 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03065-w
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
The future of universities
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
The great university shake-up: four charts show how global higher education is changing
How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
Universities must move with the times: how six scholars tackle AI, mental health and more
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
Subjects
Education
Careers
Politics
Research management
Society
Latest on:
Education
Careers
Politics
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
Career Feature 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Retractions can reshape scientists’ careers in unexpected ways
Nature Index 25 SEP 25
Mammoth challenge: why we called our de-extinction company Colossal Biosciences
Career Feature 25 SEP 25
It’s not wokeness — it’s human rights
Career Q&A 24 SEP 25
What research might be lost after the NIH’s cuts? Nature trained a bot to find out
Nature Index 24 SEP 25
The great university shake-up: four charts show how global higher education is changing
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Machine learning reveals potential consequences of cuts to US research
Editorial 24 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University School of Medicine
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
Related Articles
The future of universities
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
The great university shake-up: four charts show how global higher education is changing
How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
Universities must move with the times: how six scholars tackle AI, mental health and more
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
Subjects
Education
Careers
Politics
Research management
Society
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited