Italian actress Claudia Cardinale has died at 87 : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Italian actress Claudia Cardinale has died at 87
Home Page Top Stories
Claudia Cardinale, star of '8½' and 'The Leopard,' dies at 87
September 23, 202510:29 PM ET
By
The Associated Press
Italian actress Claudia Cardinale appears at the Prix Lumieres awards ceremony in Paris on Jan. 18, 2013.
Zacharie Scheurer/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Zacharie Scheurer/AP
Acclaimed Italian actor Claudia Cardinale, who starred in some of the most celebrated European films of the 1960s and 1970s, has died, AFP reported Tuesday. She was 87. She starred in more than 100 films and made-for-television productions, but she was best known for embodying youthful purity in Federico Fellini's 8½, in which she co-starred with Marcello Mastroianni in 1963. Cardinale also won praise for her role as Angelica Sedara in Luchino Visconti's award-winning screen adaption of the historical novel The Leopard that same year and a reformed prostitute in Sergio Leone's spaghetti western Once Upon a Time in the West in 1968.
Sponsor Message
She died in Nemours, France, surrounded by her children, her agent Laurent Savry told AFP. Savry and his agency did not immediately return emailed requests for comment from The Associated Press.
Movies
Jim Jarmusch's 'Father Mother Sister Brother' wins top prize at Venice Film Festival
Cardinale began her movie-career at the age of 17 after winning a beauty contest in Tunisia, where she was born of Sicilian parents who had emigrated to North Africa. The contest brought her to the Venice Film Festival, where she came to the attention of the Italian movie industry. Before entering the beauty contest she had expected to become a school teacher. "The fact I'm making movies is just an accident," Cardinale recalled while accepting a lifetime achievement award at the Berlin Film Festival in 2002. "When they asked me 'do you want to be in the movies?' I said no and they insisted for six months." Her success came in the wake of Sophia Loren's international stardom and she was touted as Italy's answer to Brigitte Bardot. While never achieving the level of success of the French actor, she nonetheless was considered a star and worked with the leading directors in Europe and Hollywood. "They gave me everything," Cardinale said. "It's marvelous to live so many lives. I've been living more than 150 lives, totally different women."
What to Watch
28 new movies worth checking out this fall
One of her earliest roles was as a black-clad Sicilian girl in the 1958 comedy classic Big Deal on Madonna Street. It was produced by Franco Cristaldi, who managed her early career and to whom she was married from 1966 to 1975. The sensuous brunette with enormous eyes was often cast as a hot-blooded woman. As she had a deep voice and spoke Italian with a heavy French accent, her voice was dubbed in her early movies. Her career in Hollywood brought only partial success because she was not interested in giving up European film. Nonetheless, she achieved some fame by teaming with Rock Hudson in the 1965 comedy thriller Blindfold and another comedy Don't Make Waves with Tony Curtis two years later.
Sponsor Message
Cardinale herself considered the 1966 The Professionals, directed by Richard Brooks as the best of her Hollywood films, where she starred alongside Burt Lancaster, Jack Palance, Robert Ryan and Lee Marvin.
Movie Reviews
A Sculptor Struggles, But The Art Is Frustratingly Hollow
In a 2002 interview with the Guardian, she explained that the Hollywood studio "wanted me to sign a contract of exclusivity, and I refused. Because I'm a European actress and I was going there for movies." "And I had a big opportunity with Richard Brooks, The Professionals, which is really a magnificent movie," she said. "For me The Professionals is the best I did in Hollywood." Among her industry prizes was a Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement that she received at the Venice film festival nearly 40 years after her initial appearance on screen. In 2000, Cardinale was named a goodwill ambassador for the U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for the defense of women's rights. She had two children. One with Cristaldi and a second with her later companion, Italian director Pasquale Squitieri.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor