CBS Sacramento - Breaking News, Sports, First Alert Weather & Community Journalism
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk
CBS News Atlanta Debuts
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
Sacramento
Getting Answers
facebook
twitter
youtube
News
Weather
Sports
Video
Your County
All News
Sacramento News
California News
Politics
Health
Consumer
Investigations
Wildfires
Pets
Consumer Investigations
Uplifting
Latest Weather
Weather Watchers
Radar
Send Your Weather Footage
All Sports
Friday Gameday
Sports Sunday
CBS Sports HQ
Kings
49ers
SF Giants
A's
Raiders
Sharks
El Dorado County
Nevada County
Placer County
Politics At Large
Sacramento County
San Joaquin County
Solano County
Stanislaus County
Yolo County
Yuba and Sutter Counties
CBS13 News Team
Advertise
Contact Us
Volunteer For Consumer Investigations
Galleries
Links & Numbers
Send A News Tip
See What's On CBS13
Contests
Download The App
CBS News Live
CBS News Sacramento: Local News, Weather & More
Jun 16, 2021
CBS News Sacramento
CBS News Live
Community Journalism
CBS News California
High School Football
What's In Season
Latest News
More
Schwarzenegger says Newsom's California redistricting initiative "doesn't make sense"
The Republican former governor made the comments during the USC International Day of Democracy event on Monday.
4H ago
West Sacramento teachers say low pay is pushing too many colleagues to competing districts
The West Sacramento Teachers Association says the city's school district is losing far too many beloved, award-winning teachers to larger districts that are offering better pay.
55M ago
Scaled-back Mexican Independence Day Festivities still draw crowds in Sacramento region
Millions are celebrating Mexican Independence Day this week, even as concerns about immigration enforcement have led to cancellations and scaled-back events across the region.
updated 53M ago
Mexican equestrians preserve heritage through traditional escaramuza performances
It is Hispanic Heritage Month, and we bring you the story of eight female athletes who demonstrate precision, poise, and elegance — all while embracing their Mexican roots.
1H ago
West Sacramento drivers brace for another 55-Hour freeway connector closure
Drivers in West Sacramento should prepare for another major freeway closure this weekend. Caltrans is planning a 55-hour shutdown that could impact commutes and weekend travel.
1H ago
Rapper Toosii says he's been offered to play DI football at Sac State
Multi-platinum rapper Toosii posted on Instagram photos of himself in a Sac State football uniform and said he is feeling blessed to have received an offer from the Division I program.
5H ago
Paramedic services officially introduced to Lodi through city's fire department
After four years of work, grants, purchasing equipment and schooling, ten paramedics have officially been introduced to the city of Lodi.
updated 52M ago
Water officials sound alarm on "unauthorized solicitors" going to door-to-door In Sacramento County
Water officials across Northern California are issuing warnings about individuals going door-to-door falsely claiming that local tap water is unsafe.
Sep 14
$5,000 reward offered in Sutter Creek City Hall arson investigation
Authorities are offering a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the person responsible for an arson fire at Sutter Creek City Hall in July.
2H ago
More Local News
CBS News California Investigates
More
We asked the candidates for California governor: What has Newsom done well?
Julie Watts spoke to every candidate for California governor ahead of next year's election.
4H ago
Why didn't laws to protect kids online prevent alleged Roblox kidnapping?
CBS News California examined why and how a recent alleged kidnapping might have been avoided if the laws were working the way they were supposed to.
Aug 13
California's top prosecutors honor "American Nightmare" survivors Denise Huskins, Aaron Quinn
They were mocked, doubted and even called liars. But now, Denise Huskins and Aaron Quinn, the couple once accused of staging a kidnapping hoax, are being honored by California's top prosecutors. Here's how their relentless pursuit of justice helped solve cold case crimes and the exclusive confessions they helped uncover.
Aug 1
10:43
More
California News
More
California study: Wildfire defensible space, home hardening double number of homes saved
A University of California, Berkeley study of the state's recent major wildfires shows that taking steps to mitigate fire risk can double the number of homes saved in a wildfire.
5H ago
McKinley Grove giant sequoia trees appear to be OK after Garnet Fire, officials say
Firefighters in Central California have been working to protect a grove of giant sequoia trees from a massive wildfire.
Sep 10
California politician John Burton, who helped shape state's Democratic Party, dies at 92
John Burton was active in politics for over 60 years, and in that time, he served as a U.S. congressman, California assemblymember, President pro Tempore of the California State Senate, and chairman of the California Democratic Party.
Sep 7
Students safe after Central California school bus bursts into flames
Authorities say farm workers helped flag down and stop a school bus that was just starting to catch fire in Madera County, helping everyone escape promptly.
Sep 4
Newsom's controversial California delta tunnel project endorsed by nation's largest irrigation system
California Gov. Gavin Newsom's controversial push to fast-track the Delta Conveyance Project received a formal endorsement this week from the largest irrigation district in the nation.
Sep 3
View more California news
Latest Videos
More
Latest Videos
Sacramento region Mexican Independence Day festivities scale back
Several gatherings that would normally take place have been called off or reduced in size due to fears that immigration enforcement efforts may target large groups of Mexicans, Hispanics, and Latinos.
1H ago
03:12
Sacramento region Mexican Independence Day festivities scale back
Meet the escaramuzas, Mexican equestrians preserving heritage through traditional performances
It is Hispanic Heritage Month, and we bring you the story of eight female athletes who demonstrate precision, poise, and elegance — all while embracing their Mexican roots.
1H ago
04:02
Why are West Sacramento teachers moving out of Washington Unified?
West Sacramento's school district says they are losing too many teachers to the city of Sacramento and other larger school districts. Why? That is because Washington Unified can't keep up with what those districts are offering in salary.
1H ago
03:06
West Sacramento braces for another 55-Hour freeway connector closure
Drivers in West Sacramento should prepare for another major freeway closure this weekend. Caltrans is planning a 55-hour shutdown that could impact commutes and weekend travel.
1H ago
01:31
How much protein do you actually need in your diet? | The Answer
From social media trends to fad diets, so much is out there about eating high amounts of protein. And while protein is incredibly important for our health, how much of it do we actually need in our diet? We find out in The Answer.
2H ago
01:36
More Latest Videos
KOVR 70th Anniversary
The Answer
Sacramento Speaks
California 2030
Consumer Problem?
Tell CBS13
Politics with Gary Dietrich
As seen on air
Share Your Feedback
Politics
More
Exclusive
Oracle could play key role in TikTok deal between Trump administration and China, sources say
Technology company Oracle is among a consortium of firms that would enable TikTok to continue operations in the U.S. if a framework deal is finalized, sources say.
2H ago
A look inside the long journey for those seeking asylum in the U.S.
According to Syracuse University's immigration tracking data, there are more than 2 million active asylum cases waiting to be heard.
6H ago
Trump announces second U.S. strike against alleged Venezuelan drug boat
President Trump announced Monday the U.S. military has carried out a second strike on alleged Venezuelan "narcoterrorists."
7H ago
U.S. and China have "framework" of TikTok deal as Trump teases agreement
"We have a framework for a TikTok deal," Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said after talks with Chinese officials in Spain.
8H ago
Many Hispanic Heritage Month celebrations scrapped due to ICE raid fears
ICE raids, the federally led English-only initiative and an anti-DEI push have changed the national climate in which Hispanic Heritage Month celebrations occur -- when they do at all.
19H ago
More Political News
Latest Sports
Rapper Toosii says he's been offered to play DI football at Sac State
Multi-platinum rapper Toosii posted on Instagram photos of himself in a Sac State football uniform and said he is feeling blessed to have received an offer from the Division I program.
5H ago
Dodgers beat Giants 10-2, SF now 1.5 games back for last NL wild card
Teoscar Hernández had his second four-hit game this season, and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat San Francisco 10-2 Sunday to drop the Giants 1 1/2 games behind the New York Mets for the last NL wild card.
Sep 14
Mac Jones shines in relief of Purdy as 49ers top Saints 26-21
Jones threw for 279 yards and a career-high-tying three touchdowns, and the banged-up 49ers defeated the Saints 26-21 on Sunday.
Sep 14
Valkyries lose 101-72
to #1 seed Minnesota Lynx in first-ever playoff game
Napheesa Collier scored 20 points to lead five players in double figures and the Minnesota Lynx breezed to a 101-72 victory over the Golden State Valkyries on Sunday in Game 1 of the best-of-three first-round WNBA series.
Sep 14
Ex-world boxing champion Ricky Hatton found dead at age 46
Ricky Hatton shared the ring with the best boxers of his generation, including Kostya Tszyu, Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao.
Sep 14
Kurtz hits 493-foot grand slam as A's beat Reds 11-5
Nick Kurtz launched a 493-foot grand slam — the longest home run in the majors this season — and the Athletics hammered Hunter Greene early in an 11-5 victory Saturday night over the Cincinnati Reds.
Sep 13
NASCAR returns to Roseville, providing economic boost to local businesses
NASCAR is back in Roseville. The fans are there, and so is a boost for local businesses.
Sep 13
Athletics beat Reds 3-0 as Carlos Cortes hits 2 HRs
Carlos Cortes hit a pair of solo home runs, Lawrence Butler led off with a homer and the Athletics beat the Cincinnati Reds 3-0 on Friday night after A's starter J.T. Ginn left in the fifth inning with an injury.
Sep 12
Game-ending grand slam sends surging Giants past first-place Dodgers 5-1
Patrick Bailey hit a game-ending grand slam with one out in the 10th inning, sending the San Francisco Giants past the division-leading Los Angeles Dodgers 5-1 on Friday night to boost their position in the NL wild-card chase.
Sep 12
Show More
First Alert Weather
More
First Alert Weather
Monday evening Northern California weather forecast: September 15, 2025
Here is a look at your next seven days of weather!
5H ago
03:05
More
CBS13 TV Schedule
View All Programs
Our Newsletter
Space News
Mars rover uncovers strongest hints yet of potential signs of ancient life
NASA's Mars rover Perseverance has uncovered rocks in a dry river channel that may hold potential signs of ancient microscopic life.
Sep 10
NASA scientists probe Earth-like planet for atmosphere, water
Exoplanet TRAPPIST-1 e may contain an atmosphere and liquid water, NASA scientists said. Research into the exoplanet is ongoing.
Sep 9
Blood moon rises during total lunar eclipse. See the photos.
A blood moon rose in the night sky this week, offering a dazzling celestial event for people across multiple continents.
Sep 8
Consumer Investigations
More
How to experiment with asking banks to lower your credit card interest rate
CBS13 and the Call Kurtis consumer investigative team devised an idea on how to lower what consumers owe on their credit cards -- and it begins with a simple phone call.
Jan 7
What happens to your photos and videos when you die? How to keep memories after you're gone
No one wants to think about death. However, it's important to plan on what happens to your digital assets after you die.
Nov 25, 2024
When new flooring is marketed as waterproof, is it really "waterproof"? A Sacramento family's saga.
After spending $18,000 on waterproof laminate floors, a Natomas couple spotted damage after the first cleaning.
Nov 18, 2024
More
Around The Nation
More
Around The Nation
A look inside the long journey for those seeking asylum in the U.S.
According to Syracuse University's immigration tracking data, there are more than 2 million active asylum cases waiting to be heard.
6H ago
Trump announces second U.S. strike against alleged Venezuelan drug boat
President Trump announced Monday the U.S. military has carried out a second strike on alleged Venezuelan "narcoterrorists."
7H ago
Charlie Kirk shooting suspect under special watch as investigators seek motive
The suspect in the assassination of Charlie Kirk is under special watch in a Utah jail, days after he allegedly shot and killed the 31-year-old conservative activist.
7H ago
U.S. and China have "framework" of TikTok deal as Trump teases agreement
"We have a framework for a TikTok deal," Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said after talks with Chinese officials in Spain.
8H ago
Fox News host apologizes for remarks about mentally ill homeless people
Brian Kilmeade made the comment while talking about the stabbing murder of Iryna Zarutska in Charlotte, North Carolina.
20H ago
More National News
Entertainment News
More
Entertainment News
How and when to watch the 2025 Emmy Awards show live tonight
Don't miss a moment of the 2025 Emmys. Here's how to watch the action live, from the red carpet to the awards show.
Sep 14
Nate Bargatze talks about his comedy style as he prepares to host Emmys
Comedian Nate Bargatze spoke to "CBS Mornings" about preparing to host the 77th Emmy Awards on Sunday.
Sep 9
Rick Davies, Supertramp lead singer and co-founder, dies at 81
Rick Davies, lead singer and co-founder of Supertramp, has died of cancer at 81. The British band says he left "an indelible mark on rock music history."
Sep 8
Who won MTV Video Music Awards for 2025? See the full winners list here
See the full list of winners and nominees for the 2025 MTV Video Music Awards.
Sep 7
Darth Vader's lightsaber sells at auction for over $3.6 million
A lightsaber Darth Vader​ used in the Star Wars films "The Empire Strikes Back" and "Return of the Jedi" sold at auction for more than $3.6 million.
Sep 5
More Entertainment News
Health News
More
Health News
Women who experienced stalking have higher heart disease risk, study finds
A team of Harvard researchers analyzed data for more than 66,000 nurses, ages 36 to 56, who were surveyed about their own health for 20 years.
Sep 12
California bill seeking to cap insulin co-pays at $35 heads to Newsom's desk
A bill that would cap the price of insulin in California at $35 for a 30-day supply has been approved by the state legislature and is heading to Gov. Gavin Newsom's desk.
Sep 10
California, Oregon, Washington, Hawaii form health alliance in response to CDC changes
California, Oregon, Washington and Hawaii announced the formation of a health alliance to guide residents on vaccines and immunizations because of what a joint statement called "the politicization of science" by the federal government.
Sep 4
Young kids diagnosed with ADHD are often prescribed medication too quickly, study finds
About 42% of the children in the study diagnosed with ADHD were prescribed drugs within 30 days of diagnosis.
Aug 29
California resident in Lake Tahoe area tests positive for plague
Public health officials said the person may have been bitten by an infected flea while camping in the South Lake Tahoe area.
Aug 20
More Health News
Consumer News
More
Consumer News
Roseville dress shop owners talk potential tariffs impact on wedding, prom season
Finding the perfect dress isn't easy, but now, selling them could become a lot more challenging.
Apr 9
Placer County's Sip Into Spring wine tasting event is this weekend
This weekend, Placer County is hosting its annual Sip Into Spring event, offering free or discounted tastings at more than 20 wineries along what's known as the Placer Wine Trail.
Mar 28
How Mexico, Canada tariffs taking effect Tuesday will impact Sacramento
From fruits and veggies to car parts, economists project that businesses will pass along the cost of the tariffs to customers.
Mar 3
Amid nationwide economic blackout day, Sacramento's Zanzibar faces closure after 26 years
An economic blackout was underway Friday as activists nationwide encouraged people not to spend their money at large corporations, retailers and fast-food chains for 24 hours.
Feb 28
San Joaquin County sees positive results from retail theft reporting app
San Joaquin County's retail theft reporting app has only been around for six months and is already bringing a sense of calmness to local business owners.
Feb 27
More Consumer News
Business News
More
Business News
California bill reversing tax hike on legal cannabis heads to Newsom
A bill that would reverse a 25% tax increase on California's legal cannabis industry is heading to Gov. Gavin Newsom's desk, after being approved by the legislature.
Sep 11
California bill seeking to cap insulin co-pays at $35 heads to Newsom's desk
A bill that would cap the price of insulin in California at $35 for a 30-day supply has been approved by the state legislature and is heading to Gov. Gavin Newsom's desk.
Sep 10
The Porch reopens in Sacramento's midtown after fire left building damaged
A popular spot serving up southern comfort dishes in midtown Sacramento finally reopened its doors this weekend after a fire threatened to close it down for good​.
Aug 30
Target CEO will step down in February, COO will take his place
Target CEO Brian Cornell, who helped reenergize the company but has struggled to turn around weak sales in a more competitive retail landscape since the COVID pandemic, plans to step down Feb. 1.
Aug 20
AT&T plans to replace legacy landline network in California encounter some resistance
AT&T is pushing to get rid of its legacy copper landline services and instead replace them with advanced fiber optic networks. But not everyone is on board with getting rid of their landline.
Aug 19
More Business News
Pet News
More
Pet News
Dog's terminal cancer diagnosis dropped after UC Davis clinical trial
Lola, the golden retriever, was given a terminal cancer diagnosis with just a couple of months to live. An aggressive cancer of the mouth spread to her lungs at 9 years old.
Aug 27
Meet the bat dog stealing the spotlight at Yuba Sutter High Wheelers games
You've heard of a bat boy, how about a bat dog? The Yuba Sutter High Wheelers have a new teammate this year.
Aug 27
An owner's pack of dogs is harming animals in south Natomas for second time this year
The Front Street Animal Shelter in Sacramento is asking the public to beware of three husky-mix dogs on the loose in south Natomas that are responsible for killing a cat and biting a dog.
May 21
West Sacramento man sending ashes of wife, dog to space
Filled with otherworldly wonder, one local man is fulfilling his late wife's final wish: to travel into the great beyond.
May 15
Loose dogs caught on camera killing pet cat in Yuba City, animal services increases patrols
The 21-year-old cat, Alfie, had to be euthanized after suffering internal injuries and a detached hip.
Apr 3
More Pet News
Drought News
More
Drought News
Sites Reservoir project northwest of Sacramento gains momentum
The conversation surrounding California's water continues. The Sites Reservoir project northwest of Sacramento has a price tag of $4 billion and is funded by local, state and federal dollars.
Apr 19, 2024
Groundwater supply could get a boost across the Sacramento area thanks to a new project
The Regional Water Authority is working on creating a "bank" to store water underground doubling the capacity of groundwater stored.
Sep 14, 2023
Remote Northern California reservoir stuck in drought despite winter's water wealth
There's one Northern California reservoir that hasn't rebounded despite this winter's rain and snow.
May 13, 2023
Shasta Lake nearly filled to the brim following remarkable winter turnaround
If you want to measure the success of this winter, California's largest reservoir is a good way to do it. As of Friday, Shasta is about three feet away from full, and that's a foot higher than where it was on Monday.
May 6, 2023
Lake Oroville at 91% capacity, DWR increases water releases
The DWR upped its water release amount this week. On Wednesday 18,000 cfs were released and 20,000 cfs on Thursday.
Apr 27, 2023
More Drought News
Uplifting News
More
Uplifting News
Sacramento could be home to America's Favorite Teacher
A Sacramento-area middle school history and English teacher is in the running to win big as America's Favorite Teacher, a title her students think she is more than worthy of being awarded.
Apr 1
Yolo County basketball star inches closer to goal of 3K career points, totaling 1K this season
Junior Romello Bruhn of Woodland Christian High School is closer than ever to scoring 3,000 career points, something only 13 high school athletes have accomplished in California state history.
Mar 12
Sacramento Chick-fil-A customer celebrates 90th birthday at restaurant he's become a staple at
Cake, candles, chicken and a cow are the recipe for a 90th birthday celebration at the Madison Avenue Chick-fil-A for a long-time customer who has become a staple in the Sacramento community.
Feb 3
California high school senior uses own money to buy holiday gift for every student at school
A high school senior and his girlfriend dressed up as Santa and Mrs. Claus and handed out gifts to every student at their school, Marysville Charter Academy for the Arts.
Dec 18, 2024
Dozens of people with disabilities set sail for first time at Sacramento Deep Water Channel
It was a day of conquering fears and overcoming odds at the Sacramento Deep Water Channel this weekend. People living with physical disabilities got an opportunity to feel the exhilaration of setting sail.
Sep 29, 2024
More Uplifting News
Featured
Charlie Kirk Death
Charlie Kirk Shooting Suspect
U.S. Losing Thousands of Manufacturing Jobs
2025 Emmy Awards
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Sacramento
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KOVR-TV
Public File for KMAX-TV / Good Day Sacramento
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue