Google may shift to risk-based Android security patch rollouts - what that means for you | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
Google may shift to risk-based Android security patch rollouts - what that means for you
Google is prioritizing critical real-world vulnerabilities while also improving the OEM patching process.
Written by
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 16, 2025 at 6:58 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysGoogle may change how Android security updates work.But larger patch cycles might give hackers more time.'High-risk first' model could streamline OEM patches.Google is considering an overhaul of security patch update rollouts in a bid to improve Android security.Risk-based update systemAccording to Android Authority, the new system -- dubbed the "Risk-Based Update System" (RBUS) -- will continue to protect Android users while streamlining Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) patching procedures. Also: Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is hidden and off by default - turn it on nowCurrently, Google operates Android Security Bulletins (ASBs) listing fixes for vulnerabilities impacting the Android operating system. Android partners and OEMs are notified of all issues at least a month before the public release. Instead of throwing every available fix for everything from high-risk, critical vulnerabilities to low-risk bugs into a monthly ASB, Google may pivot to a focus on shipping updates for critical real-world issues within its monthly patch cycles. So, if a vulnerability is being actively exploited in the wild or is considered to be of extreme risk to user privacy and security, it will be patched more quickly than a low-risk denial-of-service memory issue, for example.
Also: Google is killing the Android phone feature that once made them popular - and there's a big reason whyAs noted by the publication, however, there is a difference between an official "critical" rating as issued by authorities in CVSS scoring and what the tech giant could deem high risk. This means that a security issue with a low CVSS score that is used in a wider exploit chain, theoretically, may be included in monthly updates.
This means that other, 'low risk' security problems could be transitioned to quarterly ASB patch cycles.
What does this mean for OEMs? OEMs utilize the Android operating system to operate their devices, but this doesn't mean they follow the same security patch update cycles, and many run their own bulletins. Google appears to want to reduce the sheer number of fixes that need to be deployed on Android handsets, which could mean that fewer patches need to be tested and deployed on a monthly basis. If high-risk bugs are tackled first, this may give OEMs more breathing room and more control over what fixes they want to deploy, and when.
Also: I still prefer my Google Pixel 9 Pro over the expensive flagships - and it's not even closeHowever, a downside is that delays in resolving security issues may occur, which could give threat actors more time to use security flaws in their attacks. There's also a risk that upcoming releases could be leaked, giving attackers forewarning on what bugs are due to be fixed and when.
Quarterly ASBs will likely be far larger, and this is demonstrated already if you consider Google's September ASB, which contained fixes for over 100 vulnerabilities. Compare this July or August, in which none or very few bugs were listed in the bulletins. "Android and Pixel security bulletins are published monthly," a Google spokesperson told ZDNET. "To keep users safe, we build powerful security deep into Android's foundation. Android stops most vulnerability exploitation at the source with extensive platform hardening, like our use of the memory-safe language Rust and advanced anti-exploitation protections. Android and Pixel continuously address known security vulnerabilities and prioritize fixing and patching the highest-risk ones first." Also: 7 ways to lock down your phone's security - before it's too lateIn related news, starting next year, the developers behind apps installed on Android-certified devices will be required to verify themselves. In particular, sideloading -- a tunnel that allows users to bypass Google Play and install apps from unverified sources -- will be restricted, and Google says this should allow the company to clamp down on fake and fraudulent software. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is hidden and off by default - turn it on now
Get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026: 2 ways
Consumer Reports calls Microsoft 'hypocritical' for stranding millions of Windows 10 PCs
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use