I changed these 5 settings on my TV to significantly improve the picture quality | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
TVs
I changed these 5 settings on my TV to significantly improve the picture quality
A few quick tweaks to your TV's basic settings can noticeably sharpen the picture and enhance your viewing experience.
Written by
Chris Bayer, EditorEditor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 9:47 a.m. PT
Adam Breeden/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Whether you're considering buying a new TV or your old flat panel seems to be doing fine, there are still ways to optimize your viewing experience, and it all begins with your television's settings. Let's explore some of the key factors determining how your TV performs and what you can do to make it look even better.1. Turn down the sharpnessThe sharper the picture, the better. Right? Not necessarily.Contrary to popular belief, the "sharpness" setting on your TV doesn't affect the actual sharpness of the displayed image. True sharpness is determined by factors such as screen resolution, source material resolution, and contrast. Instead, the sharpness setting alters the artificial edge enhancement -- a processor-driven adjustment that can introduce unwanted noise and, ironically, distort details in the image.Also: I replaced my 4K TV with a UST projector - and the visual upgrade was worth itEdge enhancement is designed to make on-screen objects more distinct by emphasizing the boundaries between them, theoretically creating a more lifelike image. However, this feature acts like a universal Instagram filter, potentially leading to an unnatural appearance in some media.While it may not be necessary to reduce sharpness to zero, it's generally recommended to turn it down significantly. For most TVs, a sweet spot between five to 10 percent can help achieve a balanced image, although you should experiment to find the level that looks best to you. 2. Turn off Motion Smoothing
Maria Diaz/ZDNETAn important setting to consider adjusting is Motion Smoothing, a frame interpolation feature created to reduce the blurring effect noticeable during fast-paced sequences. This feature aims to reconcile discrepancies between movie frame rates (usually 24 frames per second) and the TV's frame rate.When scenes filmed at 24fps are played on a higher frame rate TV, watchers might notice an effect known as "judder." TV manufacturers developed Motion Smoothing to tackle this problem. However, it can degrade the visual quality of images by generating additional frames, resulting in some janky viewing. Some TVs also add frames or alter refresh rates to minimize motion issues. But these efforts may unintentionally create the "soap opera effect," making high-quality content appear subpar.
Also: Your TV's USB port has an invaluable feature you should use during internet outagesMotion Smoothing is typically enabled by default, and finding the setting to disable it might require some searching. It is often hidden within the settings menu, and each manufacturer has a unique name for its motion-smoothing processes. For example, LG calls it TruMotion, Samsung refers to it as Auto Motion Plus, and Sony has both Motionflow and CineMotion.3. Turn off Vivid Mode and lower brightnessTV manufacturers and retailers aim to make their new models appear extremely bright and vivid when displayed on store shelves under fluorescent lighting, often turning on settings like a "Vivid" picture mode that cranks up the backlight and intensifies the image.What does Vivid mode do? It massively increases brightness, oversaturates colors, and enhances the display's appearance in less-than-optimal lighting conditions. But the lighting at Best Buy or Costco is much different than that of your living room. Turning off Vivid mode will not only provide a more accurate depiction of the scenery but also be more amenable to sensitive eyes.Also: Roku TV acting up? This 30-second fix will make your system run like new againAlong the lines of Vivid mode is the brightness setting, also referred to as black point. An improperly calibrated brightness can result in a washed-out image when set too high or make darker scenes difficult to discern when set too low. Adjusting this setting will enable you to appreciate the fine details in your favorite content. To optimize the brightness, follow these steps:Find a video with a dimly lit scene, such as an
extended nighttime scene, and then hit pause.Set your TV's brightness to the
lowest level.Gradually increase the brightness
until you can discern lots of detail within the image's shadows without
making them excessively bright.4. Check your contrast
Kerry Wan/ZDNETAdjusting the contrast on your TV can result in enhanced detail, improved depth and dimension, and reduced eyestrain. It helps prevent bright areas from appearing overexposed or "blown out" and keeps dark areas from becoming too muddy, ideally resulting in a more balanced image with richer details. When you unbox a new TV, the contrast settings are often cranked up way too high. While high contrast can enhance picture quality, excessively high levels can actually strip away finer details, robbing the image of depth and realism.Also: Your car's USB port has hidden superpowers: 5 features you're not taking advantage ofTo improve the contrast, adjust the settings while viewing an image with both bright highlights and shadowy areas. For example, a scenic shot of a cloudy sky is an ideal reference point. Adjust the contrast so that the bright areas retain detail without becoming blown out, while the darker areas maintain depth and richness. The key is striking the right balance between preserving highlight and shadow details for a rich, three-dimensional picture.5. Select the right picture modeYour TV likely has a host of picture presets (some of which definitely do not look good). To be fair, they partly depend on what you're watching, with the lighting conditions in the room also playing an important role. Finding the best mode for your purposes can significantly improve your experience, and if you get lucky, you could find the perfect setting with one click.Picture modes are preset configurations that adjust multiple display settings at once to optimize for specific purposes. Out of the box, TVs are often set to a default picture mode like Standard or Dynamic. Dynamic mode tends to boost brightness, clarity, and color saturation (similar to Vivid mode mentioned above), while Standard mode aims for a balanced, neutral picture suitable for various types of content.Also: The default TV setting you should turn off ASAP - and why experts recommend itFinding the best picture mode for your preferences and environment might depend on whether you're watching a film or playing a video game, or watching sports. Many TVs have picture modes for those media specifically -- simply called Gaming and Sports. For the former, your video game console will handle the visual rendering while the Gaming mode shuts down the TV's video processing to deliver the shortest lag times. The Sports picture option is the one mode where you might benefit from enabling Motion Smoothing, which is designed to reduce motion blur and duplication artifacts. Most models include a Movie or Cinema mode, which is designed for viewing in a dark, theatre-like environment. As a fairly new option, some manufacturers are offering Filmmaker mode, an industry-standard setting that focuses on preserving the director's original artistic vision. It works on the (usually accurate) assumption that the movie was crafted with color adjustments and other fine-tuning, so the film is presented without alteration. Filmmaker mode, like Game mode, strips away additional video processing, allowing viewers to experience the movie as it was originally meant to be seen in the theater.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to disable ACR on your TV - and why you should ASAP
Slow Roku TV? This 30-second routine will keep your device running like new
Running on iOS 18? Changing these settings greatly improved my iPhone's battery life
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use