The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
The 8 Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy Now
Western Union
LPL Financial Holdings
MarketAxess Holdings
PayPal Holdings
TransUnion
FactSet
Prudential
S&P Global
How to Find More of the Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Home
Stocks
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet
and
Margaret Giles
Sep 25, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
FactSet Research Systems Inc
(FDS)
Prudential PLC ADR
(PUK)
The Western Union Co
(WU)
MarketAxess Holdings Inc
(MKTX)
PayPal Holdings Inc
(PYPL)
+3 More
Financial-services companies provide a wide range of vital services to millions of people—including credit cards, wealth and asset management, and products and research to make investing easier.In the year to date, the Morningstar US Financial-Services Index rose 13.61%, while the Morningstar US Market Index gained 13.79%.The 8 Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy NowThese were the most undervalued financial-services stocks that Morningstar’s analysts cover as of Sept. 24, 2025.Western Union WULPL Financial Holdings LPLAMarketAxess Holdings MKTXPayPal Holdings PYPLTransUnion TRUFactSet FDSPrudential PUKS&P Global SPGITo come up with our list of the best financial-services stocks to buy now, we screened for:Financial-services stocks that are undervalued, as measured by our price/fair value metric.Stocks that earn narrow or wide Morningstar Economic Moat Ratings, as well as companies that do not have a moat. We think companies with narrow economic moat ratings can fight off competitors for at least 10 years; wide-moat companies should remain competitive for 20 years or more.Stocks that earn a Low, Medium, High, or Very High Morningstar Uncertainty Rating, which captures the range of potential outcomes for a company’s fair value.Read more: 5 Ways to Protect Clients From Catastrophic RiskHere’s a little more about each of the best financial-services stocks to buy, including commentary from the Morningstar analysts who cover each company. All data is as of Sept. 24, 2025.Western UnionMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.48Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowForward Dividend Yield: 11.52%Industry: Credit ServicesCredit services firm Western Union is the cheapest stock on our list of the best financial-services stocks to buy. Western Union provides domestic and international money transfers through its global network of over 500,000 outside agents. The stock is trading 52% below our fair value estimate of $17 per share.Western Union’s performance in recent years has been weak, which we think has played into the idea that the company is being disrupted by newer players. But we think the pressures the company has faced historically will ease a bit going forward. We continue to believe Western Union has a narrow moat based on its sizable scale advantage, but with limited long-term growth prospects, the amount of value the moat will create could be questioned. Additionally, the company faces some political headwinds as well.We think the current management team has a better approach and has instituted pricing reductions to stabilize volumes and allow the company to start to grow modestly over time off a better base. We also think that digital-only players will become less of an issue over time, as the ability to run ongoing losses is diminished going forward.The company has been actively building out its presence in electronic channels in recent years to adapt to the change in the industry. Western Union saw a sharp spike in digital transfers at the beginning of the pandemic. Western Union achieved a 32% year-over-year increase in transaction growth in 2021 as this area of the company’s business jumped to about a fourth of revenue. More recently, results took a sharp negative turn, and management is attempting to get this side of the business back on track with investments in its platform and pricing actions.We believe an aggressive approach is the best strategy, as Western Union positions itself to maintain its scale advantage despite the shift. In our view, scale and market share across all channels will be the dominant factor in long-term competitive position, and Western Union appears to be recovering its overall position. However, the growth that the company is seeing in digital transfers has not led to strong overall growth historically, and we don’t expect this situation to change.In the near term, however, political headwinds in the US will likely offset any underlying improvements the company is making. The current administration’s aggressive efforts to reduce immigration are having a material impact on money transfers. Brett Horn, Morningstar senior analystRead more about Western Union here. LPL Financial HoldingsMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.66Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: WideForward Dividend Yield: 0.36%Industry: Capital MarketsLPL Financial is the largest US independent broker/dealer, with nearly 29,000 financial advisors affiliated with its platform and roughly 10 million associated customer accounts at the end of 2024. Trading 34% below our fair value estimate, LPL Financial Holdings has an economic moat rating of wide. We think shares of this stock are worth $504 per share.In recent years, LPL Financial has prioritized growth in advisory headcount by expanding its affiliation models, broadening its array of higher-touch services and its product shelf, allowing it to better serve advisors with higher net worth clientele, and by engaging in strategic mergers and acquisitions. This, in turn, has allowed the company to generate scale over relatively fixed trading and back-office costs, strengthening its cost advantage relative to smaller independent broker/dealer competitors. Simultaneously, LPL has invested in a liquidity and succession program to help retiring advisors sell their practices while retaining assets in the firm’s ecosystem. Attributable primarily to these strategies, LPL has seen its advisor headcount grow to nearly 29,000 in 2024, a 7.3% annual growth rate during a decade in which overall advisor headcount grew just 0.3% (McKinsey), while maintaining an asset retention rate north of 97% during the period. Overall, we take a positive view of the firm’s strategy and expect its advantages to become even more entrenched moving forward as the industry continues to consolidate.Looking ahead, we view the firm’s expansion of affiliation options and services as a nice option for investors, enabling LPL to compete for a larger chunk of the roughly $36 trillion in US-advised assets (Cerulli data, Morningstar estimates) at year-end 2024. Still, we expect the firm’s stronghold to remain the long tail of less productive financial advisors, who are generally attracted to LPL’s high payout rates (85%-90%), competitive technology platform and product shelf, and solid service levels. The firm also outperforms its IBD peers in the institutional channel (insurance companies and banks), with those players generally viewing the broker/dealer as a partner rather than a competitor, given its lack of first-party asset management and insurance products.We’re also generally constructive regarding LPL Financial’s M&A strategy, but expect few prospective options—given the dearth of remaining midsize firms—for the company to engage in sizable deals like Atria (2024) or Commonwealth Financial Network (2025) in future years. Sean Dunlop, Morningstar directorRead more about LPL Financial Holdings here.MarketAxess HoldingsMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.69Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: WideForward Dividend Yield: 1.70%Industry: Capital MarketsNext on our list of the best financial-services stocks to buy is MarketAxess Holdings. Founded in 2000, MarketAxess is a leading electronic fixed-income trading platform that connects broker/dealers and institutional investors. The stock is trading at a 31% discount to our fair value estimate of $260 per share.MarketAxess operates the leading platform for the electronic trading of corporate bonds. While the company is primarily focused on US securities, 35% to 45% of its corporate bond trading volume comes from emerging-market debt and eurobonds, giving the company a strong international presence. MarketAxess also offers trading in US Treasuries and municipal bonds, bolstering its efforts in these sectors through the acquisitions of LiquidityEdge and MuniBrokers in 2019 and 2021, respectively. That said, corporate bonds are the core of MarketAxess’ business, which we expect to remain true, a consequence of being a relative newcomer to the Treasury trading market and the smaller size of the municipal debt market.Fixed-income markets globally are increasingly moving away from voice-negotiated trading toward electronic trading platforms, as the liquidity and workflow enhancement of these electronic networks promise to lower implicit and explicit trading costs for increasingly expense-conscious firms. As MarketAxess rolls out new features such as automated trade execution and expands its Open Trading all-to-all network, the cost and liquidity advantages of electronic trading networks over traditional methods continues to increase.So far 2025 has been a decent year for MarketAxess, as more corporate bond issuance and higher market activity have been driving trading volume up. However, the high volume industrywide has been partially offset by weaker average pricing and market share issues. MarketAxess continues to face significant competition in the electronically traded US corporate bond market from both Tradeweb and the smaller Trumid, which has led its investment-grade bond market share to be relatively stagnant and even deteriorate in recent months. To make matters worse, while MarketAxess retains a leading position in the US high-yield bond market, performance has been bad for over a year, with the firm seeing a material decline in market share. MarketAxess has responded by increasing its investment in its software and data tools, but 2025 will prove to be a crucial test to see if the firm can correct the negative trends in its US corporate bond business. Michael Miller, Morningstar analystRead more about MarketAxess Holdings here.
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy
Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
7m 30s
Sep 18, 2025
Watch
PayPal HoldingsMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.72Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowForward Dividend Yield: NoneIndustry: Credit ServicesPayPal was spun off from eBay in 2015 and provides electronic payment solutions to merchants and consumers, with a focus on online transactions. The firm earns a narrow economic moat rating, and the shares of its stock look 28% undervalued relative to our $94 fair value estimate.PayPal’s development of a network of both merchants and consumers early in the evolution of e-commerce allowed the company to build and maintain an enviable competitive position. Historically, PayPal’s growth had been driven by the ongoing shift toward electronic payments and the rise of e-commerce, which the coronavirus pandemic temporarily accelerated. However, the company ran into headwinds as the positives from the pandemic reversed and new competition arose. Management has attempted to combat the pressure on top-line growth with a greater focus on cost control and product innovation, with the ultimate goal of shifting toward more profitable growth. We see this evolution as the right move, but it will likely take some time to fully see the results. Additionally, PayPal’s online focus leaves it relatively exposed to a downturn in the economy, as online purchases tend to be discretionary. If the macro picture changes for the worse, this could swamp any underlying improvements in the near term.Longer term, we see a mix of competitive opportunities and threats that create a fairly wide range of outcomes. PayPal remains a unique player within the payments space. We think this remains its key strength, but its position on both the merchant and consumer side could be challenged over the long run. On the merchant side, new online-focused acquirers have emerged, and fintech innovation also appears to be concentrated in the e-commerce space. On the consumer side, services such as Apple Pay represent competition for PayPal. Competition on both sides could chip away at PayPal’s position. On the other hand, PayPal remains a preferred partner in the online space. Its Braintree business is becoming more profitable, and PayPal could build a growing presence in in-person transactions. In balance, we think the company can hold its own, but we recognize the potential to veer in either direction.An additional attraction is Venmo. Efforts to monetize the platform are still in the early stages, and Venmo will likely not be a major driver anytime soon. But we believe it has the potential to create upside above our current fair value estimate. Brett Horn, Morningstar senior analystRead more about PayPal Holdings here.TransUnionMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.73Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: WideForward Dividend Yield: 0.53%Industry: Financial Data & Stock ExchangesTransUnion is one of the three leading credit bureaus in the United States, providing the consumer information that is the basis for granting credit. The firm earns a wide economic moat rating, and the shares of its stock look 27% undervalued relative to our $120 fair value estimate.TransUnion is one of the Big Three consumer credit bureaus, along with Equifax and Experian. Given the fixed costs inherent in a data-intensive business, TransUnion has been able to generate meaningful margin expansion over the past several years.TransUnion’s core business is selling credit reports to US lenders, but as this business is the most mature, the company has sought other avenues of growth. One avenue has been expanding beyond financial institutions into verticals such as insurance, rental screening, collections, and other sectors. The emerging verticals business was 29% of the firm’s revenue in 2024, up from 21% in 2009. We believe this will help TransUnion weather a downturn as this revenue is diversified across industries and less macro-sensitive.TransUnion has sought to replicate its US playbook internationally. The most intriguing opportunity is in India, which, given the country’s large population, could be an evergreen source of growth for the firm. TransUnion’s early entry has allowed it to build a commanding market share here. While it will probably take many years to fully realize this market’s potential, we think the company’s leading position provides meaningful long-term upside.Since its public debut in 2015, TransUnion’s acquisition strategy has run the gamut from smaller bolt-on deals to larger acquisitions. Examples of bolt-on deals include Tru Optik and Signal Digital, which provide data and analytics for digital marketing. TransUnion’s larger deals include the $1.4 billion acquisition of UK credit bureau Callcredit in 2018, its $3.1 billion acquisition of Neustar in 2021, and its $638 million purchase of Sontiq in 2021. We believe TransUnion’s acquisitions have generally made strategic sense and have not weakened the firm’s moat, but the use of variable-rate debt to finance the 2021 deals proved to be untimely. Rajiv Bhatia, Morningstar analystRead more about TransUnion here. FactSetMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.74Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: MediumMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NarrowForward Dividend Yield: 1.54%Industry: Financial Data & Stock ExchangesFactSet provides financial data and portfolio analytics to the global investment community. Trading 26% below our fair value estimate, FactSet has an economic moat rating of narrow. We think shares of this stock are worth $385 per share.FactSet has built an attractive subscription-based business providing data and analytics to the financial-services industry. FactSet is best known for its research solutions, which include its core desktop offering geared toward buy-side asset managers and sell-side investment bankers. Research is the largest component of the firm’s annual subscription value but is FactSet’s slowest-growing segment due to its maturity and pressures on asset managers. In addition, as acquisition deal volume has decreased, this has pressured the investment banking side of FactSet’s research business.FactSet’s fastest-growing segments are its wealth business and its partnerships and CUSIP Global Services business, but these businesses only account for just over 30% of FactSet’s annual subscription value.FactSet has mostly grown organically, and its acquisition strategy has mostly focused on adding an additional data source or software capability. In March 2022, FactSet completed its purchase of CUSIP from S&P Global for $1.9 billion, its largest acquisition to date.Historically, FactSet’s adjusted operating margins have been range-bound in the low to mid-30s. However, as the firm increases scale, margins have gone higher. At its September 2024 investor day, it guided to medium-term margins in the 37% to 38% range. But investment spending suggests this will be a murky path, and FactSet’s initial fiscal 2026 outlook calls for margins of 34.8% at the midpoint, down from 36.3% in fiscal 2025.Given consolidation in the financial technology industry, FactSet could become an acquisition target. The industry has seen large deals such as LSE Group acquiring Refinitiv and S&P Global acquiring IHS Markit. We believe FactSet’s recurring revenue model could be attractive to potential acquirers, including private equity firms. Rajiv Bhatia, Morningstar analystRead more about FactSet here.
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Here is how different asset classes, as well as your spending, will be affected.
6m 40s
Sep 16, 2025
Watch
PrudentialMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.84Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: HighMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: NoneForward Dividend Yield: 1.73%Industry: Insurance - LifeOriginally established as Prudential Mutual Assurance, Investment, and Loan Association in 1848, Prudential plc has moved on a lot since then. This cheap stock looks 16% undervalued and has a fair value estimate of $33 per share.With the divestment of Prudential PLC’s UK and European operations, followed by the sale of its Jackson business in North America, Prudential is now a life and health insurer that is fully focused on Asia and Africa, with one of the region’s largest asset management businesses.Prudential is not the number-one operator. However, we do think the company is gaining traction and taking market share. Its roots stand in selling life insurance to the middle classes and branching out into the industrial and urbanizing working classes. While that happened almost two decades ago, we think that is still a relative narrative. The industrial division of Prudential led to the rise of door-to-door sales. The “man from the Pru” was born and for Prudential became synonymous. While that market may have matured and this practice has generally died, Prudential’s new geographical focus harkens back to these Industrial Revolution times, just in a different part of the world. Prudential’s more mature markets of Hong Kong and Singapore speak to the origination of the business to serve the middle class. Our sense is that in these markets, Prudential has been catering more to high net worths. Prudential’s establishment and focus on Southeast Asia is reminiscent of its sales and service to the rising industrial working class.While Prudential may not be the biggest and it may not be the first, we think the business has historically placed strong emphasis on pricing and underwriting discipline, and yet in this region it has been successful at combining that with growth. While margins on sales such as fees and loading costs have been pressured as competition has increased, Prudential has done a prodigious job of recouping this loss of profit from administration and acquisition costs. More telling is that, on average, Prudential improved the margin it makes from insurance by 5 basis points per year on average. The business hasn’t been operating for very long on a stand-alone basis. However, we think the markets and the company have some interesting features that could lead to economic profits—and, over time, a moat. Henry Heathfield, Morningstar analystRead more about Prudential here.S&P GlobalMorningstar Price/Fair Value: 0.86Morningstar Uncertainty Rating: LowMorningstar Economic Moat Rating: WideForward Dividend Yield: 0.78%Industry: Financial Data & Stock ExchangesFinancial data firm S&P Global rounds out our list of best financial-services stocks to buy. S&P Global provides data and benchmarks to capital and commodity market participants. The stock is 14% undervalued relative to our fair value estimate of $570 per share.Whether through credit ratings, financial indexes, or commodity price reporting, S&P Global has established a wide moat from its data-driven benchmarks. Given the embedded nature of these benchmarks, S&P enjoys a strong competitive position and strong operating margins. In February 2022, S&P completed its $44 billion acquisition of IHS Markit. We believe IHS Markit’s recurring revenue model diversified S&P’s revenue, limiting upside and downside scenarios for the firm.Bond issuance volume is a key revenue driver for S&P’s ratings business, which makes up almost 40% of the firm’s adjusted operating income. Over the long term, we believe high-single-digit revenue growth, driven by nominal GDP growth and pricing, is a reasonable expectation for this business. Regulatory issues are part of the backdrop of the firm’s ratings business, but regulations can often benefit established players.S&P’s other segments include market intelligence (21% of adjusted operating income), S&P Dow Jones indexes (16%), commodity insights (14%), and mobility (9%). S&P announced it will spin off its mobility division in 2026. While this business is moaty, in our view, we see limited fit with S&P’s other segments. Market intelligence revenue is recurring but faces competition from other providers such as Bloomberg, Refinitiv, and FactSet. The indexes segment revolves around the S&P 500 index and is monetized from index subscriptions to active asset managers, license fees for passive exchange-traded funds and mutual funds, and royalties from exchange-traded options and futures. Commodity insights consists of S&P’s legacy Platts business and IHS Markit’s resources segment.After spinning off its education business in 2013 and rebranding to S&P Global from McGraw Hill Financial, the firm has focused on expanding margins. Adjusted operating margin rose from 34% in 2013 to 55% in 2021, which we attribute to streamlining operations and revenue growth. However, given the inclusion of IHS Markit, which has some lower-margin businesses, we expect S&P Global to reach about 52% adjusted operating margins in 2029, compared with 49% in 2024. Rajiv Bhatia, Morningstar analystRead more about S&P Global here.How to Find More of the Best Financial-Services Stocks to BuyInvestors who’d like to extend their search for top financial-services stocks can do the following:Review Morningstar’s comprehensive list of financial-services stocks to investigate further.Stay up to date on the financial-services sector’s performance, key earnings reports, and more with Morningstar’s financial-services sector page.Read Morningstar’s Guide to Stock Investing to learn how our approach to investing can inform your stock-picking process.Use the Morningstar Investor screener to build a shortlist of financial-services stocks to research and watch.More of the Best Stocks to Buy The Best AI Stocks to Buy These stock picks stand to benefit most from developing artificial intelligence technologies. The Best Bank Stocks to Buy There’s opportunity to be found among the undervalued stocks of high-quality banks. The Best Biotech Stocks to Buy Thanks to rapid innovation and strong product launches, some biotech stocks look attractive again. The Best Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 10 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today. The Best Defensive Stocks to Buy These 10 defensive stocks supply investors with reliable earnings, and often dividends, when markets look uncertain. The Best Energy Stocks to Buy These five undervalued energy stocks look attractive today. The Best Healthcare Stocks to Buy These 10 undervalued healthcare stocks provide cheap entry points into a diverse industry. The Best Industrials Stocks to Buy These five companies have competitive advantages—and their stocks are undervalued. The Best REITs to Buy These seven undervalued real estate stocks pay dividends and trade at attractive prices. The Best Technology Stocks to Buy Seven undervalued stocks offering attractive prices in a predominantly overvalued sector.
This article was generated with the help of automation and reviewed by Morningstar editors.
Learn more about Morningstar’s use of automation.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Stocks
View All
CarMax Earnings: Magnitude of Consumers’ Unwillingness to Buy Is a Negative Surprise Lowering our fair value estimate on CarMax stock as macro headwinds hit.
David Whiston, CFA, CPA, CFE Sep 25, 2025
Marvell: Bullish Comments from CEO Bring Market Closer in Alignment With Our Thesis The comments affirmed our belief that Marvell is not going to lose artificial intelligence accelerator revenue next year.
William Kerwin, CFA Sep 25, 2025
8 Top-Performing Large-Growth Funds Fidelity dominates the list of best-performing large-growth funds.
Gabe Alpert Sep 25, 2025
About the Authors
View All Authors
Tori Brovet Content Development Editor
More from Author
Tori Brovet is a content development editor for Morningstar.
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now
Margaret Giles Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 22, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
Inherited IRAs: What to Know About Taxes, RMDs, and More
Tori Brovet Sep 15, 2025
The Best Basic Materials Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 12, 2025
The Best AI Stocks to Buy Now
Tori Brovet Sep 11, 2025
The Best Healthcare Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 10, 2025
The Best Bond Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 9, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Fixed-Income Investing
Tori Brovet Sep 8, 2025
Margaret Giles Editor
More from Author
Margaret Giles is a senior editor of content development for Morningstar.
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 25, 2025
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Christine Benz Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now
Margaret Giles Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 22, 2025
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Christine Benz Sep 18, 2025
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
The Best Communication-Services Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 15, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility