Support NPR and Public Radio : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Support NPR and Public Radio The shared mission of NPR and its Member stations — to create a more informed public — is made possible by the contributions of individuals and institutions.
Your support makes a difference.
February 12, 20199:40 AM ET
Enlarge this image
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
NPR
Support Public Radio Congress has passed a rescission bill to claw back funding for public media, but our commitment to you will never waver. NPR and a remarkable network of local stations across America will continue to bring you rigorous journalism, courageous storytelling, inspired music, and the kind of reporting that democracy depends on — every day, without fear or favor. This is the moment to join our community of supporters.  Your donation is more critical now than it has ever been. Every dollar helps. Make your gift today. Not just for yourself, but for the millions who benefit from this trusted public service.
SUPPORT PUBLIC RADIO
Give to NPR People and institutions are critical in ensuring that NPR has the funding needed to continue sharing stories that inform and inspire audiences.
LEARN MORE ABOUT GIVING TO NPR
Corporate Sponsorship Corporate sponsors sustain our mission, furthering our commitment to produce trusted journalism. As the sponsorship sales team for NPR, National Public Media offers companies the chance to make a positive impact in support of public radio.
LEARN MORE ABOUT CORPORATE SPONSORSHIP
Donor Privacy Statement NPR generally doesn't disclose information about its donors, except where permitted by the donor, required by law or government regulation, or as otherwise specified when we collect the information. We do publicly acknowledge donors above a certain level, unless a donor has requested anonymity, but do not include contact or other personal information about donors in our public listings of donors. In addition, we may share information about donors with Member stations that are associated with the donor on the NPR Services or that are local to the donor, unless the donor has requested anonymity. If you do not want us to share your name, contact information, or other information, including information about your donations to NPR, with Member stations, you can contact us any time. For more information, please see NPR's Privacy Policy. If you choose to donate to an NPR Member station through the NPR Services, your information may be collected directly by that Member station. In that case, the collection of your information is subject to that Member station's privacy policy.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor