Trump advances TikTok deal with new executive order : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump advances TikTok deal with new executive order The new order says that the deal to turn over a majority stake in TikTok to a group of U.S. investors meets the terms ordered by Congress, and will allow it to stay online in the U.S.
Business
Trump advances TikTok deal with new executive order
September 25, 20255:47 PM ET
John Ruwitch
The TikTok logo is displayed outside TikTok offices on March 12, 2024 in Culver City, California.
Mario Tama/Getty Images North America
hide caption
toggle caption
Mario Tama/Getty Images North America
President Trump gave his formal blessing on Thursday to a deal for a consortium of mostly U.S. investors to take over the short video app TikTok, signing an executive order green-lighting the spinoff and saying it has "good controls" in terms of security and safety. TikTok is owned by Beijing-based ByteDance, but a law passed last year requires the parent company to divest or the app will be banned in the United States over national security concerns. Trump's executive order says the deal meets the "qualified divestiture" standards required by Congress — proof that the app is no longer controlled by a foreign adversary.
Sponsor Message
The order says that under the deal, ByteDance will own less than 20 percent of the new entity, and the new venture will be run by a board of directors subject to rules that protect Americans' privacy. "I have determined that the proposed divestiture would allow the millions of Americans who enjoy TikTok every day to continue using it while also protecting national security," the president wrote in the executive order.
Business
Deal for TikTok creates U.S. joint venture, and government won't have a stake
At a signing event at the White House Thursday afternoon, Trump said there would be "probably four or five" investors in the new entity. He named Oracle founder Larry Ellison, Rupert Murdoch of News Corp fame, and Dell Technologies founder Michael Dell. A senior White House official said earlier this week the investment firm Silver Lake would also be involved. Vice President J.D. Vance, who has run point for the administration on efforts to forge a deal, told reporters the company will be valued at around $14 billion, which he said he thought was a good deal for investors. Asked how data privacy for U.S. users would be safeguarded under the new arrangement, Vance offered few details, but said: "What this deal ensures is that the American entity and the American investors will actually control the algorithm. We don't want this used as a propaganda tool by any foreign government."
Sponsor Message
TikTok says it has around 170 million users in the U.S. — about half of the population. That popularity — and its Chinese ownership — fueled concerns that the app could be used by the Chinese government to collect data on Americans or manipulate U.S. users with propaganda or disinformation. The Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act, signed into law last April, declares that apps run by foreign adversaries pose "unacceptable national security risks," and the only way to eliminate those risks is to switch ownership.
Technology
President Biden signs law to ban TikTok nationwide unless it is sold
Business
Supreme Court upholds TikTok ban, threatening app's existence in the U.S.
The law required ByteDance to sell off TikTok, otherwise it would be banned in the U.S. The Supreme Court upheld the law, despite TikTok's free speech challenge to it. But on Inauguration Day, Trump signed the first of several executive orders pausing enforcement of the ban. Meanwhile, the Trump administration has been trying to broker a deal for control to shift into American hands.
Business
Trump signs executive order to pause TikTok ban, provide immunity to tech firms
The deal that Trump approved on Thursday highlights a turnaround for the president, who tried to shut TikTok down during his first administration. On Thursday, he said he was "a little bit prejudiced" in favor of the app, which he credits with boosting his vote tally among young people in 2024 paving the way for his return to the White House. The fate of TikTok has been wrapped up in the broader power struggle between the United States and China, including negotiations over trade and tariffs. Vance said there had been "some resistance on the Chinese side" to getting the deal done. But Trump said he had had "a very good talk" with Chinese leader Xi Jinping by phone last week, and that "he gave us the go-ahead." Trump and Xi will meet in about five weeks at an Asia-Pacific leaders' summit in South Korea, and Trump has said he plans to visit China next year, with Xi making a reciprocal visit to the United States "at an appropriate time."
TikTok
social media
China
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor