Education - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Politics
Education
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
My daughter is studying abroad in Italy this semester. I didn't expect to be this panicked about the distance.
4 min read
From Elon Musk to Mark Zuckerberg, these are the high-profile billionaires throwing their support behind schools
9 min read
The 100 most useful ChatGPT prompts voted on by college students who attended an OpenAI session
Nick Turley, the head of ChatGPT, said the company invited students to its virtual lab "to swap their best chats."
3 min read
I'm a first-year medical student at Stanford. From working on cadavers to 12-hour lecture days, this is what a week in my life is like.
As a medical student at Stanford University, my schedule is packed. I examine cadavers and spend hours in lectures. I love the community I'm building.
5 min read
AI has turned college exams into a 'wicked problem' with no obvious fix, researchers warn
Professors are overwhelmed and students are in limbo with no obvious way out, a research paper published earlier in September said.
3 min read
I thought I'd be less stressed when my kids headed back to school. I was wrong.
My kid had been back in school for two hours and 29 minutes when I got the first call asking me to come get him. It's overwhelming as a working mom.
4 min read
Inside elite Ivy League prep for the ultrawealthy: $30K semesters, hand-picked internships, and custom-built résumés
A former Ivy League admissions officer reveals how the ultrawealthy craft résumés and experiences to boost their kids' chances.
4 min read
When I dropped my son off at college and became an empty nester, I was hit with intense grief. It nearly broke me.
When I became an empty nester, old wounds were opened. I had to finally face the grief of losing my first son over a decade ago.
4 min read
Look inside Institut auf dem Rosenberg, an elite boarding school in Switzerland that costs over $200,000 a year
Institut auf dem Rosenberg, a private, international boarding school in Switzerland, has dorms with hardwood floors and en-suite marble bathrooms.
6 min read
My son asked not to be contacted for a couple of days after his college move-in. The boundary helped us both adapt to our new normal.
When my son set the boundary, it hurt. I wanted to hear all about his first days in college, but I knew he needed his space, and I needed to readjust.
4 min read
I attended an academically rigorous magnet high school. I loved it, but I wanted something different for my daughter.
I loved my magnet high school, but it forced me to be perfect. I want my daughter to enjoy high school and not be overwhelmed with school work.
4 min read
I gave my daughter a cellphone when she was 8. I still don't think they belong in schools.
My daughter started walking alone to school so I gave her a phone. I still don't think they belong in schools, and she's told me they are distracting.
5 min read
I teach at a community college. Sticking closer to home has benefits for students.
I've taught at both a 4-year university and a community college. More students should consider sticking closer to home for their schooling.
4 min read
High school seniors are struggling with math and reading — and it's worse than ever before
The NAEP test, or Nation's Report Card, showed a plunge in 12th-grade math and reading in its first scores since the pandemic.
3 min read
I spent a year at the US's top party school, after moving from Scotland to California. It taught me an unexpected lesson about success.
As a former University of California, Santa Barbara exchange student, I'm not surprised it was recently named the US's top party school. But it offered me so much more than that.
5 min read
The 50 best public high schools in America
Some of the states with the highest share of high-ranking public school are Illinois, New York, New Jersey, and Arizona.
16 min read
Amanda Hoover
Is the Class of 2029 the most screwed college class ever?
Today's college freshmen face sky-high tuition and debt, shaky career paths, and mixed messaging on AI. Universities are scrambling to respond.
11 min read
As a high school teacher, I see first hand how a lack of motivation can impact teens. Here's how parents can help them feel more inspired.
A lack of academic motivation is impacting high school students in a big way. To find out why, I asked my own students what drives them.
5 min read
I homeschooled my son for 2 years before sending him to public school. He's happier now, but he excelled academically at home.
When my son was homeschooled, we focused on the subjects that interested him. Now that he's in public school, he's more focused on friends.
4 min read
My daughter's university alerted me of a possible shooting. There's no parenting book that teaches us how to handle this.
I got a text from Auburn University alerting me of police presence at the school. It turned out to be a hoax, and my daughter was safe.
4 min read
I helped my daughter through the chaotic college application process. But there's one aspect no one talks about: the waiting.
College application season is filled with chaos, but I didn't expect the waiting periods to be the most stressful. Turning to Facebook groups helped.
3 min read
As a mom of 5, I can't buy everything new for back-to-school. Here are my tricks for not breaking the bank.
As a mom of five I can't afford to buy all new things for my kids. I stick to the essential shopping list and second-hand clothes.
5 min read
Principal of the school promoted by Bill Ackman says teacher pay starts at $100K and kids can earn money to fund projects
The principal of Alpha School, which has been promoted by Bill Ackman, said its approach to academics includes personalized AI lesson plans.
4 min read
Why South Korea's AI rollback in classrooms is a cautionary tale for the US
South Korea tried to enforce AI textbooks in all classrooms. Parents and teachers pushed back.
5 min read
Rivian's CEO explains why he got a Ph.D. — and why he chose MIT over Stanford
Rivian CEO RJ Scaringe said he needed credibility when pitching his electric vehicle company. A Ph.D. from MIT helped.
2 min read
Master's programs at National University of Singapore prepare students for the future of healthcare
NUS is equipping future healthcare leaders with new MSc programs in precision medicine and behavioral science.
6 min read
As a Columbia graduate student, I thought an Ivy League degree would guarantee me a job. I was wrong.
When I graduated from Columbia with a master's, everyone in my family looked up to me. But I couldn't land a job, so I felt like a failed Ivy Leaguer.
3 min read
I'm a member of UC Berkeley's highly competitive business club. Getting in is nearly impossible, but the privileges are worth it.
The acceptance rate to my UC Berkeley business club is less than 1%. Once I got in, I got access to lavish dinners and job opportunities.
4 min read
College wasn't right for me, so I joined the Marines. I was able to travel and avoid student loan debt.
I didn't want to waste four years in college, accruing debt. All I wanted was to work and travel. Joining the Marines allowed me to do exactly that.
3 min read
AI isn't just helping students cheat — it's exposing how broken the education system is, prominent academic says
AI tools like ChatGPT are exposing outdated teaching methods — and schools are failing to adapt, Tyler Cowen said.
3 min read
I graduated from Stanford a few months ago but can't land a job. I'm working 3 part-time gigs and struggling with shame.
I graduated from Stanford with two degrees, but I can't land a full-time job. Instead, I work three part-time gigs. I'm struggling to tell my family.
5 min read
Torn between Amsterdam and the US for grad school, she made a pros and cons list to guide her decision. Take a look.
Singaporean student Royanne Ng weighed reputation, cost, and relevance in her grad school pros and cons list — and chose Amsterdam over the US.
5 min read
I was accepted into UC Berkeley with a full scholarship, but the cost of moving to California was still too high. I turned down the offer.
Getting into UC Berkeley with a full-ride scholarship was a dream come true. But I knew I couldn't afford California, and I wanted to be near family.
4 min read
I saved over $100,000 while studying at Yale. When I graduated, I helped buy my immigrant parents a house in New York City.
My parents struggled to afford rent in New York City, so while at Yale, I worked many jobs. I used my $100,000 savings toward a down payment for them.
5 min read
I'm planning every aspect of my son's college dorm room with the moms of his future roommates. I wonder if we've gone too far.
The group chat started when our sons chose to room together in college. I didn't expect us moms to plan their color scheme or buy fancy kitchen items.
4 min read
I've been an English teacher for 20 years, and my students are now relying on AI to do everything. It's making my job impossible.
My students have started using AI and ChatGPT to write their essays and answer any questions they have. It's become impossible to prevent cheating.
4 min read
My 4-year old is starting school soon. It feels like a new chapter in her life that I'm not ready for.
My 4-year-old is transitioning to primary school in a few weeks. She's ready and excited. I'm not.
3 min read
I teach college students and their horror stories of dorm life make me thankful I lived at home when I was in school
I thought I was missing out by not living in a dorm. Since then, my college students have shared enough horror stories to change my mind.
3 min read
All the US presidents who attended Ivy League universities
Harvard University, which is embroiled in legal disputes with the Trump administration, has educated eight US presidents.
4 min read
American students are applying for British universities in record numbers after Trump's college crackdown
A record 7,930 US students applied to UK universities for the fall, as President Donald Trump targets elite American colleges.
2 min read
I'm a teacher who has integrated AI and ChatGPT into my classroom. It saves me time and helps me be a more efficient educator.
Teachers focus so much on how students might use AI to cheat that we have forgotten how it can help us in the classroom. It makes me more efficient.
3 min read
19 college majors where the typical graduate is making at least $100,000 by the middle of their careers
Engineering accounts for 10 of the 19 highest-paying college majors, per the New York Fed's analysis of typical mid-career wages.
4 min read
My kids are home from college for the summer, and I immediately started treating them like children again. That was a mistake.
When my kids came home from college, I immediately went back to mom mode. I had to remind myself that they are young adults and independent.
3 min read
I'm an American who moved to China. After 7 years, I run a profitable startup and make friends through badminton.
While studying at MIT, Joshua Charles Woodard realized that being fluent in Chinese and knowing how to build products would be a killer combination.
5 min read
I just graduated from Yale. Now, I'm back with my family in low-income housing, and I'm not sure where I belong.
I grew up in a tight-knit, low-income building. After four years at an Ivy League school, coming home has left me feeling completely lost.
4 min read
I secured over 20 scholarships — enough to pay for my first 2 years of college. It was a huge relief and gave me confidence.
I started applying to scholarships in my freshman year of high school. The funding has given me peace of mind when I had to switch schools.
4 min read
My 17-year-old will probably skip college and attend flight school instead. I think that's a smart plan.
My wife and I both have bachelor's degrees. Our son might not follow the same path and we're okay with that.
4 min read
I moved home after graduating from college and worked remotely. I saved thousands, but it came with an emotional cost.
I moved back home after college to save on rent. It was a smart financial move, but I struggled to have a social life and lacked independence.
4 min read
Going back to school at 33 was humbling. I had to let go of my ego and ask younger students for help.
Going back to school as a 33-year-old-parent shook my confidence in a way I wasn't prepared for. Things that once came easily to me took more effort.
4 min read
I'm in med school and refuse to take on student loan debt. I'm living frugally and have taken 2 years off to build a financial cushion.
I put my education on hold so I could earn enough money to pay for my tuition. I also want to graduate debt-free, so I'm sacrificing a lot.
4 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.