This Steam user just got an achievement for owning 40,000 games
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Steam
You'd need to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to get anywhere near SonixLegend's Steam game collection
This Steam user just got an achievement for owning 40,000 games, and that's the least wild part
By
Patricia Hernandez
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Your favorite Dropout comedians return in Make Some Noise season 4 next month
3 days ago
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
3 days ago
Amid Jimmy Kimmel backlash, Disney’s Star Wars trailer looks like a Jedi mind trick
3 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Illustration: Inkee Wang for Polygon
Owning too many games that you never play is practically a meme on Steam, but one user might blow everyone else out of the water judging by the number of games they own. SonixLegend is a Steam user from China who has the distinction of owning 40,000 games, for which they earned a "Game Collector" badge on the platform on September 23, 2025. They are the only person on Steam to have this achievement, and it took them 15 years to get there. Steam offers badges that users can display on their public Steam profiles, and there's a set tied to the number of games you own. You can get a badge for owning a single game, but the tiers go up progressively all the way up to 40,000. There's no higher tier currently, which makes sense when you consider that in 2024 alone, Steam added a little under 19,000 games. Owning games is almost a game onto its own, as evidenced by the game collection leaderboard that SonixLegend now tops. To crack into the top 100 of this leaderboard, you need to own at least 19,000 games. Top ten? You gotta have at least 33,000 titles. Good luck! What makes this achievement particularly impressive is that SonixLegend seems to have run right past it. They reached 40,000 within the last 24 hours ... except as of this writing, there's 40,029 games in their account. Perhaps they're gunning for the addition of badges for 45,000? Whatever the case, it would take SonixLegend at least seven years of non-stop playtime to get through their entire collection, assuming they take the most economical path to get there. In terms of current value, the games add up to $644,904. But their actual account is somehow only worth $250,041 according to SteamDB. Another startling detail to consider here: SonixLegend technically owns over 97,000 titles in their account, but over half of them are shovelware that Valve will not count toward your badge total.
Image: Steam via Polygon
You'd think that, at this level, the person involved might not even be gaming much at all. But no, SonixLegends is legit. Their favorite game is Alien Swarm, the free-to-play co-op survival game made by Valve designers hired from the modding community on the platform. SonixLegends has put 551 hours into Alien Swarm, and they've nabbed every achievement in the 2010 game. Actually, SonixLegend has completed at least 34 games "perfectly," which Steam designates as any titles where you manage to get every single achievement. But with this many games on the line, there's no way for SonixLegends to cover all their bases. Sure enough, the value of their unplayed games adds up to $241,524. That's multiple years' worth of salaries thrown into the ether, AKA Gabe Newell's wallet. The most expensive thing they own is 3DF Zephyr Lite Steam Edition, a 3D modeling application that retails at $249.99. Otherwise, every other game in their top 20 most expensive titles all cost $199.99. Some of these items are barely functional at all. One of the 199.99 games, Hexaluga, has a "mostly negative" review consensus on Steam, hailing from users who say the game is unfinished. "Selling this game is fraud," one review reads. "As an attorney in real life, I do not use the term fraud flippantly. There is no game here, and you should not pay for it." But when you're trying to get the 40,000 game collector badge, you can't be selective about what games get you over the finish line. "Got this as a throw-in with a G2A purchase and I still feel scammed," reads a review for Mine Royale, another $199.99 game in SonixLegend's collection. Out of their entire collection, SonixLegends has only written reviews for 20 games. They're a fan of Black Myth: Wukong, but as far as SonixLegends is concerned, you should not play Coronavirus Attack. "A rubbish game made by rubbish," SonixLegends wrote. Now, how long do you think it takes SonixLegends to decide what to boot up when they log into Steam?
News
PC
Feature
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
How a death metal singer helped bring Dead by Daylight’s Thai boogeyman to life
4 days ago
28 Years Later: The zombies are doing what?
4 days ago
Julia Fox shot an alternate ending for Him, and has opinions on what could have come next
3 days ago
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
The eyeball alien got no payoff in Alien: Earth's finale, and I'm mad about it
Cronos: The New Dawn's cats bring its protagonist to life
Ghost of Yōtei is as close as PlayStation can get to an old Hollywood epic
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.