Gated Content | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Stocks
Switching to Nasdaq Is Good for Your Stock
June 12, 2023 — 07:27 pm EDT
Written by
Nasdaq's Economic Research Team
Over the years, Nasdaq has welcomed thousands of new companies to our market. However, not all of these companies started life on Nasdaq at the time of their initial public offering (IPO). Many companies joined Nasdaq by switching their stock exchange listing from other listing venues, and experienced better trading quality as a result.
Nasdaq has won 76% of all switches among U.S. equities exchanges since 2005. Some of the household names that switched to Nasdaq include PepsiCo, Sanofi, T-Mobile, Kraft Foods, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Exelon, Workday, and recently announced AstraZeneca and Keurig Dr. Pepper.
We've shown before that stocks listed on Nasdaq experience less volatility, tighter spreads and more depth. But it can be hard to compare apples-to-apples when the underlying companies are different.
For the Nasdaq Economic Research team, exchange listing switches are a unique and unbiased means of comparing listing venues. Gone are stock-specific factors that drive volatility, spreads, or closing volumes differences. It is the exact same ticker symbol, at the same price, but with a primary listing on two different markets, mere weeks apart.
Data shows that once a stock has switched from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to Nasdaq, the amount of shares on the best price improve, spreads contract, and volatility improves. We also see more liquidity in these symbols during closing auctions.
Improved NBBO Spreads and Size
Tighter spreads and more depth at the inside quote decrease costs to investors. This is unchallenged. More liquidity at a tighter spread reduces the costs for investors to build large positions.
Data shows that for companies that switched to Nasdaq, the average spread decreased 0.3 basis points (bps).
Chart 1: Spreads fell after switching to Nasdaq
Source: Nasdaq Economic Research. Duration-weighted NBBO spread from 9:30AM-4PM averaged daily on a symbol level.
We also found that after the switch to Nasdaq, depth in these companies increased 8.5%, measured as the dollar value at the best quote.
In addition to tighter spreads making it cheaper to trade, this also makes it easier for investors to get larger trades done.
Chart 2: Value on the best quote increased after switching to Nasdaq
Source: Nasdaq Economic Research. Duration-weighted NBBO dollar size from 9:30AM-4PM averaged daily on a symbol level.
Reduced Intraday Volatility
One of the key differences between Nasdaq markets and its competitors is the way we incentivize multiple market makers, rather than just creating obligations for a single one. That brings many different views to the market and tends to result in more competitive quotes and two-sided flow.
Switch data confirms that Nasdaq's market structure helps lower short-term volatility. This result is in stark contrast to the oft-stated view that a single firm should be better at minimizing volatility. This is a misnomer debunked by the Wall Street Journal.
Chart 3: Intraday volatility decreased after switching to Nasdaq
Source: Nasdaq Economic Research. 5 minute high/ low volatility from 9:30AM-4PM averaged daily on a symbol level.
A Better Close
The closing auction is the largest daily liquidity event in the U.S. stock markets. The quality of price discovery in the auction directly affects index providers and the official prices used to calculate portfolio performance, stock returns and volatility.
Nasdaq's closing auction operates very differently from that of the New York Stock Exchange. Our closing auction is more transparent and equal for all. After 3:55 PM ET we don't allow traders to change their mind about market-on-close orders, but traders can provide additional liquidity into the close to offset imbalances. Academic studies that mathematically account for different stock characteristics have shown our close has more transparency and less price deviation.
Exchange switching data confirms this analysis.
Following the exchange transfer to Nasdaq, the company's stock garnered more liquidity and achieved increased price stability heading into the close. We saw the same improvements looking at closing auction price dislocation and spreads in the last five minutes of the day, after all imbalance news from both primary exchanges had been made public.
Chart 4: Closing auction dislocations decreased after switching to Nasdaq
For exchange switches to Nasdaq, we also found that liquidity increased at the close. In fact, the average closing volume increased to about 6.6% of total volume from 5.83% before the switch.
That means that following the stock listing switch to Nasdaq, not only did daily consolidated volumes increase, but the closing cross volumes increased even more.
Larger auctions with less price dislocations are important to investors. The close is an optimal time to invest cash, as it is a large pool of cheap liquidity that also minimizes portfolio risk (tracking error). More volume allows larger trades to be executed at, or very close to, the closing auction price.
Chart 5: Closing auction volumes increased after switching to Nasdaq
Source: Nasdaq Economic Research. Total Closing Cross Volume as % of Total Consolidated Volume averaged daily.
How Did We Do This?
Our analysis focused on large companies with market capitalizations of $5 billion or more that switched stock exchange listings from NYSE to Nasdaq in the past 10 years. We removed exchange switches associated with M&A deals, spin-offs, and large rebranding events, as these events can change the fundamentals of the underlying stock and/or index membership, making direct comparisons less valid.
That left 29 switches in total. We then computed changes in overall market volatility, spreads, liquidity and depth for the two months immediately before and after the switch.
What Does This All Mean?
Although we've conducted other studies that show our market quality is superior to our competitors, comparing different stocks is sometimes challenging, because spreads, liquidity and volatility can vary due to stock-specific factors rather than market factors. Our exchange switching analysis gives us true apples-to-apples comparisons: the exact same stock ticker on two different markets separated by just weeks.
The results show that stocks that have switched to Nasdaq see improvements in intraday volatility, spreads, liquidity and the close.
For companies looking to make the switch to Nasdaq from the NYSE, this data should make the decision to “flip the switch” that much easier.
Tags
US Markets
Subscribe to Nasdaq+ for full access.
Exclusive content, detailed data sets, and best-in-class trade insights to rewrite your portfolio for tomorrow.
Try Now ->
Nasdaq's Economic Research Team
Economic Research Team
More articles by this author->
Market Makers
Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest on the transformative forces shaping the global economy, delivered every Thursday.
Thanks for submitting!
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
My Quotes
My Quotes
My European Quotes
Watchlist
Portfolio
Add/Edit Symbols
View as Table
Add symbols now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Stocks, Funds, ETFs and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Instruments
View as Table
Add instruments now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Shares, Indexes, ETP and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Symbols
Edit Watchlist
Your Watchlist is empty.
Add/Edit Symbols
Create your Watchlist to save your favorite quotes on Nasdaq.com. Log in or create a free account to get started.
/
Outsmart the market with Smart Portfolio analytical tools powered by TipRanks. Go to Smart Portfolio
Back
Add a symbol to your watchlist
Most Active
Data is currently not available
Edit My Quotes
Add up to 25 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to My Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Edit My European Quotes
Add up to 25 instruments
To add instruments:
Type a instrument or company name. When the instrument you want to add appears, add it to My European Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple instruments separated by spaces.
These instruments will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Your symbols have been updated
You'll now be able to see real-time price and activity for your symbols on the My Quotes of Nasdaq.com.
Continue
Data is currently not available
Edit Watchlist
Add up to 20 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to Watchlist by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Opt in to Smart Portfolio
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties, please try again.
Smart Portfolio is supported by our partner TipRanks. By connecting my portfolio to TipRanks Smart Portfolio I agree to their Terms of Use.
Submit
Cancel
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies