Ukraine warns UN about AI drone war, 'destructive arms race' : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Ukraine warns UN about AI drone war, 'destructive arms race' Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed the U.N. General Assembly a day after President Trump made another shift in his stance on Russia's war in Ukraine.
Special Series Ukraine invasion — explained
The roots of Russia's invasion of Ukraine go back decades and run deep. The current conflict is more than one country fighting to take over another; it is — in the words of one U.S. official — a shift in "the world order."Here are some helpful stories to make sense of it all.
Ukraine's Zelenskyy issues a stark warning about a global arms race and AI war
September 24, 202511:41 AM ET
Alex Leff
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addresses the 80th session of the U.N. General Assembly in New York on Wednesday.
Richard Drew/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Richard Drew/AP
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned of a dangerous artificial intelligence-driven war and arms race as he called on world leaders to help stop Russia's invasion of his country.
Ukraine invasion — explained
Trump, in major shift, suggests Ukraine can win back territory long held by Russia
He was speaking at the United Nations General Assembly in New York on Wednesday, a day after President Trump shifted his public position in support of Ukraine defeating Russia. "It's only a matter of time, not much, before drones are fighting drones, attacking critical infrastructure and targeting people all by themselves, fully autonomous and no human involved, except the few who control AI systems," Zelenskyy said, calling for global rules on how AI can be used in weapons. "We are now living through the most destructive arms race in human history because this time, it includes artificial intelligence."
Sponsor Message
Ukraine invasion — explained
How to reintegrate over a million veterans? Groups in Ukraine are working on it
He also suggested drones could one day be used to deliver nuclear warheads. Zelenskyy's address came at a time of heightened alarm in Europe after recent Russian drone incursions into some of NATO's eastern member states, which raised fears of a regional spillover from Russia's 3 1/2-year-old, full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
"Ukraine is only the first and now Russian drones are already flying across Europe, and Russian operations are already spreading across countries, and Putin wants to continue this war by expanding it," Zelenskyy said. A day earlier, President Trump met with Zelenskyy and announced a new optimism about Ukraine's prospects against Russia. "After getting to know and fully understand the Ukraine/Russia Military and Economic situation and, after seeing the Economic trouble it is causing Russia, I think Ukraine, with the support of the European Union, is in a position to fight and WIN all of Ukraine back in its original form," Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform.
Ukraine invasion — explained
Hegseth: 'Returning to Ukraine's pre-2014 borders is an unrealistic objective'
Trump and senior administration officials previously insisted Kyiv would need to give up territory to Moscow — such as Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014 — to end the war. Asked by a journalist if Trump thinks NATO members should shoot down Russian aircraft that violate their airspace, the U.S. president responded: "Yes, I do."
Loading...
Ukraine
Russia-Ukraine war
volodymyr zelenskyy
Russia
Russia Ukraine
Donald Trump
United Nations
united nations general assembly
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor