I'm a browser expert and Vivaldi's new customizable tab bar is a game-changer | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Work Life
Productivity
I'm a browser expert and Vivaldi's new customizable tab bar is a game-changer
Do you prefer customizing everything? The Vivaldi web browser now allows you to tweak the tab bar - any bar, actually! - to your heart's content.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 11:24 a.m. PT
Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysThe Vivaldi browser has a new release with many additions.You can fully customize the look and feel of the Tab Bar - and other bars.Vertical tab fans will especially appreciate the new options.I enjoy a good aesthetic. If you've followed me long enough, you totally get that. I will not cave to the ordinary. If you were to take a look at any given desktop (or laptop, or mobile device), you'll immediately see what I mean. Honestly, I cannot remember a time when I've accepted the default aesthetic on an app (unless said app doesn't allow theming and tweaking -- yeah, I'm talking to you, Spotify). Also: Keep your data out of third-party clouds by self-hosting - here's howI've spent countless hours customizing my desktops and the apps that run on them. So, it should come as no surprise that I was happy to hear the Vivaldi browser now allows you to fully customize the tab bar.Huzzah.I immediately opened the browser and started customizing. With the latest iteration of Vivaldi, you can customize not only
the tab bar, but all the bars (address bar, status bar, and even the panel). The customizations allow you to add or remove elements from the various bars and, thanks to the theming engine, you can make the tab bar really stand out. Now, I prefer vertical tabs in every browser I use (which is why there are some browsers I simply don't want to work with), so being able to customize the tab bar becomes even more important to me. (After all, the vertical version of the tab bar is considerably wider than the top or bottom versions.)Also: Live and work by lists? I found two genius apps that make them even easier to createLet me show you how I customized my tab bar in Vivaldi.Enabling vertical tabsThe first thing you'll want to do is enable vertical tabs. Here's how.
1. Open Vivaldi
Of course, to do this, you must open the Vivaldi browser.
Show more
2. Open Settings
Click the gear icon at the bottom right corner of the Vivaldi window to open Settings.
Show more
3. Enable vertical tabs
Click Tabs in the Settings sidebar and then select Left or Right to enable vertical tabs.
Show more
You can further customize Vivaldi's tab feature here. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETIf you like, you can also head over to the Themes tab in Settings and customize the theme. For me, I click Editor in the Themes page, disable "Accent from Page" and "Accent on Window".Close the Settings window.Also: My top 4 browsers after testing nearly every one (spoiler: Chrome doesn't make the list)Adding and removing itemsNow it's time to add and remove items from the Tab bar. To do that, follow these steps.1. Open the tab customization window
Vivaldi is one of the more customizable browsers on the market. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETRight-click on the tab bar and select Customize Toolbar. Once that pop-up appears, make sure Tab Bar is selected from the drop-down.2. Add and remove itemsYou should see several icons for different items, such as Workspaces, New Tab, Synced Tabs, Closed Tabs, Tab Button, Space, Flexible Space, Panel Width Space, and Separator. You can drag any of those items to the Tab bar. If there's an item already on your Tab bar that you don't want, click and drag it off the Tab bar to remove it.
You can add or remove whatever you want here. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETOnce you've finished, click Done to dismiss the Toolbar Editor. One final thing you can do is customize the width of the vertical Tab Bar. To do that, click on the inner edge of the Tab Bar and drag it to the left to make it smaller or to the right to make it larger. Also: The best password managers: Expert testedYou can customize the Tab Bar to be totally empty or filled with items. Either way, you can customize Vivaldi to look and perform exactly how you want. If you're a themer like me, the ability to fully customize the Vivaldi Tab Bar is a big deal.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This popular Android Auto feature might be coming back - here's why
MacOS Tahoe finally turned me into a desktop widget user - here's why
Why ZorinOS 18 might be the new best Linux distro - and I've tried them all
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use