The NIH Director | National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
(LockA locked padlock)
or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Menu
Health Information
Health Information
Health Info Lines
MedlinePlus Health Info
Science Education Resources
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You
Your Healthiest Self: Wellness Toolkits
NIH News in Health
Talking With Your Doctor or Health Care Provider
Grants & Funding
Grants & Funding
Grants Home Page
Find Funding
Due Dates
How to Apply
New to NIH
Policy & Compliance
Grants News/Blog
Contracts
Loan Repayment
News & Events
News & Events
News Releases
Media Inquiries
NIH on Social Media
Images and B-roll
Calendar of Events
NIH News Publications
Research & Training
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation & Guidance
Lasker Clinical Research Scholars
Institutes at NIH
Institutes at NIH
List of Institutes and Centers
NIH Office of the Director
Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers
NIH Institute and Center Contact Information
About NIH
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
En Español
Search
Search
Breadcrumb
Home
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
Director’s Seminar Series
NIH Director Statements
Previous NIH Directors
Advisory Groups
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
The NIH Director
Biography of Jay Bhattacharya, M.D., Ph.D.
Image
Jayanta "Jay" Bhattacharya, M.D., Ph.D., took the helm as 18th director of the National Institutes of Health, the nation’s medical research agency, on April 1, 2025. President Trump nominated Dr. Bhattacharya for the position on Nov. 26, 2024, and the U.S. Senate confirmed him on March 25, 2025.
Dr. Bhattacharya, a renowned doctor, researcher, health economist, previously held a tenured professorship in the medical school at Stanford University in California. His research focused on population aging and chronic disease, particularly on the health and well-being of vulnerable populations. He has published over 170 research papers in peer-reviewed journals in medicine, epidemiology, health policy, economics, statistics, science policy, and public health, as well as a leading textbook on health economics.
During the pandemic, Dr. Bhattacharya coauthored the Great Barrington Declaration, which called for opening schools and lifting lockdowns while better protecting older populations who were most vulnerable to the disease.
Dr. Bhattacharya held numerous additional appointments at Stanford University, including courtesy appointments at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, the Stanford Freeman Spogli Institute and Stanford’s Hoover Institution, and Economics department. Previously, he conducted research at the National Bureau of Economic Research and the SPHERE Institute, a policy research firm. Before joining Stanford, he was an economist at the RAND Corporation and worked as a visiting economics professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Dr. Bhattacharya is a longtime NIH grantee and has served as a standing member of multiple NIH review committees. He earned his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in economics from Stanford University. He then completed medical school and earned a Ph.D. in economics also from Stanford University.
This page last reviewed on April 18, 2025
Footer menu
NIH Home
Contact Us
En Español
Virtual Tour
Visitor Information
FAQs
NIH on Social Media
Press Room
NIH Website Archives
National Institutes of Health
9000 Rockville Pike
Bethesda, Maryland 20892
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health®
Follow Us
www.nih.gov
An official website of the Department of Health and Human Services
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility
Freedom of Information Act
No Fear Act
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Office of Inspector General
Nondiscrimination Notice
Looking for U.S. government information and services?
Visit USA.gov
Subir