I took 1,000 photos with the Google Pixel 10 Pro in Hawaii, and it made me emotional | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
I took 1,000 photos with the Google Pixel 10 Pro in Hawaii, and it made me emotional
A week in Hawaii for my daughter's wedding became the best time to test the Google Pixel 10 Pro. Here are the results.
Written by
Matthew Miller, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 1:30 a.m. PT
Matthew Miller/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. 	ZDNET's key takeaways
Google's photo prowess may be the best out there due to its software tuning. 	 The Pro Res Zoom brought to life objects that were barely visible to the naked eye. 	 Night photography, seamless editing, and other features added to an amazing camera experience. 		After decades of covering mobile devices -- and a personal obsession with always having the latest and greatest smartphones -- I never travel with just one. For my middle daughter's wedding in Hawaii, I packed five flagships to document the week: the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7, Apple iPhone 16 Pro Max, Vivo X200, OnePlus 13, and Google Pixel 10 Pro.Also: How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)It didn't take long to crown a clear winner. After the first event, the Pixel 10 Pro stood out as the most reliable and versatile option. Its effortless point-and-shoot experience, exceptional image quality across all lighting conditions, and powerful on-device editing made it my go-to device. I even passed it around to family members throughout the week -- and now I'm sorting through thousands of photos and videos, most of which came from the Pixel.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETI was particularly impressed by Google's Pro Res Zoom functionality, which provides up to 100x zoom on the Pixel 10 Pro and 10 Pro XL. The Tensor G5 powers Pro Res Zoom, and the 10 Pro impressed everyone when I captured turtles on the beach, flowers from afar, wildlife joining us for breakfast, and more. The phone helped capture objects that we could barely see with the naked eye while still maintaining excellent clarity.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETThe Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 is my current daily driver, and its zoom capabilities are solid -- good enough that I reached for it a few times to capture wildlife and the vivid detail of Hawaiian flora. But in nearly every instance, the Pixel 10 Pro delivered noticeably sharper, more detailed results.Also: The secrets that make Pixel 10 Pro the world's smartest phone camera - from inside GoogleThe difference comes down to optics and software. The Pixel 10 Pro features a 5x optical zoom lens compared to the Z Fold 7's 3x. It also supports up to 100x digital zoom, far exceeding the Z Fold's 30x limit. That extra reach, and the image clarity that came with it, made all the difference when shooting distant subjects.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETWith the wedding events held on the shores of Hawaii, I captured a few panoramic shots and found the updated panorama capture guidance to be flawless, with beach and lava content looking beautiful on the Pixel 10 Pro.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETWe had about 60 guests joining us in Hawaii, so we spent a lot of time at the reception trying to capture group shots. The Auto Best Take function, which automatically turns on when taking a group photo, helped us capture the best of each person without any editing or manual selection later on. Also: Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's whyMy wife was especially impressed with Google's ability to use AI to fix photos she captured while dancing and moving that she would normally delete because they were too blurry.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETI have not been impressed with the battery life of Pixel devices in the past, so I was worried about the six-hour wedding and reception schedule. However, the Pixel 10 Pro helped us capture more than 500 photos and videos before the battery finally ran out. Thankfully, Google also now supports fast charging, so I was able to charge up the phone and keep going the next morning.
There's a helpful cropped viewfinder that shows you where you're focusing when zooming. Matthew Miller/ZDNETNow that I am home, I plan to try many more functions and features, including using natural prompts in Google Photos to edit photos and having Camera Coach guide me to take better photos. Things were moving too fast and furious during the wedding week for me to pay attention to the coach, but I hope to explore this function soon. Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's why
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared the flagship handsets, and there's a winner
I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use