Pumpkin Snickerdoodles Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Caramel Snickerdoodle Bars
Pumpkin Brownies
Snickerdoodles
Apple Snickerdoodle Dump Cake
Pumpkin Whoopie Pies
Pumpkin Cupcakes
Pumpkin Chocolate Chip Cookies
Cinnamon Chip Chai-Spiced Snickerdoodles
Pumpkin Cookie Pops
Snickerdoodle Cheesecake
Snickerdoodle Ice Cream Sandwich Minis
Snickerdoodle Blondies
Pumpkin Ginger Dog Biscuits
Pumpkin Blondies
Snickerdoodle Muffins
Snickerdoodle Cheesecake Bars
Pumpkin Burgers
Gingersnap-Pumpkin Dessert
Holiday Eggnog Snickerdoodles
Pumpkin Snickerdoodles Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCookiesSnickerdoodle Cookies
Pumpkin Snickerdoodles
Pumpkin Snickerdoodles Recipe photo by Taste of Home
5 | 2 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 35 min. + chilling Bake: 15 min./batch
By
Val Goodrich
Recipe by Brittney Greene, Cypress, Texas
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 22, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Pumpkin snickerdoodles are the autumnal upgrade of the namesake classic cookie, thanks to canned pumpkin and a few fall spices.
As it turns out, snickerdoodles are one ingredient away from becoming the perfect fall cookie. They already have the quintessential fall spice (cinnamon) in the sugar coating, so adding canned pumpkin seems like the perfect addition. Include a few other fall spices like nutmeg and ground ginger, et voila! Pumpkin snickerdoodles are chewy, pumpkiny and lightly spiced with the signature snickerdoodle tang and crackly coating. These are some of my very favorite fall cookies.
Ingredients for Pumpkin Snickerdoodles
Butter: Soften the butter to room temperature so it creams nicely with the sugar. Creaming the butter and sugar together the right way adds a lot of nice volume and chewiness to the cookies.
Sugars: Our pumpkin snickerdoodle recipe uses a mix of granulated and brown sugars. Granulated sugar creates a crispy outside, and brown sugar maintains a moist center and a subtle caramel flavor.
Canned pumpkin: At Taste of Home, we’ve found that canned pumpkin delivers more consistent results than homemade pumpkin puree. And yes, there is a best canned pumpkin brand that beats out the rest!
Egg yolk: We’ll need just one egg yolk to bind the ingredients. Egg yolks add richness and fat, while egg whites can dry out cookies a bit. Save your egg white for an egg white cocktail (like a pisco sour or gin fizz) or for tomorrow morning’s scrambled eggs.
All-purpose flour: All-purpose flour is the best flour for cookies. Its mix of hard and soft wheat creates a tender cookie that’s strong and sturdy enough not to break apart in your hand.
Cornstarch: Cornstarch soaks up some of the liquid in the pumpkin puree so the cookies stay chewy instead of becoming cakey.
Spices: Our pumpkin snickerdoodle cookie recipe has a lot of spice from cinnamon, nutmeg and ground ginger. I always like to grate my nutmeg fresh for the boldest flavor.
Cream of tartar: True snickerdoodles contain cream of tartar to give the cookies that signature snickerdoodle tang and pillowy texture.
Leavening agents: A perfect mixture of baking soda and baking powder makes our pumpkin snickerdoodle cookies even more pillowy soft.
Directions
Step 1: Make the dough
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a large bowl, use a hand mixer or stand mixer to cream the softened butter, granulated sugar and brown sugar until they’re light and fluffy, five to seven minutes. Beat in the pumpkin, egg yolk and vanilla extract.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
In another bowl, whisk together the all-purpose flour, cornstarch, cinnamon, cream of tartar, baking soda, baking powder, salt, nutmeg and ginger.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Gradually beat the flour mixture into the creamed mixture just until combined. Cover and refrigerate the dough until firm, about one hour.
Step 2: Coat the cookie dough balls
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Preheat the oven to 350°F. In a small bowl, stir together the granulated sugar and cinnamon.
Scoop the dough by 2 tablespoonfuls, then shape the dough into balls. Roll the balls in the cinnamon sugar, and place them 2 inches apart on parchment-lined baking sheets.
Step 3: Bake
Bake the cookies until they’re browned, 14 to 16 minutes. Let the cookies stand on the baking sheet for five minutes, then move them to wire racks to cool.
Editor’s Tip: Do not let the cookies bake longer than necessary or they will dry out.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Recipe Variations
Include white chocolate chips: Fold white chocolate chips into the batter before forming the dough into balls. Or, half-dip the baked and cooled pumpkin snickerdoodles into melted white chocolate, then place them on a parchment-lined baking sheet so the chocolate can set.
Use pumpkin pie spice instead: Instead of measuring all three spices individually, omit them for 2-1/2 teaspoons of pumpkin pie spice for the same effect. Pumpkin pie spice usually contains cloves, too, creating more cozy fall flavors in the pumpkin snickerdoodle cookie recipe.
How to Store Pumpkin Snickerdoodles
Store pumpkin snickerdoodles in an airtight container at room temperature. They’ll stay soft and tender this way and can last up to four days.
Can you freeze pumpkin snickerdoodles?
Yes, you can freeze pumpkin snickerdoodles, baked or unbaked. To freeze unbaked dough, make the dough, roll it into balls and freeze. Take the balls out of the freezer and allow them to thaw for about 30 minutes before rolling them in the cinnamon sugar and baking.
To freeze baked pumpkin snickerdoodles, allow them to cool completely to room temperature, then store them in an airtight container with pieces of parchment or waxed paper between stacks to prevent them from sticking. Thaw on the counter for about an hour.
Can you make pumpkin snickerdoodles ahead of time?
Yes, you can make pumpkin snickerdoodle cookies ahead of time. Bake them the day before and store them in an airtight container, or make and freeze them ahead of time with our freezing directions above.
Pumpkin Snickerdoodle Tips
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Can you skip the cream or tartar?
Unfortunately, I don’t recommend skipping the cream of tartar. It’s an essential ingredient in snickerdoodle recipes, giving the cookies their signature tang and pillowy texture.
What should you do with the leftover canned pumpkin?
There are lots of genius ways to use leftover pumpkin puree. Save it for homemade pumpkin spice lattes, use it in your morning oatmeal, layer it into a parfait, bake a few more pumpkin cookies (’tis the season!) or treat your very good puppy to from-scratch pumpkin dog biscuits.
Do you have to squeeze out the liquid from the pumpkin puree?
No, you don’t have to squeeze out the liquid from the pumpkin puree. We add enough all-purpose flour and cornstarch to our pumpkin snickerdoodle recipe to prevent the cookies from becoming cakey.
Test Kitchen Approved
Pumpkin Snickerdoodles
5 | 2 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:about 2-1/2 dozen
Prep:35 min
Cook:15 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup packed brown sugar
3/4 cup canned pumpkin
1 each large egg yolk, room temperature
1-1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3-1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3-1/2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
rolling sugar:
1/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. Cream sugars and butter until fluffy, 5-7 minutes; beat in pumpkin, egg and vanilla. In another bowl, whisk together flour, cornstarch, cinnamon, cream of tartar, baking soda, baking powder, salt, nutmeg and ginger; gradually beat into creamed mixture. Refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour.
In a small bowl, combine sugar and cinnamon. Scoop or shape dough by 2 tablespoonfuls; roll in cinnamon sugar. Place 2 in. apart on parchment-lined baking sheets.
Bake until browned, 14-16 minutes. Let stand on baking sheet 5 minutes before removing to wire racks to cool.
Nutrition Facts
1 cookie: 164 calories, 6g fat (4g saturated fat), 22mg cholesterol, 93mg sodium, 25g carbohydrate (14g sugars, 1g fiber), 2g protein.
Author
Val Goodrich
Val channels her experience from the Culinary Institute of America and a number of bakeries into her daily work at Taste of Home. She’s usually typing away at her desk in Philly, but otherwise, you can find her planning her next trip abroad, using her ice cream maker or filling her basket at the farmers market.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
These soft pumpkin snickerdoodles will satisfy that pumpkin spice craving come autumn. They're sweet, spicy, and have just the right amount of pumpkin flavor. —Brittney Greene, Cypress, Texas
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box