The iPhone Air Could Trigger a Thin Phone Avalanche - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test phones
apple event
TechMobile Phones
The iPhone Air Could Trigger a Thin Phone Avalanche
But don't just credit Apple -- other phone-makers have been putting out thin devices all year.
David Lumb Senior Reporter David Lumb is a senior reporter covering mobile and gaming spaces. Over the last decade, he's reviewed phones for TechRadar as well as covered tech, gaming, and culture for Engadget, Popular Mechanics, NBC Asian America, Increment, Fast Company and others. As a true Californian, he lives for coffee, beaches and burritos. Expertise Smartphones | Gaming | Telecom industry | Mobile semiconductors | Mobile gaming
See full bio
David Lumb
Sept. 12, 2025
11:59 a.m. PT 7 min read
The iPhone Air, the slimmest smarthphone to date, from three angles. Patrick Holland/CNET
The biggest announcement coming out of the iPhone 17 series' launch event earlier this week wasn't about the most powerful iPhone yet -- it was for the thinnest. At 5.6mm, or less than a quarter of an inch, the iPhone Air stole the show. And even though it was far from the first mainstream "thin phone," it may just kick off the trend in a major way in the years to come.There's a long-running sentiment in the mobile industry around Apple's impact on phone trends: Once the iPhone-maker makes a strong design choice, other companies follow. That was true in 2007 when the company debuted the original iPhone (and others followed the front glass touchscreen design), true when the iPad debuted to popularize the tablet format and was sadly true when it got rid of the headphone jack.
So the big question is: Will the iPhone Air make thin phones mainstream? Probably not, says CNET Senior Technology Reporter Abrar Al-Heeti, who was on the ground at Apple headquarters for the launch event and got hands-on time with the new, skinny iPhone. But now, the thin phone niche is being reinforced by a brand with some of the most loyal fans."Apple isn't necessarily setting a trend with the iPhone Air, since so many phone manufacturers have already developed thin phones," Al-Heeti said. "But it may have legitimized the form factor among people who have wanted a thin phone and sworn allegiance to Apple's products."Preorder the iPhone Air at Best BuyDon't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.There are a couple reasons Apple would make a thin iPhone. The most obvious: The company believes consumers want one. It wouldn't be alone in that thinking, as Samsung debuted its Galaxy S25 Edge earlier this year. We're still waiting for official sales tallies to see if buyers were eager to opt for a 5.8mm phone over its 7.2mm and thicker S25 series siblings. Leaked info suggests sales were underwhelming, according to The Elec, but Al-Heeti found that, "I've grown so used to its thin, lightweight design that holding any other phone feels like a drag."The iPhone Air is the biggest redesign to the iPhone in some time, and judging by the X-ray cutaways of the new device during the launch event, Apple has performed some technical wizardry in cramming nearly all the chips and hardware into the top of the phone to achieve its 5.6mm profile. Aesthetically, it's a new page in the company's product book, a way for Apple to appeal to another subsegment of customers, said Nabila Popal, senior director of the International Data Corporation's data and analytics team."The iPhone Air is Apple's thinnest phone ever and its boldest design move since the iPhone X," Popal said. "It will draw in users who love sleek aesthetics, while the Pro lineup takes the crown for majority of users prioritizing battery and camera performance." Analysts I spoke to agreed that the iPhone Air serves a few purposes, from replacing the iPhone 16 Plus with a more premium choice in Apple's lineup to serving as a showcase device for the company's emerging technologies (like its in-house C1X modem and N1 connectivity chip). But they also pushed back on the idea that the iPhone Air would open the floodgates for thinner phones."I think we knew thin and light phones were going to be coming regardless of Apple's launch," said Anshel Sag, principal analyst at Moor Insights and Strategy.What role does the iPhone Air play?Thus far, the iPhone Air and Galaxy S25 Edge have both been slotted into the middle of their lineups, offering an aesthetic choice that nevertheless had slight specs upgrades over their standard iPhone 17 and Galaxy S25 siblings, respectively. They are the novelties in the middle of more-of-the-same, and perhaps arrive at the right time amid not much other innovation.This iPhone generation is less about introducing breakthrough specs and more about cleverly rearranging the price bands and distinguishing the design differences at each tier, said Counterpoint Research Associate Director David Naranjo."The iPhone Air is the wild card -- if it resonates, Apple widens the premium middle and lifts the margin mix without needing a Pro-class camera across the board," Naranjo said.
The Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge, another incredibly thin phone. Jesse Orrall/CNETThat single 48-megapixel camera on the back of the iPhone Air is its biggest obvious deficiency. (We'll wait for our full review to see how other factors like its battery life and performance measure up.) At $999 to start, it has a similar solo camera setup as the $599 iPhone 16E. Even the Galaxy S25 Edge managed to retain an ultrawide rear camera. Clearly, there's a price to pay for going thin."I just think that this first generation of really thin phones make lots of compromises, whether it's on battery capacity or camera configuration that I hope will be resolved with time," Sag said. "Much like we've seen on foldables."Sag is bullish that the Air will sell exceptionally well, and believes that its camera and battery capabilities will improve with time. In some ways, it still is a first-generation device, and later years' Air devices may manage to cram in more cameras and battery capacity. Apple is running into the same design constraints as other phone-makers who have attempted to make thin handsets in the past, pointed out Avi Greengart, president and lead analyst at Techspontential. He pointed to the modular Motorola Moto Z that launched in 2016, which was 5.2mm thick on its own but needed its magnetic battery accessory clipped to the back that added bulk: "Without that accessory, the Moto Z was too compromised, and it didn't sell well," Greengart said.
Apple's selling a MagSafe battery accessory for the iPhone Air. Apple/Screenshot by CNETBattery life has been the chief concern for thin phones. Losing space inside a phone means something has to give, and that's assumed to have been battery capacity. Though they have the same size screen, the Galaxy S25 Plus has a 4,900 mAh battery while the thin Galaxy S25 Edge's is 3,900 mAh. For its part, Apple doesn't share specifics on capacity. But during the iPhone 17 launch event, the company promised the iPhone Air would have all-day battery life… and then immediately introduced a MagSafe charging pack. That got a laugh out of the attending press in the audience.Whether or not the iPhone Air sells at mass volumes, it does open up opportunities for Apple -- not just for a new customer subset, but for whatever Apple might be working on. IDC's Popal explicitly noted that the thinner phone's design paves "the road to a foldable iPhone possibly next year." She's not alone in thinking so."I think a lot of these thin phones are much more an engineering exercise to enable better foldables," said Sag.Does the iPhone Air lay groundwork for the iPhone Flip?Apple has reportedly been working on a foldable iPhone, sometimes referred to as the iPhone Flip, since potentially before the COVID-19 pandemic started in 2020. While the first foldable phones debuted that year from Samsung and Motorola, they were in rough shape, but subsequent iterations over the years increased their durability and features. While leaks and rumors suggest Apple has been working toward its own folding device, some of those early reports claim the inability to reduce the on-screen crease, where it folds, has delayed its release.
The iPhone Air as seen from the side. Note the enlarged camera bump, where most of the the phone's hardware is located. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETScreen tech aside, the iPhone Air does seem like a stepping stone to an iPhone Flip, which is rumored to be a clamshell foldable like the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7. Relocating most of the hardware to the top half of the new iPhone is something that appears to be the popular way for companies to lay out the internals of their clamshell foldables -- just look at iFixit's Z Flip 6 teardown, where the bottom half of the device is essentially just the larger battery pack (a smaller one is paired with the chips and most hardware in the top half). Getting the iPhone Air down to 5.6mm thick is also important for making sure a folded-up iPhone Flip isn't too bulky. Recent book-style foldables released this year have been thinner than ever: The Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 is only 8.9mm when folded shut (or 4.2mm when unfolded), while the Oppo Find N5 is roughly identical at 8.93mm thick when folded (or 4.21mm when unfolded flat). Even the Google Pixel 10 Pro Fold isn't much thicker at 10.8mm when folded closed (or 5.2mm when unfolded).Thus, Apple has good reason to trim away at the thickness of its iPhones, even if sales don't take off for this first generation of the iPhone Air. But beyond making a marketable product out of R&D milestones, it's also an experiment, of sorts, to see if consumers will be entranced enough by thinness alone."Apple is betting that advanced materials, eSIM, and more efficient silicon now enable a smartphone experience good enough to allow consumers' emotional decision making to take over," Techsponential's Greengart said. "Super-thin, super-dense phones like the iPhone Air and Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge feel extremely nice."
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.