Katie Bandurski, Author at Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Katie Bandurski
Milwaukee, WI
School: Drake University, 2018
Expertise: Product testing; baking; home decor; cooking techniques; holidays; food news
Follow:
Katie Bandurski
Senior shopping editor
Former associate digital editor, Taste of Home
Former assistant digital editor, Taste of Home
Former digital staff writer, Better Homes & Gardens
Graduated magna cum laude from Drake University in 2018 with a major in Magazine Journalism and minors in Marketing and English.
Pioneer of the shopping team. To date, Katie has reviewed 100s of items in the food, kitchen, holiday and home spaces.
Over 8 years of experience in the home and food industry, including four years on the Taste of Home editorial team working on recipe collections and newsletters.
Contributed to over 2,000 Taste of Home articles to date as writer or editor.
Oversaw ideation and production of 30+ content clusters to date, covering everything from Christmas trees to pizza ovens.
Experience
As Taste of Home's senior shopping editor, Katie connects readers with the best gifts, kitchen gear and home items on the market. An avid foodie and a holiday enthusiast, Katie is an expert at cultivating meaningful moments. It is her personal mission to help readers find quality products that will make their lives easier and more joyful. She has personally tested hundreds of products, ranging from Christmas trees to coffee gear and, of course, cookware. Before joining the shopping team, Katie worked as a digital staff writer at Better Homes & Gardens and on the Taste of Home editorial team. She has over eight years of experience in the home and food space. When she’s out of the office, you’ll find her exploring Wisconsin with her husband, trying out new vegetarian recipes and watching Christmas movies.
Education
Drake University, bachelor's degree in Magazine Journalism, 2018. Minor in Marketing.
Taste of Home Editorial Policies
Taste of Home, a Trusted Media Brand, has been a reliable source for recipes, cooking tips and entertaining advice for more than 30 years. Every month, our content inspires well over 20 million home cooks to get creative in the kitchen. Each one of our 40 thousand recipes has gone through a rigorous testing and approval process to ensure we’re sharing the very best. Every snack, ingredient and product we recommend is tested by our team of culinary experts and professional product testers—the best of the best earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval. Learn more about Taste of Home and our Test Kitchen and editorial teams.
Articles & Recipes
We Tried the Papier Stationery Advent Calendar That Sells Out Every Year This beauty comes with impressive contents—and a $175 price tag. Is it worth the hype?
The Cozy Earth Cuddle Blanket Is Expensive, But It’s the Softest Throw You’ll Ever Touch And now it's the only thing I want to unwrap on Christmas morning.
Tumble Rugs Review: Do These Washable Rugs Really Live Up to the Hype? We tested a Tumble washable rug for three months. Here's how it went.
More Articles
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box