Culture Matters: Putting Fundholders First Drives Success | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
The Tone From the Top
Stable, Cheap, and Highly Rated
A Good Guide to Future Success
Retention Equals Stability
Eating Their Own Cooking
Low Fees’ Enduring Advantage
Lineup Turnover is Disruptive
Stars Bode Well for Success
Home
Funds
Culture Matters: Putting Fundholders First Drives Success
Culture Matters: Putting Fundholders First Drives Success
Morningstar research highlights key attributes of successful fund families.
Alyssa Stankiewicz
,
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA
, and
Maciej Kowara
Sep 16, 2025
Share
If you’re looking to increase your odds of investing success, stick with fund companies that offer inexpensive funds run by stable investment teams that invest alongside fundholders.Those are some of the takeaways of Morningstar’s first global Parent Rating Report, which looked at key traits of the more than 300 fund families that Morningstar analysts cover and more than 6,000 firms in Morningstar’s database.Get the full report: The Morningstar Parent Rating Report The Tone From the TopMorningstar assigns Parent ratings to all the asset management companies it covers and collects data on. Parent is one of the three pillars of the Morningstar Medalist Rating. Like the other two pillars, People and Process, the Parent rating ranges across five points: High, Above Average, Average, Below Average, and Low. Morningstar’s assessment of an asset manager’s investment culture and commercial practices determines where it falls on that scale.A firm’s investment culture includes its ability to attract, develop, and retain talent. The best firms nurture talented portfolio managers and analysts and plan transitions well in advance. Good parents pay their investment professionals in ways that align their interests with fundholders—they compensate managers for delivering returns, not gathering assets—and encourage managers to invest their own money in the strategies they run. Top firms also have appropriate risk-management personnel and tools. Commercial practices include the less flashy elements of running an asset-management business, such as product development, capacity management, distribution, fees, and day-to-day operations. These elements are easy to overlook but critical to investors’ experiences. Good parents keep a close eye on fees, don’t launch new strategies unless they have enduring investment merit, and ensure all areas of the firm are well-staffed.Senior leadership sets the tone from the top by presenting a clear vision for the firm. This includes daily operations, strategic overhauls, mergers and acquisitions, and brand management. One size does not fit all. A boutique with few employees can be as well-run as an acquisitive global leviathan with thousands of personnel. The key is not letting operational issues or poor management impede investors from achieving their investment goals.Stable, Cheap, and Highly RatedHalf of the firms Morningstar analysts cover earn Average Parent ratings. These firms tend to be industry standard. The overall quality of these firms’ offerings can be inconsistent or lack a strong competitive edge, but includes strategies with higher Medalist Ratings. Morningstar tends to cover firms and strategies with best-in-class approaches in their respective wheelhouses, so our Parent ratings do not fall on a normal distribution; there are many more Above Averages ratings than Below Averages.
Parent Data by Analyst-Assigned Parent Rating
Source: Morningstar Research. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.Firms that earn higher Parent ratings tend to share positive attributes. They create stable, inexpensive fund lineups that garner higher Medalist Ratings and Morningstar Ratings (commonly known as star ratings); they also have more experienced portfolio managers and higher rates of manager retention.A Good Guide to Future SuccessIn general, Morningstar’s Parent ratings do a good job of pointing to future success, especially over longer periods. The exhibit below shows the relationship between qualitatively assigned Parent ratings and their subsequent average Morningstar success ratios. The success ratio measures the percentage of a firm’s funds that have both survived and beaten the median peer in their respective categories on a risk-adjusted basis (as measured by Morningstar Risk-Adjusted Return). We grouped firms according to their Parent ratings as of December 2021, 2019, and 2014, then compared their average success ratios over the subsequent three-, five-, and 10-year periods.
Average Risk-Adjusted Success Ratio by Analyst-Assigned Parent Rating
Source: Morningstar Research. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.In December 2014, more than 20 firms earned High Parent ratings. Over the following 10 years through December 2024, more than half of those firms’ funds in 2014 survived and beat peers, on average. Less than 30% of the lineups of the roughly 150 firms with Average Parent ratings in 2014 met the same definition of success on average over the same period.Retention Equals StabilityRetention signals stability, and those firms that demonstrate the ability to keep managers around for the long haul typically generate stronger performance. The exhibit below shows the relationship between five-year manager retention rates and subsequent average success ratios. The retention rate is lowered by any portfolio manager who retires, leaves the firm, or moves to another, non-portfolio manager role at the firm.
Average Risk-Adjusted Success Ratio by Retention Rate, All Firms
Source: Morningstar Research. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.The effects of strong retention appear to compound over time, and its relationship to long-term success is positive, suggesting continuity benefits investors.Eating Their Own CookingWhen portfolio managers own the funds they run, they show conviction in the strategies and align their interests with fundholders. They also demonstrate confidence that the firm will support the strategies with appropriate resources over time. Manager co-investment counts, and there is a positive relationship between those firms with strong manager ownership and higher subsequent absolute and risk-adjusted success ratios.
Average Risk-Adjusted Success Ratio by Manager Ownership Rate, US Firms*
Source: Morningstar Research. *This exhibit looks at manager ownership data for US-domiciled funds because this disclosure is sparse outside the US. In the US, the SEC requires mutual fund and ETF managers to reveal how much money they have in the funds they manage in bands ranging from nothing to more than USD 1 million. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.Over all periods studied, firms with strong co-investment across 100% of their assets had higher subsequent success ratios than those with slim-to-no ownership. Firms with low levels of manager ownership lagged peers over the trailing five- and 10-year periods ended December 2024.Low Fees’ Enduring AdvantageThat low fund expenses lead to peer-beating returns is well-known. Over each of the periods measured, firms that charged the lowest fees achieved the strongest absolute and risk-adjusted success ratios on average. Over the 10-year period ended December 2024, the most affordable firms posted a risk-adjusted success ratio of 50% on average, while the most expensive firms’ risk-adjusted success ratio was just 24% on average.
Average Risk-Adjusted Success Ratio by Fee Ranks, All Firms
Source: Morningstar Research. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.The above exhibit groups firms according to their Average Global Combined Fee Levels. This calculation begins by percentile-ranking each share class’ expense ratio, or, where expense ratios are unavailable, Representative Cost ex-Transaction Fee within its relevant category peer group. These individual share class fee levels are then averaged to determine an Average Global Combined Fee Level for the firm.Lineup Turnover is DisruptiveAs investor preferences and the asset management industry evolve, so too do asset managers’ fund offerings. The number of funds and ETFs globally has increased substantially over time, but not all funds make it. Some struggle to perform, and others never grow large enough to be economically viable. Although some lineup turnover can be healthy, high levels of product proliferation and rationalization can be disruptive.The following exhibit aims to measure whether high levels of lineup turnover persist and drag on subsequent average success ratios. Firms are first grouped according to their 10-year lineup turnover rates as of December 2021, 2019, and 2014, before being compared based on their average success ratios over subsequent three-, five-, and 10-year periods.
Average Risk-Adjusted Success Ratio by Lineup Turnover Rate, All Firms
Source: Morningstar Research. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.When firms merge funds to lower fees or shut down the poorest performers, the effect should promote success, but the results don’t necessarily show this. Rather, the firms that experienced high historical levels of lineup turnover continued to struggle in the following years. Asset managers that made no lineup changes posted the strongest performance in subsequent years.Stars Bode Well for SuccessThe Morningstar Rating for funds is a quantitative, backward-looking measure of a fund’s past risk-adjusted performance relative to its category peers. The following exhibit examines the relationship between a firm’s average Morningstar Rating and its subsequent success ratio. The relationship is impressive: Of all the measures evaluated in this paper, a firm’s average Morningstar Rating has the strongest relationship to its future average success ratio.
Average Risk-Adjusted Success Ratio by Morningstar Ratings, All Firms
Source: Morningstar Research. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Download CSV.Past studies have shown that the Morningstar Rating bears a strong positive relationship to future performance at the fund level, but this is one of the first papers to examine the relationship at the asset manager level. Caveats include the fact that these results exclude funds that have been merged or liquidated; firms tend to obsolete their worst performers. Nonetheless, the relationship’s strength suggests that firms that provide solid risk-adjusted performance continue to outperform.For more insights into Morningstar’s Parent ratings and the characteristics that correlate with success, download the full report here.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
9 Top-Performing Large-Value Funds Funds from Invesco, Natixis, and BNY Mellon are among the best performers.
Gabe Alpert Sep 18, 2025
The 2 ETFs That Track Congressional Stock Trades These vehicles shed light on how Democratic and Republican members of Congress invest their money.
Zachary Evens Sep 18, 2025
Why We Highly Rate American Funds American Mutual A solid income-oriented approach.
Stephen Welch Sep 18, 2025
About the Authors
View All Authors
Alyssa Stankiewicz Associate Director
More from Author
Alyssa Stankiewicz is an associate director of parent research for Morningstar.
Culture Matters: Putting Fundholders First Drives Success
Alyssa Stankiewicz Sep 16, 2025
Women Account for a Smaller Percentage of Managers Today, Compared With 2002
Alyssa Stankiewicz Mar 7, 2025
5 Funds for Investing in Racial and Ethnic Diversity
Alyssa Stankiewicz Feb 3, 2025
These 2 Fund Families Earned the Most Overall Ratings Upgrades in 2024
Alyssa Stankiewicz Dec 27, 2024
Key Takeaways From Our First Diversity in Asset Management Report
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Nov 19, 2024
The Top US Fund Families in 5 Charts
Alyssa Stankiewicz Oct 15, 2024
How Well Do Sustainable Funds Deliver on Their Goals?
Alyssa Stankiewicz Feb 9, 2024
ESG Fund Returns Recover, but Still Trail Conventional Peers by a Small Margin
Mahi Roy Feb 5, 2024
U.S. Sustainable Funds Register First Annual Outflows in 2023
Alyssa Stankiewicz Jan 17, 2024
Top-Rated ESG Funds You Haven’t Heard of ... Yet
Alyssa Stankiewicz Dec 6, 2023
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Senior Principal
More from Author
Bridget Hughes, CFA, is senior principal, parent ratings, for Morningstar.
Culture Matters: Putting Fundholders First Drives Success
Alyssa Stankiewicz Sep 16, 2025
What Investors Need to Know About Private Assets Managers
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Aug 28, 2025
Slow Way Out: When Semiliquid Fund Exits Get Too Crowded
Jason Kephart Jul 3, 2025
Morningstar Awards for Investing Excellence: Exemplary Stewardship Nominees
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Jun 16, 2025
Unlikely Allies: Vanguard and Others Team Up to Offer Private-Market Investments
Jason Kephart May 22, 2025
Low-Cost Provider Vanguard Gathers the Most Fee Revenue
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Feb 13, 2025
Key Takeaways From Our First Diversity in Asset Management Report
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Nov 19, 2024
The Top US Fund Families in 5 Charts
Alyssa Stankiewicz Oct 15, 2024
8 Fund Families the Mutual Fund Trading Scandal Changed Forever
Gabriel Denis Sep 8, 2023
Morningstar Awards for Investing Excellence: Exemplary Stewardship Nominees
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Apr 11, 2022
Maciej Kowara Principal
More from Author
Maciej Kowara is a principal, fixed-income strategies, for Morningstar.
Culture Matters: Putting Fundholders First Drives Success
Alyssa Stankiewicz Sep 16, 2025
At Vanguard, a Tale of Two Volatilities
Maciej Kowara Mar 12, 2025
The Bond Market Faces 4 Big Risks
Alec Lucas Oct 31, 2024
Which Funds Are Contrarian?
Maciej Kowara Sep 11, 2024
How to Get the Most Out of Your Bond Investments
Alec Lucas Feb 23, 2024
How to Invest Better With Bonds
Alec Lucas Oct 30, 2023
When Bond Prices Are a Matter of Opinion
Eric Jacobson Jan 20, 2021
In the Absence of Inflation, Some Real Assets Are Down but Certainly Not Out
Bobby Blue Sep 18, 2020
Where Are the Liquid Alternative Shareholders’ Yachts?
Jason Kephart Aug 12, 2020
Topsy-Turvy: How to React if Your Fund’s Rankings Went Upside Down This Quarter
Josh Charlson May 4, 2020
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility