Disney Investors Demand Internal Records on Jimmy Kimmel's Suspension - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Disney investors demand internal records on Jimmy Kimmel's suspension, say the board may have breached duties
By
Katherine Li
Disney shareholders, such as the American Federation of Teachers and Reporters Without Borders, are demanding records on Disney's brief suspension of Jimmy Kimmel.
MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS
2025-09-24T23:50:35Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
A group of Disney shareholders is demanding records on Disney's brief suspension of Kimmel.
Kimmel was pulled off the air after FCC Chair Brendon Carr criticized the host's comments.
Shareholders said in a letter that they suspect Disney's board may have prioritized politics over company interests.
Jimmy Kimmel's return to ABC may have pleased his fans, but it did not entirely pacify Disney shareholders.
On Wednesday, a coalition of Disney shareholders sent a letter to the company demanding internal records, from emails to meeting schedules, related to its brief suspension of the late-night host. Disney is the parent company of ABC, where Kimmel's show is aired.Lawyers representing the American Federation of Teachers and Reporters Without Borders asked Disney to disclose how the suspension decision was made, the financial impact assessment, Disney's agreements with affiliates Nexstar and Sinclair, and communications with government officials or political groups.
"Although we are pleased that ABC did the right thing and put Jimmy Kimmel back on the air last night, due to the Trump administration's continued threats to free speech, including with respect to ABC, we are writing to seek transparency into the initial decision to suspend Mr. Kimmel and his show," wrote the lawyers in a letter viewed by Business Insider."There is a credible basis to suspect that the Board and executives may have breached their fiduciary duties of loyalty, care, and good faith by placing improper political or affiliate considerations above the best interests of the Company and its stockholders," the lawyers added in the letter addressed to Bob Iger, Disney's CEO.Nextstar, an ABC affiliate, pulled "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" off the air after FCC chair Brendan Carr publicly condemned Kimmel's comments about Charlie Kirk and warned that broadcast licenses could be reviewed in a podcast. ABC, which is owned by Disney, then said it would suspend Kimmel's show "indefinitely," which sparked widespread concerns over speech freedom and censorship.
Disney shares fell around 3.3% between Kimmel's suspension on September 17 and his reinstatement on September 23. Nextstar and Sinclair, both of which own a significant number of local ABC stations, have yet to reveal any plans to air Kimmel's show, though his comeback show on Tuesday night became his most-watched YouTube video of the year and reached 6.26 million viewers.Under state laws of Delaware, where Disney is incorporated, shareholders can request access to corporate books and records to probe potential misconduct, though the scope is usually limited to board-level decisions. The shareholders have warned Disney in the letter that they would take the company to court if the documents aren't turned over within five business days.Disney did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Recommended video
Media
Disney
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account