Keurig Milk Frother Review 2025: Hot or Cold Cafe-Style Sips
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Your Ultimate Guide to Different Types of Coffee
How to Make Your Own Coffee Creamer
Frothy Cafe Bombon
Nespresso vs. Keurig: Which Single-Serve Coffee Maker Is Right for You?
Here's How to Make Your Favorite Starbucks Refresher at Home
People Are Making Ice Cream with Coffee Creamer—Here's the Simple Recipe
Coffee Milk
Be Your Own Barista with the Mr. Coffee Single-Serve Latte, Iced and Hot Coffee Maker
Coffee Ice Cream
Keurig K-Mini Plus Review: The Small-But-Mighty Morning Helper
8 Homemade Coffee Creamers That'll Boost Your Morning Brew
Homemade Coffee Ice Cream
Keurig K-Elite Review: This Is Our Product Testing Team's Favorite Keurig Coffee Maker
How to Make a Starbucks Copycat Iced Latte at Home
You Can Make a Starbucks Pumpkin Cream Cold Brew at Home—Here's How
We Tried HyperChiller, the Instant Iced Coffee Maker
This $17 Milk Frother Is the Reason I Stopped Going to Starbucks
I Tried the Nutribullet Brew Choice Coffeemaker and It Changed My Mornings!
This Coffee Creamer Hack Will Make Your Morning SO Much Easier
People Are Combining Coffee with Ice Cream at McDonald's for the Best Caffeine Fix
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Home
Stuff We Love
Expert Product Reviews & Buying Guides
Keurig’s At-Home Milk Frother Turns Any Coffee Into a Cafe-Style Drink
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
By
Emily Way
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Aug. 28, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Enjoy hot or cold cafe-style drinks in seconds with this Keurig milk frother.
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
Making a true cafe-style latte boils down to two must-haves: some kind of coffee or espresso machine and a steam wand or milk frother. If you haven’t tried a milk frother, you’re seriously missing out. They’re the easiest, fastest way to enjoy foam-topped cappuccinos, lattes and frappes—no steam wand or burn risk required.
When I began using a proper espresso machine, I craved the convenience of a “set it and forget it” option that could froth milk as I pulled my shot. And let me tell you, there are a lot of options out there. Eventually, I settled on the simple yet sturdy Keurig milk frother. It claims to whip up both hot and cold foam from any type of milk—plant milk included. For a flexitarian like me, it sounded like the perfect way to level up my at-home drinks!
On Sale
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Keurig Standalone Milk Frother
Make cafe-style drinks in the comfort of your own kitchen with the Keurig milk frother.
Shop on Walmart$61.99 at Target79.9936% OFF$51.24 at Amazon
What is the Keurig Milk Frother?
Several different milk frothing machine options exist. The most common types are handheld wand frothers and hot plate-style frothers. You can even secure espresso machines that boast their own onboard milk frother, like the Delonghi Rivelia or the Mr. Coffee 4-in-1.
The Keurig milk frother is a hot plate-style milk frother, made by the same company as some of our favorite single serve coffee makers. Unlike a steam wand, it doesn’t require any kind of babysitting. Simply fill it and switch it on before pulling an espresso shot or brewing up a cup. By the time you’re ready to dress your drink, you’ll have a mountain of effortless, velvety and foamy goodness.
While it doesn’t work well for latte art (you’d need a proper built-in steam wand like the Dedica Duo’s for that), it does deliver what it promises: a barista-style boost that makes drinks feel so much more professional.
How We Tested the Keurig Milk Frother
I’ve been testing the Keurig milk frother almost every day since March 2025—often as frequently as twice a day (I really love my coffee). In the six months it’s been on my coffee counter, I’ve had consistently impressive, fast results. I switch between nut milk and dairy milk depending on my mood, and it makes equally delicious foam from every kind of milk I’ve tried.
Hot Foam
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Using the machine to make hot foam is a cinch. The setup is simple, comprised of a heating plate that plugs into the wall, a frothing cup, a small circular whisk and a transparent lid that makes it easy to keep an eye on the foam. I love how compact it is at only around 8 inches tall and 3 inches wide. It easily slips into the free space on my coffee counter and makes the perfect amount of milk for one specialty drink (about 6 ounces).
To make hot foam, just fill the cup to either the minimum or maximum markers indicated on the nonstick interior. Plug in the hot plate and pop the cup on top, then press on the lid. A silicone ring around the transparent lid ensures a nice, secure seal. Then, push the top button on the front of the machine: This starts the hot foam cycle. The button lights up for the duration of the cycle, indicating that it’s spinning the milk.
A tiny circular whisk inside the cup spins while the heating element slowly brings the milk up to temperature. It’s kind of fun watching the process through the transparent lid! This also makes it easy to see when the cycle is done. Once finished, carefully pour the hot milk and foam into the drink using the spout on the side of the cup. You may need to use a spoon to direct some of the thicker foam onto the top of the drink.
While the cup has no handle, that’s not a huge issue for me. The ribbed texture of the cup makes it easy to hold, and it’s well-insulated so the exterior doesn’t feel hot to the touch. Oh, and it’s nearly silent—I can run it without my skittish cats ducking for cover.
Cold Foam
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
The cold foam cycle is similar to the hot froth cycle. Simply press the bottom button—adorned with a cute snowflake—to begin the cold cycle. I was surprised to find that the cold foam was almost as rich and velvety as the hot foam, likely due to the spinning speed. I love using this cold foam for cold brew!
Plant Milk
The great performance doesn’t just apply to cow’s milk, either. I’ve had great results with both regular and plant-based milks, including soy, oat, coconut and macadamia nut milk. This includes both hot and cold foam cycles, which is rather impressive.
Cleaning
Upkeep could be easier: This frother is not dishwasher-safe and can’t be submerged in water due to the heating element. That said, the cup has a handy nonstick interior, which makes cleaning as simple as the swipe of a rag.
Pros
Simple setup and buttons
Capable of both cold and hot foam
Nonstick coating/easy to clean
Works well with non-dairy milk
Compact size
Quiet
Cons
Only makes enough milk for one drink at a time
Not great for latte art
No handle
Not dishwasher-safe
Comparison: Keurig vs. Nespresso Milk Frother
Nespresso and Keurig are two of the most notable home coffee maker brands. Like Keurig, Nespresso developed their own line of milk frothers for delicious specialty drinks. The most popular Nespresso milk frother is the Nespresso Aeroccino 4, which offers a more customization but is about double the price of the Keurig version.
Unlike the Keurig milk frother’s two frothing options, the Nespresso machine offers four different milk styles: hot milk foam (airy or dense), cold milk foam and simple hot milk. It also comes with a handle, stainless steel cup and an angled pour spout for additional precision. As a bonus, it cleans up easily in the dishwasher.
That said, it uses almost the same exact type of circular whisk frother as the Keurig. If you’re not interested in customizing your cup and just crave a way to enjoy hot or cold foam, the more modestly-priced Keurig is our suggestion. But for those who want to experiment further, the splurge-worthy Nespresso version may be the best option.
Final Verdict
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
The convenience, simplicity and durability of the Keurig milk frother makes it a coffee tool I’m glad to own. It’s fast, reliable and generally foolproof, so it’s a great pick for beginner baristas and pro brewers alike. Those who want to enjoy cafe-style drinks at home can’t go wrong with this pick. Sure, it’s not fit for latte art, but for those who want a simple coffee upgrade, it really does the trick.
Where To Order
On Sale
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Keurig Standalone Milk Frother
Shop on Walmart$61.99 at Target79.9936% OFF$51.24 at Amazon
Feel like taking your coffee drinks from drab to fab? Shoppers can score their own Keurig milk frother from many different online retailers, including Walmart, Target and Amazon. It typically retails for around $50, which is far less than other options on the market. Not only is it handy, but the sleek look adds a little pizzaz to any coffee cart.
FAQ
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
How to use a Keurig milk frother?
Fill the Keurig milk frother to either the minimum or maximum indicators on the inside of the cup. Plug in the hot plate and place the cup onto the hot plate and replace the lid. Then, push the top button on the front of the machine—this starts the hot foam cycle. The button lights up for the duration of the cycle, indicating that it’s spinning the milk.
Does the Keurig frother heat the milk?
Yes, the Keurig frother heats up milk as it spins if you use the hot froth button. The cold foam button does not heat the milk if you prefer a cold brew coffee instead.
How to clean a Keurig milk frother?
Cleaning a Keurig milk frother is easy. Use a drop of dish soap and some warm water to thoroughly wipe down the interior of the frother. Rinse well. You can also remove the circular whisk to give it a thorough clean.
While the cup cannot go into the dishwasher (and you should never submerge it in water due to the heating element), the nonstick interior makes it easy to wash by hand. Just don’t use any abrasive cleaners or tools so as to not scratch it.
Why You Should Trust Us
Since 2012, I’ve crafted my own cafe-style drinks using equipment like an Aeropress, French press, pour overs and other brewing methods. Between my experience reviewing the best flavored coffee brands, Delonghi’s newest espresso machine and creating concentrates with my OXO Rapid Brewer, I’ve learned a lot about what makes a good cuppa.
I also took a virtual coffee tasting class from Uncommon Goods, which is where I learned about brew temperature and flavor profiles. The class was hosted by 2022 US Cup Tasters Champion and coffee expert Julien Langevin.
Author
Emily Way
As Taste of Home's shopping editor, Emily has covered everything from travel and food to DIY. She is passionate about locating the best products at prices that readers can afford. Her expertise lies in product testing and exploring viral products from Tiktok and Instagram.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box