This Is the Stock Market's Biggest Blind Spot As Investors Get Complacent - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Markets
This is the stock market's biggest blind spot right now
By
William Edwards
People walk past the New York Stock Exchange in New York City.
Spencer Platt/Getty Images
2025-09-25T09:30:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
US economic resilience may be creating a big blind spot for investors, market experts warn.
Despite weak job growth, unemployment ticking up, and general uncertainty, stocks are at records.
Investor complacency echoes the 1990s, one strategist tells Business Insider.
US economic resilience over the last 15 years has been a tailwind for investors — but after a forecast-defying stretch of growth, it's also creating a big blind spot in the market.
The economy's recent ability to avoid a recession could mean investors are caught off guard when a downturn does eventually materialize, financial pros told Business Insider.Downside risks do appear to be growing in the labor market. Job growth has been anemic over the last four months, unemployment has been steadily on the rise, and job openings are falling. At the same time, unemployment claims remain low, and despite ticking upward, the unemployment rate is historically low.
Still, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said on Tuesday that there is "meaningful weakness" in the job market right now.Yet major stock-market indexes are apparently tuning out the noise, continually hitting new highs in recent months. Some measures of just how sanguine investors are about continued economic strength include a historically low CBOE Volatility Index reading of 16 and a put-call ratio that CNN's Fear & Greed Index calls "Extremely Greedy.""It's like a theoretical concept," Tom Essaye, the founder of Sevens Report Research, said about recessions. "Everybody keeps warning about it, but it never actually happens."
He pointed to how the recession was over in the blink of an eye during the pandemic in 2020, and then markets boomed afterward. Then there was the rate-hike scare in 2023. Meanwhile, earlier this year, there was the tariff scare that so far hasn't materialized. In fact, America has generally enjoyed a historically long stretch of uninterrupted economic growth since the 2008 crisis, with its longest economic expansion ever occurring from 2009 to 2020."You begin to look around and you're like, 'I don't know, maybe we don't have to worry about this anymore," Essaye said.Christine Sol, an investment strategist at SEIA, said that she's been surprised by the US economy's resilience, but that investor complacency about recession risks is something she's concerned about.
"We've had the fastest rate hikes in history and still no recession. The tariff shock and the rapid pullback and recovery, but still no recession," she said.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"We've been telling clients you've got to take a barbell approach," Sol continued. "You have to play offense and defense because there is a concern that you don't want to be left behind, yes, but we do want to have low-volatility, quality exposure in the portfolio in case something should happen."At major Wall Street banks, recession forecasts and bearish prognosticators have seemingly all but disappeared in the last couple of years.
David Rosenberg, the founder of Rosenberg Research, who has a consistently bearish outlook, said that economists and strategists can grow reluctant to predict recessions if they've gotten the call wrong in prior years."Nobody wants to call for the recession because of the embarrassment of missing the call, for those who made it back in 2022 and 2023," Rosenberg said."The pervasive belief is, because we dodged a bullet in 2022 and 2023, that the business cycle has been repealed, and that recessions have been relegated to the history books," he continued. "It's a classic case of burned once, twice shy."
For Essaye, there's a degree of complacency right now that reminds him of the dot-com era in the late 1990s. While exuberance in the stock market around AI is more warranted than the enthusiasm during the internet bubble because profits are real and substantial today, investors seem to think nothing can go wrong, he said."This definitely has a '90s vibe to it," Essaye said. "That complacency is something to worry about. It's not something that causes a recession, but it is something that can make them worse because people are not prepared."
Recommended video
Investing
Recession
Tariffs
More
Rate Hikes
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account