Frequently Asked Questions - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Frequently asked questions
Community Action Publishing (CAP)
What is the goal of this business agreement?
The goal of our Community Action Publishing agreement (CAP) is to eliminate APCs in order to protect authors from selectivity for a more equitable open access future. Cost to publish is assessed based on publication needs of both corresponding and contributing authors so the cost of publishing is distributed more equitably among representative institutions. With the PLOS CAP agreement, any revenue above the cost recovery targets is redistributed to representative institutions in the form of reduced fees the following year
Which journals are included in CAP?
Community Action Publishing is currently only available for PLOS Biology, PLOS Medicine, and PLOS Sustainability and Transformation.
Flat Fee
What is the goal of this business agreement?
The core goals of the Flat Fee agreement is to make it easier for institutions to support their authors’ open access publications through a single, annual invoice to your institution, ensuring equitable access to publishing. The Flat Fee agreement:Streamline and simplifies managing fees (APCs) by shifting the cost from individual articles to an institutional annual fee.Reduces the administrative burden for libraries of managing APC funds, tracking eligibility, and approving funding requests article-by-articleShield institutions from periodic changes to APCs via multi-year contracts and commitmentsEliminate financial pressure on authors to find funding to pay for their publications
Which journals are included in Flat Fee agreement?
Our Flat Fee agreement is designed to automatically cover publications in PLOS Complex Systems, PLOS Computational Biology, PLOS Digital Health, PLOS Genetics, PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases, PLOS One, and PLOS Pathogens through a single, annual fee.
Global Equity
What is the goal of this business agreement?
Our Global Equity agreement empowers institutions in every region of the world to provide open access support for their authors by removing financial barriers through an annual fee per journal. Participation fees are based on each institution’s historical research output in the field and are reflective of their regional economy according to their country’s World Bank lending tier.
Which journals are included in Global Equity agreement?
Our Global Equity agreement is currently available for PLOS Climate, PLOS Global Public Health, PLOS Mental Health and/or PLOS Water. The agreement gives institutions the flexibility to choose which journal(s) they would like to participate in.
Back to Institutional Sales​
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top