About Techmeme
Open Links In New Tab
Mobile
Advertise
Site News
Mediagazer
memeorandum
WeSmirch
Home
River
Leaderboards
About
Events
Get our daily newsletter and never miss a story!   ⓧ
Newsletter
Technology leaders rely on Techmeme
Techmeme stands alone. It is the only tech news aggregator great enough for top CEOs. By sourcing news from thousands of outlets, we're uniquely able to highlight the best and earliest reports on important industry events. And by highlighting notable social media commentary around that news, we're uniquely able to round out coverage with critical perspectives.
Sundar Pichai, Mark Zuckerberg, and Satya Nadella have revealed they're Techmeme readers in interviews. Mark Cuban and Bill Gurley have praised the site. Tim Sweeney and Matthew Prince routinely cite Techmeme.
And over the years, Techmeme has been featured in places like NYT, Bloomberg, BuzzFeed, SF Chronicle, and Business Insider.
A history of independence
Techmeme has remained self-funded and independently-owned since its 2005 launch. It is supported by advertisers, data sales including author-ranking Leaderboards, and news-filtering services.
Advertise on Techmeme
Techmeme offers the following unique opportunities to reach industry decision-makers too busy to scroll through social media:
Sponsor Posts: branded posts that appear continuously at the top of Techmeme on desktop, and in-stream on mobile. (See #1 in the above screenshot image.) Sponsors can feature arbitrary copy, or use an RSS feed to continually supply the latest headline. Monthly costs range from $7k to $20k, depending on the position. Email
.
sponsor at [site name] dot com.
Featured Podcast Players: promote your podcast with a playable unit that shows your latest episode on Techmeme's desktop page. (See #2 in the above screenshot image.) Email .
my.podcast at [site name] dot com.
Upcoming Tech Events: add your event to our event calendars. (See #3 in the above screenshot image.) While Techmeme includes some events editorially according to the policy described here, paid options are available to get any technology event on Techmeme's home page. The monthly cost is $2.9k. Email
.
sponsor at [site name] dot com.
How it works
Techmeme's aggregation is made possible by people and software forming a sort of editorial pyramid. At the top, editors make final calls on what we feature, and write descriptive, straightforward headlines for that news. Below that are news filtering and discovery tools that our editors rely on and which automatically re-sort our front page. And underlying both is our state-of-the-art crawling technology.
The people behind Techmeme
A team of editors across five continents work around the clock to make Techmeme possible. Leading the product are Gabe Rivera, who launched the site in 2005, and Omer Horvitz, who joined in 2007.
Techmeme alumni include
Megan McCarthy,
Mahendra Palsule,
Rich DeMuro,
Andre Garrigo,
David Connell,
Patricia Sauthoff,
Lyra McKee,
Heather Ulich,
Jarrod Cugley,
Salim Hafid,
Prodan Statev,
Adam Haworth,
Matthew Osborn-Grosso,
Matthew Kassel,
Jay Peters,
Jessica Coccimiglio,
and
Eric Ma.
Mediagazer and other sister sites
We also run Mediagazer, which aggregates news for media industry leaders, and relies on Techmeme editors. Techmeme software foundations also underly political news aggregator memeorandum, and celeb site WeSmirch, both of which run without human editors.
Privacy
You can read our Privacy Notice here.
Mediagazer
memeorandum
WeSmirch
Home
River
Leaderboards
About
Events
Newsletter