Isca Augusta - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Name
2
Foundation and history
3
Christian martyrs
4
Amphitheatre
5
Harbour
6
Remains
7
Legion museum
8
See also
9
References
10
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Isca Augusta
12 languages
BrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschEspañolItalianoمصرىNederlandsRomânăSimple EnglishSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
Coordinates: 51°36′37″N 2°57′32″W﻿ / ﻿51.6103°N 2.9589°W﻿ / 51.6103; -2.9589
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Former Roman site in Caerleon, Wales
Isca AugustaCaerllion (Welsh)Newport, Wales Caerleon amphitheatreLocationIsca AugustaLocation in NewportCoordinates51°36′37″N 2°57′32″W﻿ / ﻿51.6103°N 2.9589°W﻿ / 51.6103; -2.9589Grid referenceST336909
Isca, variously specified as Isca Augusta or Isca Silurum, was the site of a Roman legionary fortress and settlement or vicus, the remains of which lie beneath parts of the present-day suburban town of Caerleon in the north of the city of Newport in South Wales. The site includes Caerleon Amphitheatre and is protected by Cadw.
Headquarters of the Legion "II Augusta", which took part in the invasion under Emperor Claudius in 43, Isca is uniquely important for the study of the conquest, pacification and colonisation of Britannia by the Roman army. It was one of only three permanent legionary fortresses in later Roman Britain and, unlike the other sites at Chester and York, its archaeological remains lie relatively undisturbed beneath fields and the town of Caerleon and provide a unique opportunity to study the Roman legions in Britain. Excavations continue to unearth new discoveries;[1] in the late 20th century a complex of very large monumental buildings outside the fortress between the River Usk and the amphitheatre was uncovered. This new area of the canabae was previously unknown.[2]
Name[edit]
The Brythonic name Isca means "water" and refers to the River Usk. The suffix Augusta appears in the Ravenna Cosmography and was an honorific title taken from the legion stationed there. The place is commonly referred to as Isca Silurum to differentiate it from Isca Dumnoniorum and because it lay in the territory of the Silures tribe. However, there is no evidence that this form was used in Roman times. The later name, Caerleon, is derived from the Welsh for "fortress of the legion".
Foundation and history[edit]
A partially intact Roman tower at Caerleon, drawn in 1783
Isca was founded in 74 or 75 during the final campaigns by Governor Sextus Julius Frontinus against the fierce native tribes of western Britain, notably the Silures in South Wales who had resisted the Romans' advance for over a generation.
Isca became the headquarters of the Legion II Augusta based in the large fortress of typical legionary "playing-card" shape and built initially with an earth bank and timber palisade. It remained their headquarters until at least 300 AD. The interior was fitted out with the usual array of military buildings: a headquarters building, legate's residence, tribunes' houses, hospital, large bath house, workshops, barrack blocks, granaries and, unusually, a large amphitheatre.
At this time there were four legions in Britain out of a total of about 30 legions in the Empire, making Britain one of the most heavily militarised provinces due to its frontier status and hostile neighbours.[3] Each legion consisted of over 5,000 heavily armed and highly disciplined professional soldiers who enlisted in the army for at least 20 years. As the backbone of the army, legionaries were the conquerors and builders of the Roman Empire who brought with them foreign ideas, practices and traditions that would change the society and culture of Britain forever.
Legionary fortresses in 80 AD
90m98ydsRiver UskTHE CANABAETHE CANABAEISCA  AUGUSTA(Caerleon)34SOUTHERNCANABAE25BARRACKS24BARRACKS23BARRACKS22BARRACKS21═ ═ ═ ═ ═20═ ═ ═ ═ ═19═ ═ ═ ═ ═18Via decumana17═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═16Via principalis dextra15═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═14Via principalissinistra13═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═12Via Praetoria11═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═10987654321   Map of modern-day Caerleon, overlain with the line of the walls and the principal roads of the Roman Legionary Fortress of Isca Augusta.[4] Red dots are sites open to the public and grey dots are identified or suggested locations for some of the buildings.[5]1 Roman Fortress Baths (Museum)2 Caerleon Amphitheatre3 National Roman Legion Museum4 Area of excavated Roman Barracks5 Basilica Principiorum (Legionary Headquarters building)6 Possible Praetorium site (Commander's Residence)7 Tribune Houses8 Residence of the primus pilus (highest ranking centurian)9 Possible military Hospital site10 Military Storehouse
An inscription of Trajan gives a date of 99/100 AD for the replacement of the fortress walls, when the original earth and timber ramparts of the fortress were strengthened by the addition of a stone revetment at the front. This "composite" rampart consisted of a stone wall 5 to 5½ feet thick, backed by a clay bank and fronted by a single ditch
By 120 AD, detachments or vexillations of the legion were needed elsewhere in the province and Isca became more of a military base than a garrison. However, it is thought that each cohort still maintained a presence at the fortress. When Septimius Severus seized power in the 190s, he had Isca refurbished and the legion were in residence rebuilding themselves after heavy losses on the Continent. Further restoration took place under Caracalla, when the south-west gate was rebuilt, the amphitheatre remodelled and barrack blocks re-roofed and otherwise repaired. The legion may have been called away to fight for one of the many emperors claiming power in the late 3rd century. Although most of the fort lay empty, a 'caretaker' squad are thought to have maintained the facilities and there was reoccupation and rebuilding work as late as the 270s. The main military structures are thought to have finally been demolished by the usurpers, Carausius or Allectus, when the legion was needed to repel a potential invasion from the Continent. The stone from Isca may have been used for building defences on the south coast. There may still have been an occasional military presence as late as the early 4th century, but the fortress was probably later taken over by the people of the surrounding vicus. The basilica of the baths was used as a cattle pen.
Recent finds suggest Roman occupation of some kind as late as 380.[6][7][8]
Christian martyrs[edit]
Main article: Julius and Aaron
According to the Gildas (followed by Bede), Roman Caerleon was the site of two early Christian martyrdoms in Britain, at the same time as that of Saint Alban the first British martyr, who was killed in the Roman city of Verulamium (beside modern-day St Albans). He writes:
God, therefore, who wishes all men to be saved, and who calls sinners no less than those who think themselves righteous, magnified his mercy towards us, and, as we know, during the above-named persecution, that Britain might not totally be enveloped in the dark shades of night, he, of his own free gift, kindled up among us bright luminaries of holy martyrs, whose places of burial and of martyrdom, had they not for our manifold crimes been interfered with and destroyed by the barbarians, would have still kindled in the minds of the beholders no small fire of divine charity. Such were Saint Alban of Verulamium, Aaron and Julius, citizens of the City of the Legions, and the rest, of both sexes, who in different places stood their ground in the Christian contest.
This city of the legions is identified with Caerleon, rather than Chester, because there were two medieval chapels there dedicated to each of these martyrs. They were probably executed in 304, during the religious persecutions of Diocletian's reign. However, these chapels may have been founded as a result of Bede's writings and cannot be dated archaeologically any earlier than the church of St John's in Chester which is also situated next to an amphitheatre.
Amphitheatre[edit]
Because of its rounded form, the unexcavated amphitheatre was known to locals as "King Arthur's Round Table", but there is no known connection. An initial investigation in 1909 showed the potential for a full-scale excavation of the structure, which began in 1926 and was supervised by Victor Erle Nash-Williams. This revealed, among other things, that the amphitheatre had been built around 80. This (Period I) building was destroyed by fire in the early-second century, and the second (Period II) building erected c. AD 138 was destroyed around sixty years later c. 196/197. It was rebuilt for the third and last time during the campaigns of Severus and Caracalla in Britain c. 197–211. The Period III building finally fell into disuse around the middle of the fourth century at the same time that the Caerleon fortress was evacuated. The latest coin from this site is that of Valens (364–378).[9]
The oval arena had eight entrances, with a capacity of around six thousand spectators. Apart from the usual gladiatorial entertainments, it was probably used for displays and exercises by the garrison of the fortress.
360° panoramic view of the amphitheatre
Harbour[edit]
In August 2011 the remains of a Roman harbour were uncovered in Caerleon.[10][11]
Remains[edit]
For a history of the archaeological excavations at Caerleon, see Caerleon Roman Fortress and Baths.
Bath house
Prysg Field Barracks, Isca Augusta
Roman fortress walls, Isca Augusta
Substantial archeologically excavated Roman remains of the Roman fortress can be seen at Caerleon.
Cadw administers:
The military amphitheatre, one of the most impressive in Britain
Part of the military bath house, with the Caerleon Roman Fortress and Baths in situ above it
Prysg Field Barracks, the only Roman legionary barracks visible in Europe
The fortress wall, still standing 12 feet (3.7 m) high in places
Legion museum[edit]
The National Roman Legion Museum, located in the town, is part of the National Museums and Galleries of Wales.
The museum exhibits artifacts and finds from excavations throughout the town and from nearby Burrium (Usk), including Roman currency, weapons, uniform etc.
See also[edit]
Caerleon Roman Fortress and Baths
Newport Museum
Venta Silurum
References[edit]
Knight, Jeremy K (1988). Caerleon Roman Fortress. Cardiff: Cadw.
^ "School of History, Archaeology and Religion".
^ "The Caerleon canabae: excavations in the civil settlement 1984-90" (2000), Edith Evans, Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies
^ Roman Legionary Fortresses 27BC-AD378: Duncan Campbell, Osprey Publishing
^ Evans, Edith (2004). The Roman fortress of Caerleon and its environs: A framework for research (Report). Glamorgan-Gwent Archaeological Trust.
^ Isca (Caerleon Roman Fortress) (ID PRN00514g) in the 'SMR' for Glamorgan-Gwent Archaeological Trust (GGAT)
^ "Priory Field Caerleon Dig 2008 Cardiff University and UCL Dr Peter Guest and Dr Andrew Gardner". Retrieved 8 September 2008.
^ "Priory Field Caerleon Dig 2010 Cardiff University and UCL Dr Peter Guest". Retrieved 27 January 2011.
^ "Caerleon Dig Blog 2011 Cardiff University Dr Peter Guest".
^ "Isca Silvrvm". Archived from the original on 3 October 2008. Retrieved 24 July 2008.
^ Caerleon Roman harbour
^ Cardiff university video fly-though Archived 2011-12-04 at the Wayback Machine
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Isca Augusta.
Cadw - Caerleon Amphitheatre - official site for visiting
The Caerleon Research Committee
Caerleon Legionary Fortress page at the Community Archaeology Forum of the Council for British Archaeology
Caerleon amphitheatre from Gathering the Jewels
Caerleon on the Roman Britain website
vteCaerleon, WalesTopics
People from Caerleon‎
People educated at Caerleon Comprehensive School
Listed buildings in Caerleon
Grade II listed buildings in Caerleon
Newport HSOB RFC players
Caerleon RFC players
Culture
The Darling Buds
Sex Education
Arthur Machen
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Events
Tour de Gwent
Newport Half Marathon
Caerleon Arts Festival
InfrastructureRail links
Newport railway station (nearest)
Bus links
Newport Bus
Newport bus station
Proposed
South Wales Metro
Caerleon railway station
Cycling
National Cycle Route 88
Usk Valley Walk
Former
Caerleon Urban District
Usk Hundred
Caerleon Tramroad
Health
St Cadoc's Hospital
Aneurin Bevan University Health Board
Education
Caerleon Endowed Infants School
Caerleon Endowed School
Caerleon Comprehensive School
Caerleon campus
Sports
Caerleon A.F.C.
Caerleon R.F.C.
Newport H.S.O.B. R.F.C.
Newport Racecourse (closed)
Places
Isca Augusta
Hanbury Arms
The Mynde
Roman Fortress and Baths
National Roman Legion Museum
Religion
Synod of Victory
St Cadoc's Church
Julius and Aaron
Saint Gwrhai
Influences
Caerleon, Bellevue Hill
HMS Caerleon (1918)
Caerleon (horse)
vteHistory of Caerleon, WalesRoman Caerleon
Ermin Way
Tiberius Claudius Paulinus
Titus Desticius Juba
Kingdom of Gwent
Morgan ap Hywel
Caradog ap Gruffydd
Gruffydd ap Rhydderch
William Fitz Robert, 2nd Earl of Gloucester
Sites
Caerleon Roman Fortress and Baths
National Roman Legion Museum
The Mynde (Caerleon)
Hanbury Arms
Rumoured
King Arthur
Round Table
Camelot
Lancelot
Nest Bloet
vteCity of NewportTopics
Bitcoin buried in landfilll
High Sheriffs
Listed buildings
Grade I
Grade II*
Lord Lieutenants
Newport city centre
Newport built-up area
People
Registered parks and gardens
Schools
Scheduled monuments
Districtsof NewportCommunities
Allt-yr-yn
Alway
Beechwood
Bettws
Bishton
Caerleon
Coedkernew
Gaer
Goldcliff
Graig
Langstone
Llanvaches
Llanwern
Lliswerry
Malpas
Marshfield
Michaelston-y-Fedw
Nash
Penhow
Pillgwenlly
Redwick
Ringland
Rogerstone
St Julians
Shaftesbury
Stow Hill
Tredegar Park
Victoria
Wentlooge
Other districts
Baneswell
Barnardtown
Bassaleg
Bishpool
Brynglas
Bulmore
Castleton
Cat's Ash
Christchurch
Crindau
Duffryn
Glan Llyn
High Cross
Llanmartin
Lower Machen
Maesglas
Maindee
Mendalgief
Parc-Seymour
Peterstone
Rhiwderin
Ridgeway
Riverside
Somerton
St Brides
Underwood
Uskmouth
Wentwood Forest
Whitson
Wilcrick
Buildingsandstructures
Beechwood House
Brynglas House
Caerleon campus
Chartist Mural
Coleg Gwent
Friars Walk
Inmos microprocessor factory
International Convention Centre Wales
Isca Augusta
Kingsway Shopping Centre
Lysaght Institute
Mansion House
Market Arcade
National Roman Legion Museum
Newport Castle
Newport Cathedral
Newport Civic Centre
Newport Market
Newport Museum Art Gallery and Central Library
Neon
Newport Centre
Newport Technical Institute
Newport Transporter Bridge
Pencoed Castle
Riverfront Arts Centre
Roman Baths Museum
Shire Hall
South East Wales Regional Swimming Pool
St. Mark's Church
St. Paul's Church
Tredegar House
University of South Wales
West Usk Lighthouse
Westgate Hotel
Ye Olde Murenger House
SportEvents
Newport Marathon
Newport Half Marathon
Tour de Gwent
2010 Ryder Cup
Institutions
Dragon Park, Wales National Football Development Centre
Newport International Sports Village
Newport Stadium
Newport Tennis Centre
Rodney Parade
South East Wales Regional Swimming Pool
Geraint Thomas National Velodrome
Culture
Music of Newport
Newport City Radio
vteMajor towns of Roman BritainPlacenames in brackets are either present-day names or counties where the towns formerly existed.CapitalsBritannia Superior
Londinium (London)
Britannia Inferior
Eboracum (York)
Camulodunum (Colchester)
Surviving
Caesaromagus (Chelmsford)
Corinium Dobunnorum (Cirencester)
Deva Victrix (Chester)
Durnovaria (Dorchester)
Durovernum Cantiacorum (Canterbury)
Glevum (Gloucester)
Isca Augusta (Caerleon)
Isca Dumnoniorum (Exeter)
Isurium Brigantum (Aldborough)
Lactodurum (Towcester)
Lindum Colonia (Lincoln)
Luguvalium (Carlisle)
Moridunum (Carmarthen)
Noviomagus Reginorum (Chichester)
Petuaria (Brough)
Ratae Corieltauvorum (Leicester)
Venta Belgarum (Winchester)
Venta Silurum (Caerwent)
Verulamium (St Albans)
Viroconium Cornoviorum (Wroxeter)
Extinct
Alchester (Wendlebury)
Bannaventa (Northamptonshire)
Calleva Atrebatum (Hampshire)
Cunetio (Wiltshire)
Venta Icenorum (Norfolk)
List of Roman place names in Britain
vteRoman visitor sites in the UKVillas
Bignor
Brading
Chedworth
Crofton
Dover Painted House
Fishbourne
Great Witcombe
Littlecote
Lullingstone
Newport
North Leigh
Piddington
Rockbourne
Sparsholt
Wroxeter
Forts & military
Ambleside Roman Fort
Arbeia
Banks East Turret
Binchester
Birdoswald
Burgh Castle
Caerleon
Chesters
Derventio
Dover Castle
Eboracum
Hardknott Roman Fort
Housesteads
Lancaster
Lunt
Carvoran Roman Army Museum
Over Burrow (Lancaster)
Pevensey Castle
Portchester Castle
Ribchester
Richborough
Segedunum
Venta Icenorum
Vindolanda
Towns
Aldborough Roman Site
Chichester
Colchester
Corbridge
Silchester
Venta Icenorum
St Albans
Wroxeter
Museums
Canterbury Roman Museum
Carvoran Roman Army Museum
Caerleon Roman Fortress and Baths
Colchester Castle Museum
Corinium Museum
Jewry Wall Museum
National Roman Legion Museum
Ribchester
Senhouse Roman Museum
Trimontium Trust (Melrose)
Verulamium Museum
Other sites
Bath Roman Baths
Benwell Roman temple
Caerleon Roman Baths
Chester Roman Amphitheatre
Jewry Wall, Leicester
Welwyn Roman Baths
York Roman Baths
vteMuseums and art galleries in WalesList of museums in WalesAmgueddfa Cymru –Museum WalesCurrent museums
National Museum Cardiff
St Fagans National Museum of History
Big Pit National Coal Museum
National Wool Museum
National Roman Legion Museum
National Slate Museum
National Waterfront Museum
Former museums
Welsh Industrial and Maritime Museum
Turner House Gallery
Natural history
National Museum Cardiff
Swansea Museum
Tenby Museum and Art Gallery
Newport Museum and Art Gallery
Ancient history
Roman Baths Museum
Galleries and art
Dylan Thomas Boathouse
Dylan Thomas Centre
Glynn Vivian Art Gallery
Llantarnam Grange Arts Centre
MOMA, Wales
Mostyn
Oriel Ynys Môn
Turner House Gallery
Tŷ Pawb
Industry
Bersham Ironworks
Blaenavon Ironworks
Cefn Coed Colliery Museum
Internal Fire – Museum of Power
Kidwelly Industrial Museum
Llechwedd Slate Caverns
Pierhead Building
South Wales Miners' Museum
Sygun Copper Mine
Military
Caernarfon Airworld Aviation Museum
South Wales Aviation Museum
Monmouth Museum
Regimental Museum of The Royal Welsh
Museum of the Welsh Soldier
Local history
Abergavenny Museum
Cardiff Story Museum
Carmarthenshire County Museum
Ceredigion Museum
Chepstow Museum
Haverfordwest Town Museum
Judge's Lodging, Presteigne
Lampeter Museum
Llancaiach Fawr
Menai Heritage Bridges Exhibition
Milford Haven Museum
National Coracle Centre
Newport Museum
Parc Howard Museum
Pontypool Museum
Scolton Manor
Swansea Museum
Tenby Museum and Art Gallery
Wrexham County Borough Museum
Y Gaer
Bus and motoring
Llangollen Motor Museum
Pembrokeshire Motor Museum
Pendine Museum of Speed
Railways
Borth railway museum
Conwy Valley Railway Museum
Narrow Gauge Railway Museum
Penrhyn Castle Railway Museum
Maritime
Holyhead Maritime Museum
Other
National Cycle Museum
Welsh Sports Hall of Fame
Football Museum for Wales
Proposed National Contemporary Art Gallery
Authority control databases: Geographic Pleiades
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Isca_Augusta&oldid=1312702571"
Categories: Roman fortifications in Newport, WalesArchaeological sites in Newport, WalesHistory of Newport, WalesLandmarks in Newport, WalesMuseums in Newport, WalesOpen-air museums in WalesArchaeological museums in WalesMuseums of ancient Rome in WalesRoman towns in WalesRuins in WalesLocations associated with Arthurian legendCadwAmphitheatres in Roman BritainCaerleonRoman legionary fortresses in WalesHidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2022Articles containing Welsh-language textCoordinates on WikidataArticles with OS grid coordinatesArticles containing OSM location mapsCommons category link from WikidataPages using the Kartographer extension
This page was last edited on 22 September 2025, at 04:16 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Isca Augusta
12 languages
Add topic