How to Tell if an Egg Is Bad with the Float Test | Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Hard-Boiled Eggs
How to Tell if Ground Beef Is Bad
How to Wash Fresh Eggs (and When You Shouldn't Wash Them)
How to Tell if Chicken Is Bad
How Long Can Eggs Sit Out of the Fridge?
How to Tell If Salmon Is Bad
How to Tell If Your Broccoli Is Bad
How to Tell If Asparagus Is Bad
How to Tell If an Onion Is Bad
What Is That Stringy White Stuff in Eggs? Here's Your Answer
Egg in a Hole
Over-Easy Eggs
Brown vs. White Eggs: Here Are the Differences
How Long Do Eggs Last?
Is It Safe to Eat Raw Eggs?
How to Crack an Egg the Right Way
Every Way to Cook an Egg
10 Mistakes You Might Be Making with Eggs
The Shocking Secret About Your Fast-Food Eggs
Sarah2/Shutterstock
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Eggs
How to Tell if an Egg Is Bad
Sarah2/Shutterstock
By
Hazel Wheaton
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Oct. 07, 2024
Save
Saved
Saving
Want to know how to tell if an egg is bad? The float test is a quick way to see if the eggs in your refrigerator are fresh enough to use.
When you buy eggs at the grocery store, you can usually assume they’re fresh—or at least, fresh enough to use. You just need to know how to decipher those numbers on your egg carton. But even if you unpack your eggs from the original carton or buy eggs from a local farmer, there are still easy ways to tell if an egg is bad.
If you test your eggs for freshness, it can be safe to eat “expired” eggs.
ⓘ
How to Tell if Eggs Are Good
Taste of Home
The good news is that badly spoiled eggs are easy to detect as soon as you crack them open. The bad news is that the sulfur smell of an “off” egg is one you won’t soon forget.
The great news is that there are ways to tell whether your eggs are usable or not without having to break the shell (which is the only thing standing between you and that rotten egg smell).
Editor’s Tip: Check this guide if label terminology like cage-free vs. free-range eggs confuses you at the grocery store.
Do the float test
This low-tech method for how to tell if an egg is bad has been used for generations. It’s as easy as pouring a glass of water.
You see, bad eggs float. It has to do with the way moisture evaporates through the shell as eggs age. As that moisture decreases, the air bubble inside the shell grows. One way to test this is to hold the egg to your ear and shake it: If you hear the egg sloshing around, that’s a bad sign. But if you gently place the egg in a glass or bowl of water, you can see how fresh the egg is.
The air bubble will be at the narrow end of the egg—you can tell how fresh your egg is by how it settles in the water.
If the egg lies horizontally, it’s at its freshest.
If the narrow end of the egg tilts upward, the egg is still usable, but not quite as fresh. An egg that tilts would be good to use for meringue, because older eggs make better meringue.
If the egg stands upright (but is still at the bottom of the container), it’s past its peak, but is still safe—use these eggs for baking or when you’re making hard-boiled eggs.
And if the egg floats? Get rid of it.
It’s as simple as that!
Do the candling test
Another way to check your egg is the candling test. You need to be in a dark room, then use a  bright flashlight to take a closer look at the shell. If cracks in the shell are visible when candling, throw it out. The cracks may create an opportunity for bacteria to access the inside of the egg.
Check for discoloration and egg consistency
When you crack open the egg, if there are flecks of green, pink, black or any other color that isn’t yellow or orange for the yolk and clear (or clear but cloudy) for the white, play it safe and toss the egg.
You can check the consistency of the egg white, too. While a white is supposed to be runnier than the yolk, if it’s much runnier than usual, just know that the egg is a bit older. It’s not a sign to run for the hills, but be wary. While you’re at it, get to know how long eggs can last in the fridge.
Do the sniff test
Your last line of defense (but probably the most obvious) should be the sniff test. If an egg passes all of the other tests but smells like sulfur, you should toss it. Don’t forget to crack your eggs individually into a bowl before adding them to the rest of the ingredients! While you’re at it, get to know whether you can wash fresh eggs.
Editor’s Tip: Eggs have a surprisingly long shelf life, check how long do the eggs last.
How to Keep Eggs from Going Bad
It’s best to keep eggs in the refrigerator, where they’ll be good for 4 to 5 weeks. Be sure to store eggs on a shelf in the fridge, rather than in the door—eggs in the door experience more temperature fluctuation and will go bad faster. Experts also recommend storing eggs with the pointy end down and the blunt end up.
For food safety reasons, do not keep eggs on the counter at home for more than 2 hours.
Author
Hazel Wheaton
Hazel has covered travel, food and jewelry arts for 30 years. She has had the rare privilege of learning about food by talking to local experts and tasting everything she was offered—including almond pastries in Morocco, whisky and haggis in Orkney, escargot in Lyon, spiced lamb in Abu Dhabi and dried shrimp at the night market in Taipei.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box