AWS Summit New York
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS Summit New York City
Overview
Agenda
Generative AI
Sponsors
FAQs
More
AWS›
Events›
AWS Summits
July 2025 | Javits Convention Center
AWS Summit New York City
Experience the excitement surrounding agentic AI with Swami Sivasubramanian – including customer stories, product reveals, and insights to enable your organization to adopt AI agents at scale.
Register for 2025 AWS re:Invent
Watch the keynote
As AI models evolve and new development frameworks emerge, the fundamentals of security, reliability, and operational excellence remain constant. Catch up on the AWS Summit keynote in New York as Swami Sivasubramanian explores how to strike the practical and powerful balance between timeless fundamentals and innovative investments, like agentic AI frameworks, during a strategic technological inflection point.
Play
Inspiring customer stories
Intuit
Thomson Reuters
Revolutionizing customer experiences with agents
Ashok N. Srivastava, Ph.D., senior vice president and chief AI and data officer at Intuit, is responsible for setting the vision and direction for large-scale machine learning and AI across the enterprise to help power prosperity across the world—and in the process is hiring hundreds of people in machine learning, AI, and related areas at all levels. Ashok has extensive experience in research, development, and implementation of machine learning and optimization techniques on massive datasets and serves as an advisor in big data analytics and strategic investments.
Learn more about Intuit's innovation journey
Enabling company-wide adoption of agentic AI systems
Matt Dimich, Vice President of Platform Engineering Enablement at Thomson Reuters, leads teams responsible for delivering modern, scalable, and secure infrastructure that accelerates product innovation across the company’s global portfolio. Over his tenure, Matt has driven key modernization initiatives across core engineering capabilities and under his leadership, 95% of Thomson Reuters’ workloads have been successfully migrated to the cloud, enabling the company to scale its adoption of agentic AI systems. His team has re-architected foundational infrastructure to support intelligent, high-scale workflows now embedded across TR’s legal, tax, and compliance platforms.
Learn more about Thomson Reuters' innovation journey
We’re focused on making our agentic AI vision accessible to every organization by combining rapid innovation with a strong foundation of security, reliability, and operational excellence.
Swami Sivasubramanian
VP, AWS Agentic AI
Read more on the machine learning blog
Explore what's new from AWS
AI Agents in AWS Marketplace
Buy and deploy hundreds of AI agents, tools, and solutions from AWS Partners to automate processes, build custom agents, or implement strategic AI initiatives across your organization
Learn more
Amazon Bedrock AgentCore
Enabling you to deploy and operate highly capable AI agents securely, at scale.
Learn more
AWS AI League
Learn essential AI skills while solving challenges competing for prizes and glory in the ultimate AI showdown.
Learn more
Generative AI Observability
Gaining deep visibility into the quality, performance, and health of your generative AI workloads, including agents.
Learn more
Amazon Nova Act
Find out how developers are building agents that can complete tasks in a web browser.
Learn more
Amazon Nova Customization
Customize Nova understanding models in SageMaker AI across all stages of model training to better address business-specific requirements
Learn more
Amazon Nova Sonic
Supporting real-time, human-like voice conversations with leading price performance and low latency, in English, Spanish, French, Italian, and German.
Learn more
Amazon SageMaker Model Training
Reducing the time and cost to train and tune machine learning (ML) models at scale without the need to manage infrastructure.
Learn more
AWS doubles its investment in the Generative AI Innovation Center
AWS announces an additional $100M investment in its Generative AI Innovation Center, which has helped thousands of customers across industries achieve millions of dollars in productivity gains and transformed customer experiences. The new investment will support the next wave of AI innovation, particularly in autonomous agentic systems, building on two years of success helping customers like AstraZeneca, BMW, NFL, and Yahoo Finance transform their businesses through practical AI implementations.
Read the blog
Discover more AWS content
Accelerate your agentic AI strategy
Learn more
Explore top announcements of the AWS Summit in New York
Read more
From AWS Summit to re:Invent—Join thousands of innovators in Las Vegas
Register now
Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so that we can improve the quality of content on our pages.
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.