Megabonk's impeccable aura has turned it into a Steam best-seller
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
1
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Steam
Megabonk is standing tall amid behemoths like Silent Hill f and Battlefield 6 with the help of hoverboards and skeletons
This Steam best seller is the coolest thing I've played in a long time
By
Patricia Hernandez
Published 8 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Yakuza Kiwami 3 announced, comes with entire new spinoff game
15 hours ago
Marvel Zombies finally delivers on the potential of What If...?
11 hours ago
Baldur's Gate 3 is easier to play on your Steam Deck than ever before
1 day ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: vedinad
Megabonk has been out for less than a week on Steam, and despite stiff competition in the form of games like Silksong and Borderlands 4, the humble indie game is still tearing up the charts. Once you see it in action, it's easy to understand why. This is an experience that: A) understands that it is a game and B) oozes aura. Skateboarding skeletons, cowboy robots, a shirtless mega-Chad: This is the sort of game that a terminally online, brainrotted teen boy would come up with. I mean that in the best way possible. Only in this analogy, the teen boy discovers Roblox and Discord rather than Andrew Tate and Joe Rogan. Megabonk is a roguelite arcade game in the style of Vampire Survivors, except in 3D. At the start, you have access to two characters: an unusually lucky mage fox, and Sir Oofie, a knight who moves slowly but hits hard. No matter who you pick, you'll automatically attack enemies periodically. Each character's base attack functions slightly differently. The knight, for example, swings a sword directly in front of him, whereas the fox will throw fireballs at faraway enemies. As you go along, you gain powers that help your character expand their arsenal of projectiles, like bouncing bones and banana boomerangs. You will quickly become a walking ball of chaos whose every step brings about destruction. Enemies also never stop spawning, much in the style of Risk of Rain. Enemies and breakables drop money, which you can use to open randomly generated chests. Chests are full of upgrades and abilities of varying rarity, like health regeneration and attack cadence. Your aim, at least initially, is to find and defeat the map's boss without getting overwhelmed by the swarms of enemies on the screen. Simple stuff, and while the mechanics are solid, Megabonk's style and tone are what set it apart.
Though this is a modern game, the 3D graphics are like something out of the N64 era. There are a lot of jagged edges, muddy textures, and rasterized pixels. All the animations are slightly choppy, as if your internet connection is having trouble loading a GIF. As you play, a rock soundtrack shreds in the background and hypes you up; naturally, some characters have their own theme songs. When you die, your character will stiffly topple over as if it were a toy. "you ded," the game will proclaim as your lifeless body fills up the frame. "maybe him skill issue?" This type of humor won't work for everyone. The magnet-shaped "shrine of succ," which collects all the surrounding XP, and the "slutty missiles" that hone in on enemies will surely elicit some groans. But when it hits, it hits. I couldn't help but smile during a run where the game threw in a suspiciously Donkey Kong-shaped primeape named Monke, whom I was tasked with chasing as tropical music boomed in the background. Eventually, Monke ran into a wall and simply kept going up at a full 90 degrees, as if it were lagging out of the game. As I tried to keep up, enemies surrounded me and made it impossible to move anywhere. I died, but Monke was free. This is a game that uses the conventions and aesthetics of the internet to cobble together something deeply surreal and silly, almost like a fake video game in a TV show. Shops come in the form of business suit men who will call you an idiot after you purchase something. You can equip something called Turbo Socks, which of course increase your speed. You can summon a ghost named Bob, because why not?
Image: vedinad
None of this would work without a game that's actually fun, and to its credit, Megabonk is endlessly replayable thanks to all of its unlockables and challenges. There are 20 characters to try, as well as an array of different maps with varying types of enemies, from mummies to floating heads with giant tongues. Quests can range from straightforward things like "kill 1,000 of x enemy" to things like "find the hidden Banana" and "get the item that has a 0.001% chance of dropping." So far, I haven't progressed beyond the initial forest map, but I'm having a blast theorycrafting builds. Your character has a ton of different stats that impact things like shield regeneration and area of attack, but you never feel bogged down with too much information. This is the epitome of number go up game. At most, you will spend a few seconds deciding which number becomes bigger. You spend the bulk of your time shredding, literally and figuratively. Runs can last around 30 minutes or less, which makes Megabonk a perfect pick up and play game. You can amass so many upgrades and abilities that you'll feel like a god who simply deletes anything that displeases them. You are not, however, immortal. The game will start generating enemies at a ridiculous clip, such that if you ever make the mistake of getting caught in a corner or against a wall, that's it. No amount of automatic health regen, evade percentages, or high luck stats can save you when there are so many enemies on the screen the game might well crash at any moment. A devlog suggests that the game might spawn up to 10,000 enemies, even if it means turning the experience into a slideshow. Megabonk is a game where standing still is dangerous, but you'll have to do it often. Where chests will become increasingly expensive as you go along, Megabonk also offers free upgrades at claw machines that will only drop something if you charge them for long enough, which requires staying in close orbit. Running around in a game that never stops moving while having to stop and collect upgrades in order to survive makes for action that is as tense as it is exciting. Did I mention that Megabonk costs $9.99, or slightly cheaper if you buy it during its launch period? Or that the developer intends to support the game with content updates? No wonder Steam users are flocking to this game. The high of nearly drowning in a sea of goblins as a shades-totin' skeleton only to kickflip down a mountain as the army scrambles behind you is peak video games.
Gaming
PC
Impressions
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
ReptarRampage
ReptarRampage
ReptarRampage
#EQ082769
Member since 2025-08-11
62
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Good game, but wild Polygon is covering it lmao
2025-09-24 18:47:17
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
9 hours ago
Cronos: The New Dawn's cats bring its protagonist to life
2 days ago
Starfinder: Afterlight adds companions for fans of Murderbot and Loki
1 day ago
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
1 day ago
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
More from our brands
Divinity Original Sin 2 Builds: Eternal Warrior (Death Knight Perfected)
Best Free Co-Op Games You Can Play On Steam
All Cheats In Mount And Blade 2: Bannerlord (& How To Unlock Them)
40 Best Cross-Platform Games To Play Right Now, Ranked
How Difficulty Works in Megabonk
The Best Horror Games To Play With Friends
Best Co-Op Games On Steam
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Stranger Things season 5 will have more action and special effects than ever before
Hades 2 overcomplicates a perfect formula
I need these new Over the Garden Wall collectibles from Mondo in my life ASAP
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.