Our Exclusive Lab Data Reveals 1 Simple Truth: A Great Cordless Vacuum Doesn’t Have to Cost a Lot of Money - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test vacuums
HomeKitchen & Household Vacuum Cleaners
Our Exclusive Lab Data Reveals 1 Simple Truth: A Great Cordless Vacuum Doesn’t Have to Cost a Lot of Money
Our lab data proves you can find top-performing cordless vacuums with long-lasting batteries and strong suction without breaking the bank.
Ajay Kumar Editor Ajay has worked in tech journalism for over a decade as a reporter, analyst, product reviewer, and editor. He got his start in consumer tech, breaking Android news at Newsweek before going to PCMag, where he reviewed hundreds of smartphones, battery packs, and chargers as a Mobile Analyst. He also worked at Lifewire, a Dotdash Meredith brand, as a Tech Commerce Editor, putting together tested best-of lists and assigning product reviews across categories including smart home, uninterruptible power supplies, generators, and automotive tech.
Most recently, he was Section Editor, Mobile at Digital Trends, spearheading his team's coverage of breaking news, features, reviews, roundups, deals, and more across a variety of mobile products, including phones, wearables, VR headsets, batteries, and chargers. If you want Ajay's advice about anything tech, especially solar panels, UPS, batteries, EVs, and charging technology, you can reach him at ajkumar@cnet.com. Expertise 13+ years of experience in consumer product reviews, buying guides, best lists, and tech news across a variety of tech categories. As a homeowner, Ajay is also familiar with the unique electrical issues that can crop up in a prewar apartment building.
See full bio
Ajay Kumar
Sept. 20, 2025
2:00 a.m. PT 11 min read
Credit: Cole Kan/CNET/Getty/Dreame, Shark, Levoit
Key takeaways:Most cordless vacuums with strong suction power often have shorter battery life. But there are a few notable exceptions from manufacturers such as Dreame, Shark and Levoit.Our lab data reveals you don't need to spend a lot of money to get a cordless vacuum with high-performing suction and a long battery life. We found two top performers for less than $500 from Shark and Levoit.Better battery life doesn't always correlate with a higher price or a heavier vacuum.Most cordless vacuum manufacturers claim battery life specs of 60 minutes or more. Through our lab testing of over 100 vacuums, we've found only a handful live up to that claim.
A $1,000 vacuum cleaner is sure to have better battery and suction than a cheaper model, right? As CNET's vacuum reviewer, I wanted to debunk this common perception, with help from CNET lab engineer Schylar Breitenstein, who rigorously tested 100 cordless vacuums and counting at our Louisville lab to help me determine which work best.
This is CNET's secret weapon: A state-of-the-art testing laboratory, where our in-house engineers conduct rigorous testing procedures on hundreds of home technologies such as cordless vacuums. While Breitenstein ran the tests, I dug into the lab test data to find which vacuum brands live up to their specs -- and which do not. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.Our exclusive lab data might shock you, as it highlights a few hard truths for the vacuum industry. But we also found an "unprecedented" battery life winner and a handful of strong suction performers, too.
CNET has tested 50 cordless vacuums and counting, pictured are some of our top picks. Jefferey Hazlewood/CNETBattery life vs. price: Expensive doesn't equal better  I went into the data expecting there to be a decent correlation between battery life and price. After all, you'd expect the more costly cordless vacuums to offer the best performance and part of what makes up performance is a longer battery life. Surprisingly, our lab data revealed that this is not the case, in fact, there's very little correlation. It's true, we found the cheapest cordless vacuums (under $300) tend to average around 20 to 30 minutes of battery life. But we didn't find that the more expensive vacuums gave you more than the average battery life.  Figure 1: The y-axis shows the retail price of the cordless vacuums we tested, and the x-axis showcases cleaning time in minutes, which is representative of battery life. We divided this graph into four quadrants, each representing where the average cleaning time lands based on our lab testing (48 minutes) and the average retail price of $544.45. If a longer battery life meant more expensive, you'd see more vacuums live in that upper right quadrant of Figure 1 above. Instead, the pattern that emerged from our lab testing shows that the average battery life of 50 to 60 minutes is when we see the real break in performance. You can actually draw a line around 55 minutes to separate the two clusters of vacuums, with most of the ones that earn a spot in our top 10 lasting at least 60 minutes.
"The most consistent values in this round of stick vacuum testing regarding price and runtime were $200 to $550 and 30 to 50 minutes of runtime," said Breitenstein. "There are, of course, outliers that perform significantly better and significantly worse. After analyzing the data, stick vacuums that cost around $500 have the best and longest runtimes in this round of testing."The biggest takeaway is that our lab data proves you can find a top-performing vacuum with a long battery life at a middle-of-the-road price with the Dreame Z30, Shark Stratos and Levoit LVAC-300 all ticking this box.
AmazonThe best and the worst cordless vacuums for battery life As seen in Figure 1, two vacuums stand out: the Dreame Z30 (lower right quadrant) and the LG CordZero A949 Kompressor (upper left quadrant). But they stand out for opposite reasons. The Dreame Z30 tested battery life is a significant outlier, surpassing the second-best performer by 30 minutes. At 110 cleaning minutes, the Dreame Z30 is the single longest-running cordless vacuum we've tested. It also has a fairly reasonable price, at $500, putting it in the middle of the pack in affordability while offering outstanding overall performance.
With its 110 minutes tested cleaning time, the Dreame Z30 is a great option for large homes. Jeffrey Hazlewood/CNETBreitenstein says the battery life performance on the Dreame Z30 is unprecedented compared to the rest of the pack. "The only other stick vacuum that can slightly compare is the LeVoit LVAC 300 at 75 minutes and the Shark Stratos at 80 minutes," she said. On the other side of the testing spectrum, the LG CordZero A949. It has the single worst cleaning battery life we've measured at just 10.5 minutes and one of the highest prices at $1,000 without any sales. However, its suction performance is one of the best, which is why it earned a top spot on our best vacuums list months ago. It has since been displaced by newer arrivals, including the Shark Stratos, LVAC-300 and the Dyson V15 Detect -- both better at suction and much cheaper in cost.  Excluding these two outliers, most of the other cordless vacuums we've tested fall between 35 to 50 minutes cleaning battery life before the battery dies.
Using the Shark Stratos in the test lab on hardwood flooring gave us impressive scores for sand pickup. You can see our test carpet coming up next. Schylar Breitenstein/CNET Battery life vs. suction performance: Strong correlation   My theory was that the cordless vacuums with the higher sand pickup scores would have a lower cleaning time because they used more power to achieve better suction. Figure 2: The y-axis shows the retail price of the sand pickup percentage of the cordless vacuums we tested, and the x-axis showcases cleaning time in minutes, which is representative of battery life. We divided this graph into four quadrants, each representing where the average sand pickup average (71.04%) and the average cleaning time (48 minutes) lands. This is exactly what we found, with a couple of outliers we'll discuss later. Generally, the vacuums with the highest suction performance, measured by overall sand pickup average, tended to drain the battery faster. The top left quadrant of Figure 2 above, shows a sizable number of high-performing cordless vacuums like the Eureka ReactiSense 440 (33 minutes), LG CordZero A949 (10.5 minutes), having average or even poor battery life.
The display shows how much time is left with your battery life and your suction. Ajay Kumar/Cole Kan/CNET"The higher suction the vacuum uses, the shorter the battery life is going to be because the motor is working harder," said Breitenstein. "That's why the Eco mode, Med/Standard mode and the Turbo/Max mode have varying results in battery life." That makes our handful of positive outliers more notable. In the upper right quadrant, the Dreame Z30, with its 110-minute battery life, scored a strong, though not spectacular, sand pickup average of 81.78%. It's also joined in the top right quadrant by the Shark Stratos (95%), Levoit LVAC-300 (90%) and Shark Vertex (85%). The worst result belonged to the Narwal S10 Pro, which took 32 minutes to clean and had a notably lower score of 48% in the bottom left quadrant.
The Shark Stratos is our pick for the best overall cordless vacuum due to its strong performance on both hardwood and carpet. Shark/CNETIt's the only cordless vacuum that scored below 70% in our entire testing, though as Breitenstein points out, "The Narwal S10 Pro is a hybrid wet/dry vacuum. It's a bit harder to test the sand pickup for those because when it senses hardwood, it wants to use the mopping functionality. That's why they usually test lower percentage in pickup tests." Honorable mention also goes to the aforementioned Eureka ReactiSense 440, which has a modest 33-minute cleaning time, but the highest average sand pickup score of any cordless vacuum we've tested, with a 96% average. The Eureka is particularly unusual, according to Breitenstein, because it has a larger 25.9-volt battery compared with the Shark Stratos 25.2-volt battery. However, the Stratos still outperformed the ReactiSense in our battery life tests. Battery life vs weight: Pounds don't seem to matter
Battery life and weight is another relationship where I expected to see a stronger correlation. Generally speaking, you'd expect the heavier cordless vacuums to have a bigger battery, which should in turn give it a better cleaning time. This was not the case. Figure 3:  The y-axis shows the weight of the cordless vacuums we've tested and the x-axis showcases cleaning time in minutes, which is representative of battery life. We divided this graph into four quadrants, each representing where the average cleaning time lands (48 minutes) and the average weight of 7.71 pounds.  I was surprised by the results because the outcome and relationship I expected were reversed. Seen in the upper left quadrant of Figure 3, our lab data revealed that most heavier vacuums (7-plus lbs) like the Roborock F25 Ace Combo have a much shorter cleaning time (though it's worth noting that the F25 Ace Combo is a wet-dry vacuum, so it has more components involved than a standard stick vac, even if it does break down into a stick form).In the bottom right quadrant, the Dreame Z30 was again our standout. Its 110-minute cleaning time is powered by a cordless stick vacuum that weighs just 4.85 pounds.
Ryobi, Worx, DeWalt, Shark WandVac and Black+Decker Dustbuster PowerConnect use removable batteries, which are easy to swap out for spares. John Carlsen/CNET"Batteries are not all created equal," said Allen Rathey, Director at Indoor Health Council, an agency that educates professional cleaners to promote public health and healthy indoor environments. "The newest ones are lithium ion and lithium polymer types, and their performance can vary widely based on the system in which they are used. Lithium ion batteries have great "energy density" so often can be relatively light but deliver significant power."Buying advice based on CNET lab dataThe biggest takeaway from this analysis is that the best battery-operated stick vacuums aren't the most expensive ones. You can buy a cordless vacuum with an above-average battery life and above-average suction performance for an average price. Based on our lab data, the four best cordless vacuums for battery life that cost around $500 or less are:Dreame Z30 (110 minutes)Shark Stratos (80 minutes) Levoit LVAC-300 (75 minutes)Shark Vertex (63.6 minutes)Many companies claim lengthy cleaning times, often as much as 60 or 70 minutes. However, in our testing, we've found that's not always true. In fact, just the opposite, only a handful of cordless vacuums last longer than 60 minutes. That's what makes CNET lab testing so valuable. We can validate claims through our brand-agnostic testing. Based on our lab data, the four best cordless vacuums for suction performance for approximately $500 partially match up with our previous list: Eureka ReactiSense 440 (96%) Shark Stratos (95%) Shark PowerDirect Clean & Empty (91%) Levoit LVAC-300 (90%) The two overlaps are notable in both our lists: the Shark Stratos and Levoit LVAC-300 offer the best combination of battery life and suction performance without other compromises. This isn't surprising since both vacuums appear on CNET's best cordless vacuums page, which takes a holistic approach to scoring vacuums. When ranking vacuums on our best list, we don't just look at suction performance and battery life. We also take into account features, price and ease of use.Buy the Shark StratosBuy the Levoit LVAC-300
The Shark Stratos has useful LED headlights to help it find dust. Schylar Breitenstein/CNETWhen shopping for a cordless vacuum, pay close attention to these specsIf you're standing in a store or browsing online and trying to decide what cordless vacuum to buy, we've narrowed down these key specifications to look for. Air watts/suction power: Usually a number between 100 to 400, the higher the number, the better the vacuum's suction strength and ability to pick up debris. "The Dreame Z30 has 310 air watts and the LG Cord Zero has 265 watts," said Breitenstein. "Not a big margin in air watts, but the difference in battery life is profound."Weight, measured in pounds, is another factor to check, since that determines how easy a vacuum is to maneuver. Lighter cordless vacuums are usually between 4 and 8 pounds (counting the stick/body, main brush head and battery).Battery life:  Some manufacturers may give you a measure of battery capacity, measured in milliamp hours (mAh), with a higher number meaning a bigger battery and presumably a longer cleaning time. But we've found that doesn't always translate well into real-life usage, which is why our spec-validation during lab testing is so important. Special features: Performance is important, but is just one part of what makes a vacuum effective, Ben Sawyer, senior manager of product development at Shark told us in an email. Features like anti-hair wrap technology help ensure hair reaches the dust cup instead of clogging the brush roll, he said.
LG's CordZero A949 is a fantastic cordless vacuum with useful accessories and a dock it self-empties into. Chris Wedel/CNETExpert advice and cleaning tips  During this analysis, I reached out to industry experts and learned one easy tip we can all use on any vacuum right now to help boost its suction performance. Taylor Riley, partner and co-founder of AMR US Commercial Cleaning of Maryland, has years of residential and commercial cleaning experience. Riley says if you empty your dustbin more often, you'll see an increased suction performance and a longer battery life. "We've found that a clean, empty bin and a fresh battery is the closest you'll get to like-new performance every time," said Riley. "In the field, that drop in performance shows up as staff making extra passes over the same area, batteries draining faster and fine dust not getting picked up. The fix is usually as simple as emptying the bin and checking the filter."
The dustbin compacting starts to work when you push down the red handle. Cole Kan/Ajay Kumar/CNETFor most consumers, a vacuum's battery life shouldn't be the only feature they look for. Rathey says to judge each vacuum based on the features that help solve your home cleaning needs. Soil removal is just one factor to consider, he said. "Usability, sound levels, impact on indoor air quality, ease of maintenance, cost of filters, carpet or surface wear/impact and other factors," said Rathey. CNET agrees with this advice. For example, if you don't have any carpet in your home, you may not need a vacuum designed to suction debris from carpet material. But if you have carpet and pets, you want to look at vacuums with a strong suction and battery life. Breitenstein notes that it's important for consumers to pay attention to floor type when choosing a vacuum. "Data analysis on hardwood pickup tests show that most vacuums perform well on this test because it's a flat surface and requires less suction to pick up debris from hardwood," said Breitenstein. "Midpile carpet is a true test for a vacuum because the sand easily gets lodged into the dense carpet fibers. If a stick vacuum can produce decent results for this test, it's most likely suitable for all floor types."
Ry Crist/CNETEvaluating each vacuum as a whole product versus a feature is how we choose which are the best and the worst cordless vacuums. To see which cordless vacuums we graded as the best, see our best cordless vacuums, our best cheap vacuums, our best vacuums for carpet and best for hard floors. We've also tested the best vacuums for pet hair and looked at brand-specific comparisons, like the best Dyson and best Shark vacuums. How we test cordless vacuums The first thing to understand is how we test battery life on cordless vacuums. First, we make sure it's fully charged. Then, we run the cordless vacuum on medium suction (no Max or Eco mode) until it's fully drained and note the time. We do this three times and then take the average of these scores to get our result. Battery life vs. retail price To analyze this data, I took the list price (the full retail price) of the cordless vacuum, ignoring any deals, discounts or coupons. I also rounded up to the nearest dollar. It's also worth noting that some of the older cordless vacuums we've tested are either out of stock or have had significant permanent price cuts since they were first released, so the comparison may not be fully relevant, which is why older vacuums have been excluded even if they're still available. Battery life vs. suction performance The relationship between battery life and suction performance was the most complicated one to figure out. I took the average sand pickup scores for each vacuum we tested and compared them against the cleaning time. I excluded any vacuum for which we didn't have complete data in terms of cleaning time or suction. Battery life vs. weight For weight, I limited the weight to the cordless vacuum unit itself, not including any docks or accessories beyond the primary brush attachment and battery. I also want to call out the Eufy E20, because it was a unique combination of cordless vacuum and robot vacuum. The main vacuum unit normally sits docked in the robot. For this, I only took the weight of the cordless vacuum component, not the robot.
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.