The Heroku AI PaaS Suite of Products
Search overlay panel for performing site-wide searches
Search For:
Close
Salesforce (Heroku) Recognized as a Leader. Learn More!
Search
Open Search Popup
Account menu
DashboardDatabasesDataclipsElementsDocumentationSupport
Login
Sign Up
Products
Products
Discover Heroku’s AI PaaS (Platform as a Service), designed for effortless app deployment and scaling. Explore our cloud application platform features, reliable managed data services, and a robust ecosystem to power your modern applications.
Heroku PlatformDeploy, manage, and scale apps on Heroku, an AI PaaS based on a managed container system.Heroku AIBuild intelligent applications with managed inference and agents, MCP, and more.Heroku Data ServicesSimplify your data management with Heroku’s fully managed cloud databases and data services.Heroku EnterpriseThe Heroku experience developers love, with the enterprise features large companies need.Heroku SuccessExplore Heroku’s support options from Standard to Signature, with resources for developers and partners.Heroku Elements MarketplaceAccelerate your app development with our ecosystem of add-ons, integrations, and buildpacks.
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Developers
Developers
With Heroku's flexible app platform, you can focus on building apps, not infrastructure. Benefit from a meticulously designed developer experience, a polyglot platform supporting your favorite languages, and innovative AI PaaS features to enhance your development workflow.
Dev CenterDive into our comprehensive documentation and guides. Learn about building, deploying, managing, and scaling your apps.Languages
Python.NETJavaNode.jsGoPHPRubyScalaClojure
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Customers
Customers
Discover how companies in diverse industries like Healthcare, Entertainment, Automotive, Retail, FinTech, and more achieve growth and foster innovation with our powerful cloud application platform. Learn how they leverage Heroku’s AI PaaS for cutting-edge solutions.
Customer StoriesHeroku in action: See how organizations of all sizes and industries are succeeding with Heroku.Community StoriesExplore real-world experiences and perspectives on Heroku from developers and communities online.
Customer Story: Watch Duty
Discover how Watch Duty used Heroku to provide real-time wildfire alerts, achieving 100% uptime and scaling effortlessly during crises.
PricingResources
ResourcesLearn more about Heroku's AI PaaS and stay up to date on all Heroku announcements. Gain insights from our team through insightful content and discover how to leverage our platform effectively.
BlogStay up-to-date on Heroku news, important product releases, and valuable insights from the Heroku team.What is Heroku?Learn how Heroku’s AI PaaS simplifies app development, deployment, and scaling.EventsFind Heroku at an event near you! Explore our calendar of tech conferences and meetups.PartnersFor Consultants, ISVs, and technical solution providers looking to grow their business with pro-code solutions.Compliance CenterHeroku is a platform you can trust. Explore our compliance certifications and security measures.Help CenterFind answers to your questions in the Help Center. Browse FAQs, articles, and get support.
Latest News from the Heroku Blog
Securing Salesforce Integrations with Heroku AppLink
Sept 10 - by David Baliles
Improve your security model with Heroku AppLink, a managed bridge between Salesforce and Heroku that improves risk and governance.
Heroku AI PaaS Suite of ProductsDevelop and run apps using these Heroku Products.Get Started Now
Learn more about the suite of products that underpin today’s most innovative AI Platform as a Service.
HerokuHeroku is a fully managed container-based cloud platform, with integrated data services and a powerful ecosystem, for deploying and running modern apps. The Heroku developer experience is based on an app-centric approach to software delivery, and integrates with today’s most popular developer tools and workflows.Explore the Heroku Platform
More Products
Heroku PlatformThe Heroku platform runs your apps inside dynos — smart containers which execute on a reliable, fully managed runtime environment. You can deploy code written in Node.js, Ruby, Java, PHP, Python, Go, Scala, or Clojure or use a custom buildpack to deploy apps in another language you choose. And you can scale your app instantly by increasing the number and type of dyno your app runs in.More on the Heroku Platform
Heroku AIHeroku AI provides a streamlined platform for building, deploying, and scaling AI applications and agents. Access an opinionated set of models from the world’s top AI providers to enable faster development with Managed Inference and Agents, along with extensibility through Model Context Protocol (MCP). As an AI PaaS, Heroku gives developers the infrastructure, tools, and managed services to quickly bring AI applications and agents to market—all within the trusted Heroku developer experience, with our hallmark simplicity.More on Heroku AI
Heroku Managed Inference and AgentsHeroku Managed Inference and Agents simplifies AI integration by providing managed access to powerful models and tools. Developers can easily build AI applications and agents, leveraging features like simple CLI commands, seamless application integration, and powerful agentic capabilities via MCP to focus on building value. Heroku Managed Inference and Agents makes AI accessible so you can focus on the value of your AI-enhanced applications rather than taking on the complexity of operating rapidly evolving AI technology.More on Heroku Managed Inference and Agents
Heroku PostgresHeroku’s trusted, secure, and scalable Postgres SQL database as a service, optimized for developers. With features like continuous protection, rollback and high availability, Heroku Postgres ensures your data is safe and always available at scale. Heroku Postgres is easy to set up and provides powerful features like forks, followers, and dataclips, so you can focus on building the apps that grow your business, not on database management.More on Heroku Postgres
Heroku Key-Value StoreHeroku Key-Value Store gives you the Redis you love with a more robust developer experience, fully managed and delivered as a service by Heroku’s operational experts. Heroku Key-Value Store lets you gain performance visibility, manage your instances with a powerful CLI and federate data with Postgres to gain business insights using SQL tools.More on Heroku Key-Value Store
Apache Kafka on HerokuApache Kafka on Heroku is a distributed messaging service that combines the leading open source solution for managing event streams with the Heroku developer experience, so you can build data-intensive apps with ease. Whether you’re taming a constellation of microservices, building data pipelines, or scaling your app gracefully to process billions of events, Kafka on Heroku gives you powerful tools for topic and partition management, log compaction, and up-to-date metrics.More on Apache Kafka on Heroku
Heroku ConnectHeroku Connect allows you to easily build Heroku apps that share data with your Salesforce deployments at scale, by providing seamless data synchronization between Heroku Postgres databases and Salesforce organizations.More on Heroku Connect
Heroku EnterpriseHeroku Enterprise frees teams at large companies to innovate thanks to the developer experience used by today’s leading startups, but with the trust, control and advanced collaboration that enterprise IT organizations need. Heroku Enterprise provides a powerful set of features, including fine-grained access controls, identity federation and private spaces, to manage your enterprise application development processes, resources, and users.More on Heroku Enterprise
Heroku ElementsHeroku Elements let you extend your app with Add-ons, customize your language stack with buildpacks and jumpstart your projects with buttons. Add-ons are pre-integrated third-party cloud services that you can use to immediately extend your app with a range of functionality such as data stores, logging, payments, monitoring and more.More on the Elements Marketplace
Heroku TeamsHeroku Teams provides powerful collaboration and controls so you can bring your people, processes and tools together to build great software, with the ease of the Heroku developer experience. Your teams can self-organize, add and manage members, get fine-grained control with app-level permissions and use collaboration tools like Heroku Pipelines to define your software delivery process – all with delegated administration and centralized billing.More on Heroku Teams
See What’s New at Heroku
Ready to Get Started?Stay focused on building great data-driven applications and let Heroku tackle the rest.Sign Up Now
Products
Heroku Platform
Heroku AI
Heroku Managed Inference and Agents
pgvector for Heroku Postgres
MCP on Heroku
Heroku Data Services
Heroku Postgres
Heroku Key-Value Store
Apache Kafka on Heroku
Heroku Enterprise
Heroku Private Spaces
Heroku Connect
Heroku Shield
Heroku Success
Heroku Teams
Elements Marketplace
Languages
Python
.NET
Java
Node.js
Go
PHP
Ruby
Scala
Clojure
Resources
Dev Center
Training & Education
Get Started
Pricing
Blog
Customers
Partners
Compliance Center
Solutions
Podcasts
About Us
What is Heroku?
Heroku & Salesforce
Careers
Help Center
Status
Contact
Rss
X-twitter-square
Github
Linkedin
日本語
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
© Copyright 2025 Salesforce, Inc. All rights reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners. Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105, United States