Zuckerberg's Meta AI Glasses Demo Goes Wrong Live on Stage — Twice - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Tech
Mark Zuckerberg's Meta AI glasses demo went wrong live onstage — twice
By
Katherine Li
Meta's AI glasses demos glitched twice at the 2025 Meta Connect event.
CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS
2025-09-18T02:50:05Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Meta's AI glasses demos glitched twice at the 2025 Meta Connect event.
CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his team blamed the hiccups on the WiFi connection.
Andrew Bosworth, the chief technology officer of Meta, promised to debug the wristband issues.
Mark Zuckerberg's Meta AI glasses demo went wrong live onstage — twice.
On Wednesday, the CEO took to the stage at the company's annual Meta Connect event to reveal the second-generation Meta Ray-Bans, a neural wristband, Meta Ray-Bans Display with heads-up display, and sports-centered glasses with Oakley.To drive his point home that AI should serve people and not just "sit in a data center," Zuckerberg connected food content creator Jack Mancuso to the big screen for a live demo on how the newly upgraded Ray Ban Meta glasses could help Mancuso cook — and that is when things began to get awkward.
Mancuso asked the glasses with voice control to show him how to mix a "Korean-inspired steak sauce" for his steak sandwich, but instead of starting with the basics, the AI responded that he should use soy sauce and sesame oil. Mancuso pressed the question of what he should do first multiple times, but the AI ignored his inquiries and moved on with its instructions."You've already combined the base ingredients, so now grate the pear and gently combine it with the base sauce," the AI repeated twice.Mancuso handed the stage back to Zuckerberg and chalked the incident up to a "messed-up" WiFi, and the audience gave an encouraging cheer.
"The irony of the whole thing is that you spend years making technology and then the WiFi at the day catches you," Zuckerberg said before moving on.The second live demo glitch was not long after he revealed the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses alongside a neural wristband, and called it "one of those special moments."The Ray-Ban Display is the newest addition to Meta's smart glasses lineup. Not only does it have voice assist and camera features like the Meta Ray-Bans, which have been out for two years, the Meta Ray-Ban Display also has a heads-up display, or HUD, that appears on the right side of the glasses to deliver notifications and navigation prompts without requiring users to look down at a phone.
During the live demo of the Meta Ray-Ban Display, Zuckerberg used the wristband to type messages to Andrew Bosworth, Meta's chief technology officer.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
But the demo had a hiccup when Zuckerberg suggested that Bosworth give him a video call. The CEO repeated hand motions with the wristband in attempts to pick up the calls, but none worked, before Bosworth came to the rescue in person."This WiFi is brutal," said Bosworth.
"Yeah, I don't know," Zuckerberg responded. "We'll debug that later. You practice these things like 100 times, and then, you never know what's going to happen.""I promise you no one is more upset about this than I am, because this is my team that now has to go debug why this didn't work on the stage," Bosworth added.An editor at Business Insider noted that WiFi at large conferences is often spotty. Business Insider reached out to Meta for more information.
Meta shares saw moderate gains of half a percentage point after the demonstrations, and the demo glitches did not seem to lower audience morale. To put it in Bosworth's words, "this is how we know it's live."
Recommended video
AI
Meta
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account