Three Months With iOS 26: What I Love and What Could Use Some Work - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechServices & Software Operating Systems
Three Months With iOS 26: What I Love and What Could Use Some Work
Apple's new OS mostly hits the right notes, but there's plenty the tech giant could improve on.
Article updated on September 21, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Zachary McAuliffe
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Zachary McAuliffe Staff writer Zach began writing for CNET in November, 2021 after writing for a broadcast news station in his hometown, Cincinnati, for five years. You can usually find him reading and drinking coffee or watching a TV series with his wife and their dog. Expertise Web hosting | Operating systems | Applications | Software Credentials Apple software beta tester, "Helps make our computers and phones work!" - Zach's grandparents
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Apple/ Zooey Liao/ CNET
Table of Contents
Three Months With iOS 26: What I Love and What Could Use Some Work
Call screening and Liquid Glass are the biggest (but not only) improvements in iOS 26
iOS 26 has more upgrades below the surface
Games and Visual Intelligence have some catching up to do
Final word on iOS 26
The wait is over. Apple released iOS 26 on Sept. 15, about three months after the company announced the free iPhone update at its Worldwide Developers Conference in June. So you can download the free iPhone update now. Since Apple first announced iOS 26, I've been living with the beta software on two iPhones: my iPhone 16 Pro and 14 Pro. I would have downloaded it on my iPhone XR, too, but that device doesn't support the software (sorry to anyone who still has an XR).After using the iOS 26 beta, I found a lot of the new features to be fun and useful. The Liquid Glass redesign looks clean and is visually impressive. Call screening, a true game-changer, manages to protect you from robocalls while still allowing other folks to reach you. And iOS 26 brings other hidden upgrades to my iPhones that still manage to surprise me. While most of these upgrades are good, iOS 26 takes half-measures at times. Some features are moving in the right direction but need work. The new Games app feels as though it hasn't been fully built out yet, and Visual Intelligence's ability to add information to your Calendar could use improvement.But the Liquid Glass redesign helps usher in a more immersive visual experience for Apple users, and overall, the update adds more functionality to your phone. It's not a fundamental reworking of the iPhone's operating system, but it offers nice quality-of-life upgrades that help Apple stay apace with its competition. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.Call screening and Liquid Glass are the biggest (but not only) improvements in iOS 26Call screening is the one feature I didn't know I neededI've never heard someone say, "Oh boy, a spam call! I love these!" So when Apple announced call screening at WWDC, I was interested to see how effective this feature was. And let me tell you, it's awesome. It might be my single favorite feature in iOS 26.
Call screening is my favorite new feature in iOS 26. Apple/CNETThere are two options for call screening: Ask Reason for Calling and Silence. Apple describes the Silence option like this: "Calls from unsaved numbers will be silenced, sent to voicemail, and displayed on the Recents list." The Silence setting means only numbers you have saved in your Contacts will cause your iPhone to ring. That's a little extreme for me, so I opted for the Ask Reason for Calling option. When a number outside of my Contacts tries to call me, the caller gets a prompt asking why they're trying to reach me. When the caller responds, my device pings me and transcribes the person's answer so I can decide whether to accept or not. Most spam calls don't leave a response and therefore don't bother me, which I love. Leave me alone! Thanks to call screening, these spam calls aren't wasting my -- or the spam caller's -- time.Liquid Glass looks good after tweaks during the beta processThe most dramatic change iOS 26 brings to your iPhone is the new redesigned Liquid Glass visual interface. This is the biggest visual update to your iPhone since the company released iOS 7 in 2013… back when Henry Cavill first put on Superman's iconic suit and cape and I had just graduated from college with a twinkle in my eye. People were divided over the Liquid Glass design when Apple announced it. Some liked it, while others -- myself included -- thought the glass effects made things hard to read. But after trial and error during the beta process, I think Apple found the right balance of glass and frosted effects to make this design work. I'm impressed with the overall look of Liquid Glass. Everything appears to squish and wiggle when you interact with it, which is fun, and the way the light refracts through the affected items looks excellent. These affected items blend into Safari, Photos and other apps like chameleons, and items change font colors depending on what's behind them. This makes for clean graphics and animations that are more immersive and less visually disruptive.
Liquid Glass elements can adjust themselves when they go over darker and lighter objects on your screen. Apple/CNETApple also builds on the tinted app icons feature introduced in iOS 18, but now with clear icons. The clear option removes all color, giving your icons a translucent, ghostly look. While I was initially hesitant, the feature has grown on me. Some icons that are pretty busy still don't play nice with this option, but I think Apple has struck a nice level of frostedness.
I used to be team dark mode, but the clear icons have won me over.  Apple/CNETMany of the Liquid Glass changes are focused on aesthetics rather than function. So while menus look different and the controls in your Control Center have a polished look, almost everything should feel familiar when you use it. I just wish Apple would address the transition between lock and home screens. When you unlock your iPhone and swipe up to get to your home screen, you can see the Liquid Glass layer move up the screen but not the wallpaper beneath it. In past iOS versions, your lock screen wallpaper would roll up the screen as you switched to your home screen. With Liquid Glass, if your home screen wallpaper is different from your lock screen's, it might look like your iPhone is glitching because your lock screen is seemingly not moving.Otherwise, I like Liquid Glass in its current state. It appears that Apple took user feedback to heart in the beta process for iOS 26. If you still don't like it, you can reduce the transparency in the Accessibility section of Settings.Lock screen updates and big clockApple continues to make the lock screen more customizable and functional with iOS 26. The most significant change is the big clock. Note that "big clock" is not the official name of this feature, but it takes up almost half of your lock screen, so what else am I supposed to call it? As a visually impaired person, I really appreciate the big clock. Now, when I take my glasses off at night, I don't have to bring my iPhone up to my face to check the time.
Big clock is cool, but I don't know if it's cooler than that pup.  Apple/CNETMy one complaint about the big clock is that you can only use it with one clock font, and I'd like to spread the love to other fonts. Otherwise, you can change its color to match your background, make the numbers thicker or change its design between Glass (more transparent) and Solid (a more standard-looking clock). I also appreciate being able to move my widget bar to a new home. You can house your widgets near the top of your screen, right underneath the clock, or you can move them to the bottom of the screen, just above your controls. This is partially an extension of the big clock option because if you enable that feature, your widgets automatically move to the bottom portion of your lock screen to accommodate the large numbers, though you can also move them around without it.Just having the freedom to move widgets to another location on your lock screen is a huge plus for me. I've wanted the ability to move widgets and controls around the lock screen for years, and this change brings my iPhone one step closer to that reality.iOS 26 has more upgrades below the surfaceApple has a lot of upgrades in iOS 26, some of which didn't get a lot of airtime during the WWDC keynote. But that doesn't make them any less important or helpful.With iOS 26, you can adjust your alarm's snooze length to anywhere from 1 to 15 minutes. This change makes me so happy. The old snooze length was 9 minutes -- not 10 or even 5 minutes -- which always irritated me because I think 9 is such an ugly number. So being able to adjust the snooze length is satisfying.
Sometimes it's nice to have 15 extra minutes of sleep. Apple/CNETWhen you charge your iPhone with iOS 26, your lock screen will show how long it will take and whether your charger is working slowly or not. I have a charging pad that lets me charge two devices at once. When I had my phone on it with another device, my iPhone would say that it was plugged into a slow charger, and it would take at least an hour to charge fully.Speaking of battery, iOS 26 also brings a new adaptive power feature that's truly helpful, especially for gaming. It can detect when your iPhone is using more power than usual -- say, to play a game like Retro Bowl '26 -- and it will make performance adjustments to extend your battery life. It saves power in small ways, like lowering the screen brightness or decreasing the power the processor is using, which can make some activities take longer.The update is also close to making me an Apple Music subscriber. The biggest new feature in the streaming service is its lyric translation and pronunciation guides. These can be helpful when listening to popular artists like Bad Bunny (who raps in Spanish) and your favorite K-pop artists, if you're curious about the lyrics. But these features aren't available on every song or in many languages, so I'm stuck wondering what German bands like Rammstein are singing about.  iOS 26 introduces new filters to Messages, such as for spam and messages from unknown senders. My favorite filter is for drafts. With it, you can easily see messages you were working on but accidentally didn't send or messages you were going to send, but a push notification distracted you. While those changes are more functional, some iOS 26 changes are more concerned with form and aesthetics. The new spatial scenes feature turns almost any picture in your Photos app into a 3D image, where elements shift and change perspective. You can also use spatial scenes on your lock screen to give your wallpaper some depth.Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhones also get an upgraded Genmoji app that can now combine standard emoji into new ones. Previously, you had to either describe an emoji or use the Genmoji suggestions to create a new custom emoji. But using pre-existing emoji simplifies the process of creating a new emoji, like this Cincinnati Bengals emoji I made, which I'll be using this football season.
I'm not giving up on the Bengals any time soon. Apple/CNETGames and Visual Intelligence have some catching up to doWhile there's a lot I like about iOS 26, there are some things that I didn't find that impressive or thought could use some more work. You might like these features, but they aren't for me, at least not until Apple works on them some more.Games app feels unfinishedWhen Apple announced the new Games app at WWDC and after I used the beta for a while, I was pretty excited about it. It can keep track of all the games you download, offer quick access to Apple Arcade, help you stay in touch with friends and compete with others in those games. It's similar to a gaming console home screen. I liked the Games app at first, but I found some aspects of it annoying the more I used it.My biggest issue is that you can't delete games from the app's library, even if those titles aren't available to download and install from the App Store anymore. Once you download a game to your device or another device with your Apple ID, it becomes attached to your library seemingly forever. For example, Sega removed support for the mobile version of Crazy Taxi a few months ago. I stopped playing the game and deleted it from my device to make space, and now it sits in my library. I can't redownload Crazy Taxi from the App Store because Sega no longer supports the game. When I see Crazy Taxi in Games, it's like I'm being taunted. You can filter out uninstalled games in the app, but I want to see all the games I've played in case I want to return to one in the future. Though I'd love to revisit Crazy Taxi and its awesome soundtrack, I can't on my iPhone. So I wish I could just remove it and other unplayable games.
Playing Crazy Taxi on the Dreamcast is one of my core memories.  Apple/CNETI also want a menu that shows which of my contacts have certain games on their device or connected to their account, so I can challenge them to play. I can still challenge or invite people to play a game like A Slight Chance of Sawblades but if they don't have access to the game or have never played it, my invite feels like peer pressure.I wish the Games app worked with other gaming apps, too. As of now, it works with games from mobile services, like Apple Arcade and Netflix Games, as well as any game you buy or download through Apple's App Store, like Clash Royale or Roblox. But if you have the iOS Steam app, it won't show up in Games. So it's not a comprehensive hub for gaming on your mobile device.I also want Apple to make it easier to connect a controller through the Games app. You can still connect an 8BitDo or Xbox controller through the Bluetooth menu, but it would be helpful if there was a shortcut button in the Games app that can search for connectable controllers nearby.The Games app seems like a good start, but it leaves a lot to be desired. I hope Apple expands this app in the future and adds more functionality.Visual Intelligence can be improvedApple introduced Visual Intelligence with iOS 18 in the iPhone 16 lineup in 2024. It lets you do an image search with Google or start a prompt with ChatGPT about whatever your camera is pointed at. iOS 26 upgrades the feature to support screenshots. This is a nice touch, but the Google Search menu wouldn't always immediately disappear when I wanted it to after searching for a screenshot online.Adding events to Calendar from Visual Intelligence could also be frustrating if you're using a picture or screenshot with multiple listings -- while you can edit and customize calendar events, Visual Intelligence defaults to picking the first listed item. When you take a screenshot or use Visual Intelligence on a concert poster, a button appears to Add to Calendar. When you tap it, your iPhone creates an event based on the first entry in the list or on the poster which you can add to your Calendar by tapping Create Event. You can edit the information if it's not correct by tapping Edit, but at that point, you might as well manually input it. Also, there didn't appear to be a way to select a different date and location for Visual Intelligence if various options were available.
Happy to see Franz Ferdinand are still performing, but Orlando is not near Cincinnati.  Apple/CNETFinal word on iOS 26Overall, I like the changes Apple introduces with iOS 26. Call screening is super helpful, and the Liquid Glass design is aesthetically pleasing without being cumbersome. The update builds on aspects of iOS 18, in particular the ability to change app colors and customize your home and lock screen more. In that regard, iOS 26 feels like the natural next step after iOS 18. Just know that some new features feel incomplete, but maybe Apple will improve on these features in subsequent updates.For more on iOS 26, here's how to enable call screening, how to make your home screen's app icons clear in the update and all the new ringtones on your iPhone. You can also check out our iOS 26 cheat sheet for other tips and tricks.
Watch this: iPhone Air Review: A Joy to Hold, at a Cost
10:06
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
ZACHARY MCAULIFFE
Staff writer Zach began writing for CNET in November, 2021 after writing for a broadcast news station in his hometown, Cincinnati, for five years. You can usually find him reading and drinking coffee or watching a TV series with his wife and their dog.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.