How to complete the 'Hostile Takeover" quest in Path of Exile 2
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Path of Exile II
Find the best location to establish a Hideout
‘Hostile Takeover’ quest walkthrough in Path of Exile 2
By
Paulo Kawanishi
Published Sep 2, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Graphics: Paulo Kawanishi/Polygon | Source Images: Grinding Gear Games
Jump Links
How to complete the ‘Hostile Takeover’ quest in Path of Exile 2
Path of Exile 2 Hideouts explained
In Act 4 of Path of Exile 2, you can start the “Hostile Takeover” quest as soon as you get to Kingsmarch. By talking to Ange next to the waypoint, you'll be asked to find a suitable location for your Hideout. Although her request is straightforward, it’s also pretty vague, but don’t fret. We will take you to the exact location where you can establish a brand-new Hideout. Below we explain how to complete the “Hostile Takeover” quest along with what you can do with your Hideout.
How to complete the ‘Hostile Takeover’ quest in Path of Exile 2
After you have accepted the “Hostile Takeover” quest from Ange, you need to sail to Whakapanu Island, which is southeast of Kingsmarch. To get there, talk to Makoru to open the world map and select Whakapanu Island as your destination.
Graphics: Paulo Kawanishi/Polygon | Source Images: Grinding Gear Games
Your next step is to find the Singing Caverns on Whakapanu Island. Since the maps in Path of Exile 2 are different every time, it’s difficult to say where you will find the Singing Caverns. In our experience, the entrance was located northwest of where we landed on the island. Once you’re inside the Singing Caverns, you need to defeat the main boss of the area, Diamora, Song of Death. If you haven’t by this point, consider boosting your Cold Resistance before facing this enemy.
Image: Grinding Gear Games via Polygon
Diamora has two forms that you'll encounter throughout the battle. In their first form, Diamora has a plethora of moves that you'll need to look out for. For one of their main moves, they'll go into the water and jump twice from the outer ring to the central pool with waterspouts appearing behind them. You can’t hit them while they are jumping, so focus on staying away from the waterspout they invoke. After they land, the boss always uses a cold breath attack, which you can avoid by positioning beside or behind them. Diamora does have a few other moves where they'll slam a giant ball of water onto you and spawn multiple waterspouts in the vicinity, so make sure dodge roll out of there!
Image: Grinding Gear Games via Polygon
Once you've dealt with 40-50% of Diamora's health, they'll transform in the center of the arena, become untargetable, and emit a strong, petrifying light. Turn your character away from them — if you look at the boss, you get petrified — and try to move around the area, running from the light. Deal with the enemies around the arena and avoid the water bubbles until Diamora undoes her transformation. After you've defeated Diamora, Song of Death, return to Kingsmarch, and talk to Ange. Select the “Travel to Shoreline Hideout” dialogue option to be transported to a beach full of creatures. Defeat all of the enemies in the area, and then speak with Ange again to finally unlock your Hideout.
Path of Exile 2 Hideouts explained
Hideouts work like your character’s house in Path of Exile 2. Hideouts have been present in the game since the beginning of the early access period, and, after the 0.3 update “The Third Edict”, you unlock a Hideout by completing the “Hostile Takeover” quest.
Image: Grinding Gear Games via Polygon
Below, you see all the key systems you have access to in your Hideout:
Stash
Waypoint
Well
Salvage Bench
Reforging Bench
Relic Locker
Map Device
Wardrobe Decoration
You can also customize your Hideout by placing items bought in the Microtransaction Shop and earned by completing achievements. One of the main reasons why you want to unlock your Hideout is so you can use Ange’s services. Ange is the NPC who manages your shop in Path of Exile 2 and allows you to sell items to other players even when you’re offline, which is a new trading system added in the 0.3 update. To set up your shop and sell items with Ange, you need to buy a Merchant’s Tab that costs 40 gold in the Microtransaction Shop.
Guides
Path of Exile 2 Guides
PlayStation
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
A new Nintendo Direct is coming Sept. 12
Sep 9, 2025
Once I learned Silksong's most important skill, I almost quit the game
Sep 9, 2025
Of course the Borderlands 4 beer is an IPA
Sep 9, 2025
Your car might be 'an Xbox' now
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Cronos: The New Dawn's cats bring its protagonist to life
PSA: You have 1 week to claim these free shiny Legendary Pokémon in Scarlet and Violet
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.