Forget Dyson: This stick vacuum reliably handled my wet and dry messes (and it's on sale) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Smart Home
Forget Dyson: This stick vacuum reliably handled my wet and dry messes (and it's on sale)
Dreame is shaking the wet-dry mop market with the H15 Pro CarpetFlex, a unit that comes with a hard floor brush and a carpet brush.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 9:03 a.m. PT
Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex
ZDNET's key takeaways The Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex is available now for $699.As a wet and dry vacuum, the H15 Pro CarpetFlex has 23,000Pa of suction power, a brush that can cut through hair, and RGB detection to identify messes.Changing the brush rollers can take some getting used to, as I had some initial user errors with it. View now at AmazonView now at Dreametech more buying choices Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.While robot vacuums automate everyday cleaning tasks, there are other solutions for the jobs robots can't handle. You can't deploy your robot vacuum to clean up your toddler's spilled cereal and milk, but you can grab a wet/dry mop instead of reaching for the paper towel roll. Wet/dry mops are engineered to vacuum most types of messes in front of them, whether it's crackers, juice, pet hair, or food. They vacuum up the mess and a roller then mop to leave clean floors behind. Until the Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex, wet/dry vacuums only worked on hard floors.Also: I left my robot vacuum running for 10 days while I was away - here's what I came home toThe new H15 Pro is a wet/dry vacuum with two interchangeable brushes that switch from vacuum and mop to vacuum only. In addition to functioning just like a wet/dry vacuum to pick up spills and then mop floors, the Dreame H15 Pro is also an upright vacuum for carpets and rugs.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex The Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex can automatically detect its brush type to adjust its function, from wet & dry vacuuming to vacuuming carpets.
details
View at Dreametech 'Upright' is used loosely since the Dreame H15 Pro can lie completely flat to fit under furniture. It even has a small wheel on the back of the body to maneuver the vacuum easily when lying flat.I experienced some user error when initially setting up and using the robot, especially when swapping brushes. The instructions explain how to do it well enough, but clipping on the latch to switch on a brush can take a few tries. Also: Why one of the best robot vacuums for pets is from a brand you've never heard ofDreame says that this vacuum is intelligent enough to detect the type of brush roll to automatically adjust its cleaning setting from vacuuming and mopping to only mopping.Even though I've used multiple wet/dry mops in the past, I had some mixed experiences when I first started testing the H15 Pro CarpetFlex. Switching the brush rollers took a few tries to get used to the mechanism, but transitioning from the carpet brush to the mop roller.
You don't have to lift the H15 Pro to change its brush roller. Amazon/ZDNETI did find that the carpet brush got a bit wet when I went from mopping to vacuuming, especially around the edges, which was less than ideal. I made a few passes on the hard floor until no more water was visible, and then I moved to the carpet and rugs.The vacuum feature performs very well, especially compared to similarly priced stick and traditional vacuums. The Carpet Brush is dense, so it doesn't get tangled in hair, and it can effectively clean low, medium, and high-pile rugs and carpets. Also: I tested a robot vacuum with 19,000Pa of suction power, and it left my Roomba in the dustThe vacuumed debris is disposed of in the dirty water tank, so it doesn't become airborne, limiting allergens in the air. As a wet/dry vacuum alone, the H15 Pro CarpetFlex is one of the best I've tried, topped only by the Mova X4 Pro because the latter also has a hot water spray and a pull-up charging station. However, the Dreame can also replace your traditional and stick vacuum, making it a better two-in-one solution.
If you're wondering which brush you left on the Dreame, the rollers have the name on the end (Hard floor brush and carpet brush). Maria Diaz/ZDNETWhen you put the Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex back on the dock to recharge, you can run a self-cleaning cycle. This will wash the mop with 212-degree hot water and dry it at 194 degrees. If you self-clean the carpet brush, the unit does a cold water immersive wash and dries it like it does the mop.Out of all the wet/dry mops I've tested, this Dreame unit has been the only one that hasn't developed an unpleasant smell in between uses. These types of devices tend to do this, which is already achieving something others aren't quite getting right. I recommend emptying and rinsing the dirty water and debris canister after each use to prevent the growth of odor-causing bacteria. ZDNET's buying adviceHaving tested the Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex on multiple surfaces and rooms in my home, I've found that it's the best option for those looking for a single-floor cleaning solution for any room. Wet/dry mops are built for hard floors only, but most homes in the US have a combination of hard and soft floors, and the H15 Pro is perfect for this situation.Also: I replaced my deadbolt with this Apple HomeKey smart lock - and it's an iPhone user's dreamThe Dreame H15 Pro CarpetFlex is strong enough to tackle tough messes with 23,000Pa of suction power yet light enough to carry from one story to another, at just under 13 lbs. With up to 60 minutes of battery life, it can go from vacuuming and mopping your hallway to mopping up the bathroom floor after a shower to vacuuming a carpeted bedroom with just a quick swap of a brush. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I used Google Lens to identify my weirdest junk drawer items - here's how it did
Facebook's settlement payments are on the way - here's how much you can expect
Why I can't live without this magnetic USB-C accessory - and all the devices it can charge
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use