Apple's first iOS 26.1 beta is here with new features to try - and a big Wi-Fi fix | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
iOS
Apple's first iOS 26.1 beta is here with new features to try - and a big Wi-Fi fix
Though iOS 26.1 is a relatively minor update, it does enhance a few features and apparently fixes one key bug.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:30 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysApple has released the first public beta of iOS 26.1.The update adds new features and seems to fix at least one bug.iOS 26.1 is likely to launch around the end of October.Apple's iOS 26 is a little more than a week old, but the company has already released its first public beta of iOS 26.1. Now available for anyone to download and install, the first beta gives us a sign of what to expect when the final version is released.First up are new languages for Apple Intelligence. Currently, Apple's AI can handle requests and generate content across several major languages, including English, French, Italian, Spanish, Japanese, and Chinese (Simplified). New to the mix with iOS 26.1 are Chinese (Traditional), Danish, Dutch, Norwegian, Portuguese, Swedish, Turkish, and Vietnamese.Also on the language front, the latest update adds more languages to Live Translation, an improvement that Apple had promised. Currently, the feature supports English (UK, US), French, German, Portuguese, and Spanish. With iOS 26.1, you'll be able to translate to and from Chinese (Mandarin, Simplified, and Traditional), Italian, Japanese, and Korean.Apple's Music player gets a small but helpful trick. When you're listening to an album, a small mini player appears at the bottom with the name of the current song. Currently, if you want to skip to the next track, you have to switch from the mini player to full-screen mode. With iOS 26.1, you can simply swipe left or right on the mini player, and you'll be taken to the next or previous track.Another small change centers around Liquid Glass, the new translucent design Apple introduced to the iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch via its OS 26 updates. The keypad in the Phone app now adopts the Liquid Glass aesthetic, so the numbers blend into the background. If you don't like the new look, you can always tone it down.Here's a handy visual change for the Photos app. When you play a video through the app, a scrubber appears so you can quickly move forward or backward. Currently, the scrubber is hard to see as it has a faint appearance. With the latest update, the scrubber control receives a distinct background so you can more clearly see and control it.And for another visual enhancement, the Calendar now paints events with specific colors. Open the Calendar app and make sure it's in List view. Tap any event and you'll see it highlighted with a color based on its source.Finally, iOS 26.1 likely offers a number of bug and feature fixes. One reported fix addresses the Wi-Fi disconnect issues that many iPhone 17 owners have reported. Here, people say that the Wi-Fi cuts out and resumes only after the phone is unlocked. Some who have installed iOS 26.1 say that the problem has been resolved or at least is no longer reproducible.Along with iOS 26.1, Apple has also released the first public betas for iPadOS 26.1, MacOS Tahoe
26.1, and WatchOS 26.1.How to download iOS 26.1If you want to try iOS 26.1 specifically, head to Settings, select General, and then tap Software Update. Change the setting for Beta Updates to iOS 26 Public Beta and allow the update to download and install. Since this is just the first beta, it's going to be rough around the edges. That means you shouldn't install this on your primary phone. Instead, use a spare iPhone if you own one. I have an older iPhone that I use specifically for beta testing.Since this is just the first public beta, expect more fixes and features as Apple continues to work on iOS 26.1. The company hasn't shared a specific release date for this point update. But previous releases, such as iOS 18.1, iOS 17.1, and iOS 16.1, all launched toward the end of October. If that schedule holds, we can expect iOS 18.1 in another month or so.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
You can update your iPhone to iOS 26 right now (here's which models support it)
Upgraded to iOS 26? Watch out for this AI feature
How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before updating to iOS 26)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use