U.K. Inflation Holds at High Level Ahead of Bank of England Meeting — 2nd Update | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
Global News Select
U.K. Inflation Holds at High Level Ahead of Bank of England Meeting — 2nd Update
U.K. Inflation Holds at High Level Ahead of Bank of England Meeting — 2nd Update
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 17, 2025, 7:09:00 AM
By Ed Frankl
U.K. annual inflation stayed at an elevated level in August, likely keeping the Bank of England on wait-and-see mode as it prepares to hold its key interest rate this week.
Consumer prices were 3.8% higher than the same month of last year, matching July's rate, the Office for National Statistics said Wednesday. Economists polled by The Wall Street Journal expected a slightly higher 3.9% annual rise.
The BOE said in August that it expected inflation to reach 4% by September, largely as a result of government-regulated increases to water bills and rises in energy and food prices.
However, inflation remains stubbornly higher in Britain than in the neighboring eurozone, where prices were 2.1% up on August of last year. Inflation has jumped from 1.7% in September 2024.
While the European Central Bank President Christine Lagarde has said its monetary policy is in "a good place" with the key interest rate there at 2%, the outlook for borrowing costs in the U.K. looks more challenging. The bank's target for medium-term inflation is 2%.
BOE Gov. Andrew Bailey told lawmakers earlier this month that there was "considerably more doubt" about when to next cut the key rate from the current 4%.
Investors currently expect the central bank to hold the interest rate at its November meeting, ending the quarterly pace of rate cuts in place since August last year, that Bailey has called "careful and gradual".
Food inflation, which rose for a fifth-straight month to 5.1% in August from 4.9% in July, caught the attention of policymakers at the BOE's last meeting. They worry that households' inflation expectations can be strongly influenced by food prices.
They noted that April's 6.7% rise in minimum wage has fed through to higher food costs, as have new rules that shift food-packaging waste management from local government to producers.
Meanwhile, services prices remained high, rising 4.7% on year, largely a result of restaurant and hotels, the ONS said.
However, there are signs that the labor market is cooling, with pay growth declining in the three months to July and payrolls shrinking, albeit only marginally. The BOE has said the rollback in wage growth should help headline inflation return to the bank's target in the first half of 2027.
The looser labor market should bring down inflation back to similar rates as in the eurozone and U.S., allowing the BOE to cut rates to 3% by the end of next year, Capital Economics chief U.K. economist Paul Dales said in a note to clients.
"But we think the upside inflation risks are just too high for the Bank of England to cut interest rates [this week] or, more significantly, at the following meeting in November," he added.
Write to Ed Frankl at edward.frankl@wsj.com
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
September 17, 2025 03:09 ET (07:09 GMT)
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
Managed-Futures Funds Look to Rebound. Can They Help Diversify Your Portfolio? Whipsaws hurt now, resilience matters later.
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
AMD: The Intel-Nvidia Collaboration Is Worth Watching but Not a Death Blow The deal doesn’t alter our thesis that AMD will carve out a piece of the AI pie over time.
Brian Colello, CPA Sep 18, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility