This collection of a legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published 1 day ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
I don't mean it lightly when I say that Halo: The Master Chief Collection is one of the best bundles of games I've ever seen. Not just because you score a whole ton of amazing first-person shooters for a very agreeable price, but because the collection itself goes above and beyond what was expected of it. The end result is a, quite frankly, legendary product that I will always wholeheartedly recommend. Well, the entire collection just got a little easier to recommend. For a limited time, you can score the whole collection for $10, which is an absolute steal. And if you've never heard of the Master Chief Collection before, let me explain what makes it so good.
Halo: The Master Chief Collection is just $10 on Steam until September 29th
Halo: The Master Chief Collection does a ton right. For one, you can alternate between each title's original graphics and the remastered version at the press of a button. No, seriously, you can be standing in a room, think "I wonder what this looked like back on the original Xbox," hit a key, and the game immediately swaps to the older graphics. However, as much as I'm a diehard fan for the original Halo: Combat Evolved on the first Xbox, I must say that the remakes really make the older titles shine. Here's how Bungie describes the collection:
Halo: The Master Chief Collection is now optimized for PC and looking better than ever at up to 4k UHD and at 60+ FPS.* Other setting options include customizable mouse and keyboard support, ultrawide support, FOV customization, and more.
Featuring Halo: Reach, Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, Halo 2: Anniversary, Halo 3, Halo 3: ODST Campaign, and Halo 4, The Master Chief Collection offers players their own exciting journey through the epic saga. Starting with the incredible bravery of Noble Six in Halo: Reach and ending with the rise of a new enemy in Halo 4, the Master Chief’s saga totals 67 campaign missions over six critically-acclaimed titles.
Probably the most impressive part is that each game's multiplayer is fully operational. That's right; if you struggled to play Blood Gulch on the original Halo over a dial-up internet like I did, you can now re-live those memories on a far better internet connection, even if you realize that the map was a little too open for sniper rifles. You can snap up all six games for $10 on Steam right now, but you have to be quick; the deal goes away on September 29th.
Halo: The Master Chief Collection
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
First-Person Shooter
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
87/100
Critics Rec:
88%
Released
November 11, 2014
ESRB
M for Mature: Violence, Blood and Gore, Language
Developer(s)
343 Industries
Publisher(s)
Xbox Game Studios
Engine
Saber3D Engine for the single player portion of Halo: CE Anniversary and Halo 2 Anniversary; Unreal Engine 4 for UI and player customization; Halo Engine
Multiplayer
Online Multiplayer, Local Multiplayer
Cross-Platform Play
PC, Xbox One & Xbox Series X|S
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
SUBSCRIPTION
DIGITAL
PHYSICAL
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
1 day ago
I swapped Trello for Focalboard on my NAS, and it's so much better
1 day ago
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
2 days ago
I save space on my gaming console's hard drive by doing these 3 things all the time
1 day ago
Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
32 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 BIOS settings gamers forget to change
Windows 10 goes out with a whimper as its final non-security update clears up a few loose ends
The first Xbox-branded handhelds are finally up for pre-order, and the price is even higher than expected
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.