‘Revolutionary’ AI tools rescue old weather data to improve climate models
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
16 September 2025
‘Revolutionary’ AI tools rescue old weather data to improve climate models
Specialist machine-learning models are helping researchers to transcribe centuries-old handwritten records.
By
Davide Castelvecchi
Davide Castelvecchi
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Thousands of paper documents in the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s meteorological archives are now being digitized.Credit: Derrick Muheki/INERA DRCHow can countries find out how climate change will affect them at a regional scale? Can artificial intelligence (AI) help to forecast hurricanes and other extreme weather events? And has the world already blown past the most ambitious target of the Paris climate agreement — to limit global warming to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels?The need to address these and other questions is spurring researchers to tap into vast, unused repositories of handwritten weather records that span more than two centuries. These troves of valuable — but in some cases unreadable — data are now becoming easier to access with new, more sophisticated machine-learning tools.“All meteorological services around the world have some basement where they store data from the 1800s that has not been digitized,” says Marlies van der Schee, a climate scientist at the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute in De Bilt. “For many institutes, they don’t even know what is in their archives.”Searching for dataIn the quest to gather missing climate data, climate scientist Derrick Muheki has travelled farther than most. To access the meteorological archives of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) — which contain records from when the DRC became independent in 1960 collected from 37 weather stations across the country — Muheki had to fly from Kinshasa to Kisangani in the country’s north, travel along the Congo River by boat and then take an unpaved road on a motorcycle to reach the Yangambi branch of the DRC’s National Institute for Agronomic Research (INERA). There, he spent two months earlier this year scanning thousands of pages of weather logs.Muheki had to bring enough batteries to power his digital camera for the duration of the trip, as the remote branch of INERA is not hooked up to the DRC’s national grid. He learnt some of the Bantu language Lingala so that he could communicate with other INERA staff members. He says it helped that many of the words were similar to the language he grew up speaking in his native Uganda.Weather reports from old ships’ logs — such as this eighteenth century document from British vessel HMS Dolphin — contain data that can be fed into climate models. Credit: The History Collection via AlamyAfter returning to his research group at the Vrije Universiteit in Brussels, Muheki began to extract data from the more than 9,000 scanned images using a machine-learning tool he designed for reading the weather logs, called MeteoSaver1.In initial tests, MeteoSaver could only transcribe the data with 75% accuracy, but further refinements and training of its neural network — on the basis of an open-source package for handwritten-text recognition called Tesseract — have pushed that to 90%, he says.The resulting data will provide crucial information about how conditions have changed over time in the world’s second largest rainforest. Climate scientist Wim Thiery, Muheki’s adviser at the Vrije Universiteit, says that because of a lack of information about past temperatures, the forested heart of the African continent had a major data gap in the 2021 report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which assessed the severity and speed of global warming in various parts of the world. He hopes that efforts such as Muheki’s will help to rectify this.Forgotten figuresMuheki’s logistical hurdles were unusual, but the DRC is not the only country that is yet to fully digitize its weather records.“There are paper records still languishing in archives all over the world,” says Ed Hawkins, a climate scientist at the University of Reading, UK. These include millions of unused rainfall observations in the UK’s National Meteorological Archive.Is it too late to keep global warming below 1.5 °C? The challenge in 7 chartsHawkins has managed several projects that relied on citizen scientists to manually transcribe climate records. Ten years ago or so, machine-learning tools just weren’t up to the task, he says. The hardest part for AI tools is not reading handwritten text, but recognizing the tabular structure in the documents. “When I and colleagues started trying [AI] tools out, they just would not work on tabulated numbers,” says Hawkins. “It wasn’t in their training.” Much of Muheki’s work consisted of developing custom algorithms for doing just that. Now, the tools are finally becoming good enough to match human performance, says Hawkins, who is a co-author on the research paper that describes MeteoSaver.Similar efforts by other teams are showing that machine learning could drastically speed up the rate of recovery of historic records. “It’s really a revolution in our ability to rescue data,” says Thiery.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02798-y
ReferencesMuheki, D. et al. Preprint at EUGsphere https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2024-3779 (2024).Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Time for adults to finally act like adults on climate change
Is it too late to keep global warming below 1.5 °C? The challenge in 7 charts
How climate change will burden our children: data reveal a lifetime of extreme heat
Scientists struggle to access Africa's historical climate data
People were wrecking the climate 140 years ago — we just lacked the tech to spot it
Subjects
Climate sciences
Climate change
Machine learning
Latest on:
Climate sciences
Caribbean coral reefs are threatened by rising seas
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Coordinate to combat Pakistan’s climate-driven disasters
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Trump team disbands controversial US climate panel
News 11 SEP 25
Climate change
Caribbean coral reefs are threatened by rising seas
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Coordinate to combat Pakistan’s climate-driven disasters
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Trump team disbands controversial US climate panel
News 11 SEP 25
Machine learning
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
News Feature 17 SEP 25
Bring us your LLMs: why peer review is good for AI models
Editorial 17 SEP 25
People are more likely to cheat when they delegate tasks to AI
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry
City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) is one of the world’s leading universities, known for innovation, creativity and research.  We are now seeki...
Hong Kong (HK)
City University of Hong Kong
Related Articles
Time for adults to finally act like adults on climate change
Is it too late to keep global warming below 1.5 °C? The challenge in 7 charts
How climate change will burden our children: data reveal a lifetime of extreme heat
Scientists struggle to access Africa's historical climate data
People were wrecking the climate 140 years ago — we just lacked the tech to spot it
Subjects
Climate sciences
Climate change
Machine learning
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited