The Fed cuts interest rates for the first time this year : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
The Fed cuts interest rates for the first time this year The Fed lowered interest rates by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to cushion the sagging job market. The move comes as policymakers face growing pressure from President Trump.
Economy
Facing Trump's pressure, the Fed cuts rates for the first time this year
Updated September 17, 20252:09 PM ET
Originally published September 17, 20255:00 AM ET
Heard on
All Things Considered
Scott Horsley
Facing Trump's pressure, the Fed cuts rates for the first time this year
Listen
·
3:53
3:53
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5539555/nx-s1-9456329" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell and his colleagues lowered their benchmark interest rate Wednesday, amid fears of a weakening job market.
Kent Nishimura/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Kent Nishimura/Getty Images
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates by a quarter percentage point Wednesday in an effort to prop up the sagging U.S. job market. The move comes as Fed policymakers face mounting pressure from the White House.
As widely expected, the central bank lowered its benchmark interest rate to a range of 4% to 4.25%. That was the first such cut in nine months amid signs of a substantial slowdown in the pace of hiring. Fed policymakers also signaled that on average they expect to cut rates by an additional half-percentage point by the end of this year.
Sponsor Message
Loading...
President Trump wants much lower interest rates, and he has been waging a high-pressure campaign to exert more control over the central bank — bypassing safeguards designed to insulate the Fed from political pressure.
Trump tries to put his own stamp on the central bank
Trump installed a White House economist, Stephen Miran, as a new member of the Fed's governing board. The Senate voted mostly along party lines to confirm Miran's appointment on Monday, less than 24 hours before this week's Fed meeting began. Miran broke with his Fed colleagues on Wednesday and voted for a larger, half-point rate cut.
Trump also sought to prevent another member of the Fed's governing board from participating in the meeting. The president tried to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook in a social media post last month. Cook's dismissal has been temporarily blocked by federal courts. The White House says it will ask the Supreme Court to allow the firing to go forward.
If Trump ultimately succeeds in replacing Cook, his appointees would hold a majority on the Fed's seven-member governing board. Longtime Fed watchers say that this could seriously compromise the central bank's ability to make tough decisions on interest rates free from the short-term political demands of the White House.
Sponsor Message
Tariffs add to sticky inflation as hiring slows
The Fed has been cautious about cutting interest rates this year, out of concern that Trump's tariffs could rekindle inflation. Double-digit import taxes have raised prices on goods such as coffee, clothing and small appliances. The overall cost of living in August was up 2.9% from a year ago. That was the largest annual increase in seven months.
Concerns about stubborn inflation have taken a back seat for now, though, to worries about a weakening job market. U.S. employers added just 22,000 jobs in August, and revised figures show the economy actually lost jobs in June for the first time since 2020.
The unemployment rate remains low by historical standards, at 4.3%. But that's partly because the administration's crackdown on immigration is limiting the number of available workers.
"While the labor market appears to be in balance, it is a curious kind of balance that results from a marked slowing in both the supply of and demand for workers," Fed Chair Jerome Powell told a gathering of central bankers last month in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. "This unusual situation suggests that downside risks to employment are rising. And if those risks materialize, they can do so quickly in the form of sharply higher layoffs and rising unemployment." On average, members of the Fed's rate-setting committee project the unemployment rate will climb to 4.5% by the end of this year—the same rate they were forecasting in June.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor