Portuguese Restoration War - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Events leading to revolution
2
Preparations for war
3
Context: relations among the European powers
Toggle Context: relations among the European powers subsection
3.1
Relations between France and Spain
3.2
Relations between Portugal and France
3.3
Relations between Portugal and the Dutch Republic
3.4
Relations between Portugal and England
4
War
Toggle War subsection
4.1
First stage: battles
4.1.1
Battle of Montijo
4.1.2
Scope of the war
4.1.3
Attrition and corruption
4.2
Second stage: defensive standoff
4.2.1
Atrocities
4.3
Third stage: Portuguese victory
4.4
Recapitulation
5
Timeline
6
Results of the war
7
See also
8
Notes
9
References
Toggle References subsection
9.1
Citations
9.2
Sources
10
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Portuguese Restoration War
32 languages
العربيةCatalàDeutschEspañolEsperantoEuskaraFrançaisGalego한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתКъарачай-малкъарMagyarBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt吴语中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
1640–1668 war between Portugal and Spain
Portuguese Restoration WarPart of Anglo-Spanish Wars and Franco-Spanish WarsGerman engraving from the 1650s representing the episodes of the Portuguese restoration of independence. Clockwise from top left:
The assassination of Miguel de Vasconcelos and the arrest of the Duchess of Mantua
News of the coup d'état reaches the Lisbon populace
Acclamation of King John IV of Portugal
The Duke of Braganza is sworn as King of Portugal
Date1 December 1640 – 13 February 1668(27 years, 2 months, 1 week, 6 days)LocationPortugal and SpainResult
Portuguese victory[4]
Acclamation of John IV as the new King of Portugal (1640)[5]
The Habsburgs relinquish all claims to the Portuguese Throne
Treaty of Lisbon (1668)
End of the Iberian Union[5][6]Territorialchanges
Portugal cedes Ceuta and Hermisende to SpainBelligerents
Portugal
France (1641–1659)[1]
England (1662–1668)
Dutch Republic (1641–1648)[2][3]
Spain
Commanders and leaders
John IV of Portugal
Luisa de Guzmán
Afonso VI of Portugal
Peter II of Portugal
Marquis of Marialva
Count of Vila Flor
Count of Alegrete
Duke of Schomberg
Philip IV of Spain
Marquis of Carpio
John of Austria
Duke of Osuna
Marquis of Caracena
vtePortuguese Restoration War
São Filipe
1st Salvatierra de Miño
Montijo
1st Elvas
Talavera la Real
Vilanova
Lapela
2nd Salvatierra de Miño
Olivença
Mourão
1st Badajoz
1st Évora
2nd Elvas
Monção
2nd Badajoz
Arronches
Ameixial
2nd Évora
Valência de Alcântara
Castelo Rodrigo
Montes Claros
Berlengas
The Restoration War (Portuguese: Guerra da Restauração), historically known in Portugal as the Acclamation War (Guerra da Aclamação),[7] was the war between Portugal and Spain that began with the Portuguese revolution of 1640 and ended with the Treaty of Lisbon in 1668, bringing a formal end to the Iberian Union.
The period from 1640 to 1668 was marked by periodic skirmishes between Portugal and Spain, as well as short episodes of more serious warfare, much of it occasioned by Spanish and Portuguese entanglements with non-Iberian powers. Spain was involved in the Thirty Years' War until 1648 and the Franco-Spanish War until 1659, while Portugal was involved in the Dutch–Portuguese War until 1663.
In the seventeenth century and afterwards, this period of sporadic conflict was simply known, in Portugal and elsewhere, as the Acclamation War. The war established the House of Braganza as Portugal's new ruling dynasty, replacing the House of Habsburg who had been united with the Portuguese crown since the 1580 succession crisis.[5]
Events leading to revolution[edit]
Philip II & III of Portugal and Spain.
When Philip II of Portugal (III of Spain) died in 1621, he was succeeded by his son Philip III of Portugal (IV of Spain) who followed a different approach to Portuguese concerns. Portuguese merchants saw higher taxes, the Portuguese nobility began to lose its influence at the Spanish Cortes, and Spaniards increasingly occupied the government's posts in Portugal.
Moreover, Spain entangled Portugal in the efforts to suppress the independence of the Dutch Republic during the Eighty Years' War. In response, the Dutch embarked on systematic attacks on Portuguese colonies and outposts, either pillaging or occupying them in what is known as the Dutch–Portuguese War. Spanish preoccupation with defending their own empire, particularly in the Thirty Years War, left Portuguese interests in Asia and Brazil neglected.[8]
The situation culminated in a revolution organized by the nobility and bourgeoisie, executed on 1 December 1640, sixty years after the crowning of Philip I (Philip II of Spain), the first "dual monarch".
The plot was planned by Antão Vaz de Almada, Miguel de Almeida and João Pinto Ribeiro. They, together with several associates, known as the Forty Conspirators, killed the Secretary of State, Miguel de Vasconcelos, and imprisoned the king's cousin, Margaret of Savoy, who had been governing Portugal in his name. Philip's troops were then fighting the Thirty Years' War and also facing a revolution in the Principality of Catalonia, which became known as the Reapers' War.
The support of the people became apparent almost immediately and within a matter of hours, Philip III's third cousin John, 8th Duke of Braganza, was acclaimed as King John (João) IV of Portugal. The news spread quickly throughout the country. By 2 December 1640, the day after the coup, John IV, acting in his capacity as sovereign of the country, had sent a letter to the Municipal Chamber of Évora.
The ensuing conflict with Spain brought Portugal into the Thirty Years' War as at least a peripheral player. From 1641 to 1668, the period during which the two nations were at war, Spain sought to isolate Portugal militarily and diplomatically, and Portugal tried to find the resources to maintain its independence through political alliances and maintaining its colonial income.
Preparations for war[edit]
Wyvern, symbol of Portugal, keeping watch, pretending to sleep, while preparing its attack, Lusitania liberata ab injusto Castellanorum dominio, 1645.
Immediately after assuming the Portuguese throne, John IV took several steps to strengthen his position. On 11 December 1640, a 'Council of War' was created to organize all of the operations. Next, the king created the 'Junta of the Frontiers' to take care of the fortresses near the border, the hypothetical defense of Lisbon, and the garrisons and sea ports.[9]
A year later, in December 1641, he created a tenancy to assure that all of the country's fortresses would be upgraded and that the improvements would be financed with regional taxes. He also organized the army, re-established the 'Military Laws of King Sebastian',[9] and undertook a diplomatic campaign focused on restoring good relations with England.
After gaining several small victories, John tried to make peace quickly.[10] However, his demand that Philip recognize the new ruling dynasty in Portugal was not fulfilled until the reign of his son, Afonso VI, during the regency of Peter of Braganza, another of his sons, who later became King Peter II of Portugal). Confrontations with Spain lasted 28 years.
Context: relations among the European powers[edit]
Relations between France and Spain[edit]
John II, Duke of Braganza, waged the Restoration War and was acclaimed King John IV.
Cardinal Richelieu, the chief adviser to Louis XIII, was fully aware of the fact that France was operating under strained circumstances. Louis was at war with Spain at that time; he had to control rebellions within France that were supported and financed by Madrid and had to send French armies to fight the Spanish Habsburgs on three different fronts. In addition to their shared frontier at the Pyrenees, Philip IV of Spain, formerly Philip III of Portugal as well, reigned, under various titles, in Flanders and the Franche-Comté, to the north and east of France. In addition, Philip IV controlled large territories in Italy, where he could, at will, impose a fourth front by attacking French-controlled Savoy.[a][11]
Spain had enjoyed the reputation of having the most formidable military force in Europe, with the introduction of the arquebus and the so-called "Spanish School", but that reputation and tactic had diminished with the Thirty Years' War. Nevertheless, the consummate statesman, Richelieu, decided to force Philip IV to look to his own internal problems. To divert the Spanish troops besieging France, Louis XIII, on the advice of Richelieu, supported John's claim during the Acclamation War on the reasoning that a Portuguese war would drain Spanish resources and manpower.
Relations between Portugal and France[edit]
To fulfill the common foreign policy interests of Portugal and France, a treaty of alliance between the two countries was concluded at Paris on 1 June 1641. It lasted eighteen years before Richelieu's successor as unofficial foreign minister, Cardinal Mazarin, broke the treaty and abandoned his Portuguese and Catalan allies to sign a separate peace with Madrid.[11] The Treaty of the Pyrenees was signed in 1659. Under its terms, France received the portion of the Principality of Catalonia north of the Pyrenees, known as the Roussillon, and part of the Cerdanya (French Cerdagne). Most important to the Portuguese, the French recognised Philip IV of Spain as the legitimate king of Portugal.
Seven years later, in the late stages of the Portuguese Restoration War, relations between the two countries thawed to the extent that the young (but sickly) Afonso VI of Portugal married a French princess, Marie Françoise of Nemours.
Relations between Portugal and the Dutch Republic[edit]
At the time of the revolution in Lisbon (1 December 1640), the Portuguese had been at war with the Dutch for nearly forty years. A good deal of the conflict can be attributed to the fact that Spain and the Dutch Republic were concurrently engaged in the Eighty Years' War (1568–1648), and, ever since hostilities between Portugal and the Dutch Republic erupted in 1602, Portugal had been ruled by a Spanish monarch.
The Dutch-Portuguese War was fought almost entirely overseas, with the Dutch mercantile surrogates, the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch West India Company, repeatedly attacking Portugal's colonial possessions in the Americas, in Africa, in India, and in the Far East. Portugal was in a defensive posture throughout, and it received very little military help from Spain.
After the acclamation of John, the pattern persisted all over the Portuguese Empire until the final expulsion of the Dutch from Angola (1648), São Tomé (1649), and Brazil (1654). The Dutch signed a European truce with Portugal, helping each other somewhat against their common enemy, Spain. The Dutch resumed buying salt in the Setúbal salt factories, restarting commerce between the two countries for the first time since 1580, when the Spanish branch of the Habsburgs, against whom the Dutch were in revolt, had assumed the Portuguese throne. However, Dutch attacks on Portuguese territories persisted until 1663, even after the signing of the Treaty of The Hague in 1661.
Relations between Portugal and England[edit]
Catherine of Braganza before becoming Queen Consort of England, Scotland and Ireland, c. 1660–1661.
England was then embroiled in its own civil war. Portuguese problems in dealing with England arose from the fact that the English Parliament fought and won its anti-royalist war while, at the same time, Portugal's royal court continued to receive and recognize English princes and nobles. The strained relations persisted during the short-lived Commonwealth period, when the republican government that had deposed Charles I ruled England and then Ireland and Scotland.
After the restoration of the Stuart dynasty, it became possible for Portugal to compensate for the lack of French support by renewing its alliance with England,[12] with experienced soldiers and officers available from the demobilised New Model Army. That took the form of a dynastic marriage in 1662 between Charles II and Afonso VI's sister, Catherine of Braganza, which assured Portugal of outside support in its conflict with Spain. The English alliance helped peace with Spain, which had been drained by the Thirty Years' War and had no stomach for further warfare with other European powers, especially a resurgent England.
War[edit]
The Cross of the Order of Christ and the Cross of Burgundy[13] were respectively the standards more used by the Portuguese and Spanish regiments in the battlefields.[14]
Militarily, the Portuguese Restoration War consisted mainly of border skirmishes and cavalry raids to sack border towns, combined with occasional invasions and counter-invasions, many of them half-hearted and under-financed. There were only five major set-piece battles during twenty-eight years of hostilities.
The war may be considered to have had three periods:
first, an early stage (1640–1646) when a few major engagements demonstrated that the Portuguese could not be easily returned to submission to the Spanish Habsburgs,[15]
second, a long period (1646–1660) of military standoffs, characterized by small-scale raiding, while Spain concentrated on its military commitments elsewhere in Europe,[16]
third, a final period (1660–1668) during which the Spanish king, Philip IV, unsuccessfully sought a decisive victory that would bring an end to hostilities.[11]
First stage: battles[edit]
António Luís de Meneses, Marquis of Marialva, led victories at the Lines of Elvas.
Hoping for a quick victory in Portugal, Spain immediately committed seven regiments to the Portuguese frontier, but delays by the Count of Monterrey, a commander with more interest in the comforts of life at camp than the battlefield, squandered any immediate advantage. A Portuguese counter-thrust in late 1641 failed, and the conflict soon settled into a stalemate.
Battle of Montijo[edit]
On 26 May 1644, a large column of Spanish troops and mercenaries, commanded by Neapolitan Carlo Andrea Caracciolo, marquis of Torrecuso, was stopped at the Battle of Montijo by the Portuguese, who were led by the Matias de Albuquerque, one of a number of experienced Portuguese colonial officers who rose to prominence during the war.
Scope of the war[edit]
Luisa de Guzmán, Queen Consort of Portugal, previously Duchess of Braganza.
Three theaters of warfare were eventually opened, but most activity focused on the northern front, near Galicia, and on the central frontier between Portuguese Alentejo and Spanish Extremadura. The southern front, where the Portuguese Algarve abuts Spanish Andalusia, was a logical target for Portugal, but it was never the focus of a Portuguese attack, probably because the Portuguese queen, Luisa de Guzmán, was the sister of the Duke of Medina Sidonia, the leading noble of Andalusia.
Attrition and corruption[edit]
Spain, at first, made the war a defensive one. Portugal, for its part, felt no need to take Spanish territory in order to win, and it too was willing to make the war a defensive contest. Campaigns typically consisted of correrias (cavalry raids) to burn fields, sack towns, and steal large herds of enemy cattle and sheep. Soldiers and officers, many of them mercenaries, were primarily interested in booty and prone to desertion. For long periods, without men or money, neither side mounted formal campaigns, and when actions were taken, they were often driven as much by political considerations, such as Portugal's need to impress potential allies, as by clear military objectives. Year after year, given the problems of campaigning in the winter, and the heat and dry conditions of summer, most of the serious fighting was confined to two relatively short "campaigning seasons" in the spring and autumn.[15]
The war settled into a pattern of mutual destruction. As early as December 1641, it was common to hear Spaniards throughout the country lament that "Extremadura is finished." Tax collectors, recruiting officers, billeted soldiers, and depredations by Spanish and foreign troops were loathed and feared by the Spanish population as much as raids by the enemy. In Extremadura, local militias bore the brunt of the fighting until 1659, and the absence of these part-time soldiers was extremely harmful to agriculture and local finances. Since there was often no money to pay or support the troops (or to reward their commanders), the Spanish crown turned a blind eye to the smuggling, contraband, profiteering, disorder, and destruction that had become rampant on the frontier. Similar conditions also existed among the Portuguese.
Second stage: defensive standoff[edit]
John of Austria was instrumental in leading the Habsburg forces.
The war was also expensive. In the 1650s, there were over 20,000 Spanish troops in Extremadura alone, compared to 27,000 in Flanders. Between 1649 and 1654, about 29 percent (over six million ducats) of Spanish defence spending was appropriated for fighting Portugal, a figure that rose during the major campaigns of the 1660s.[17] Portugal was able to finance its war effort because of its ability to tax the spice trade with Asia and the sugar trade from Brazil, and it received some support from the European opponents of Spain, particularly France and England.[10]
The 1650s were indecisive militarily but important on the political and diplomatic fronts, with the brief exception of the Battle of the Lines of Elvas in 1659. The death of John IV in 1656 signalled the beginning of the regency of his wife, followed by a succession crisis and a palace coup (1662). Despite these domestic problems, the expulsion of the Dutch from Brazil (1654) and the signing of a treaty with England (also in 1654) improved Portugal's diplomatic and financial position temporarily and gave it needed protection against a naval raid on Lisbon.
Nonetheless, the overriding goal, a formal pact with France, continued to evade Portugal, whose weakness and isolation had been driven home by its virtual exclusion at the negotiations for the European settlement-of-settlements, the new realpolitik of the Peace of Westphalia (1648).
With this treaty and the end of hostilities in Catalonia in 1652, Spain was again ready to direct its efforts against Portugal, but it faced a lack of men, resources, and, especially, good military commanders.[18]
Atrocities[edit]
During the second stage, the war became a frontier confrontation characterized by attrition, often featuring local forces composed of familiar neighbors, yet this intimacy failed to temper the brutality exhibited by both sides. Soldiers and officers, many mercenaries facing payment shortages, turned to looting and desertion. The Portuguese sought retribution for grievances accumulated during sixty years of Spanish rule, whereas the Spanish viewed their adversaries not as legitimate combatants deserving of honorable treatment but as rebels.[16]
Third stage: Portuguese victory[edit]
Further information: English expedition to Portugal (1662–1668)
Frederico, Count of Mértola, who was in command of the English contingent brigade in Portugal
Following the indecisive campaigns of 1662, Spain launched a major effort to win the war. In April 1663, John of Austria the Younger, Philip IV's illegitimate son, invaded Alentejo, commanding an army of 20,000 provisioned for six weeks.[19] In May, he successfully captured Évora, sparking a surge of emotion in Lisbon and raising alarm throughout Portugal, as there was now no major barrier to impede a Spanish advance on Lisbon.[20]
The Portuguese, under António Luís de Meneses, 1st Marquess of Marialva, were bolstered by the arrival of a British brigade which numbered 3,000 in August 1662. Many were veterans of the English Civil War and the Dutch Revolt.[21] For King Charles II, this was a convenient way of getting rid of demobilized soldiers of Cromwell's New Model Army and removing them from English territory. They were led by the German soldier of fortune, Friedrich Hermann von Schönberg, Count of Mértola, The brigade, under Schomberg's leadership, proved a decisive factor in winning back Portugal's independence.[22]
They defeated the Spanish in a major engagement at Ameixial on 8 June 1663, and this forced John of Austria to abandon Évora and retreat across the border with heavy losses.
The Portuguese now had some 30,000 troops in the Alentejo-Extremadura theatre, but they could not draw the Spanish again into a major engagement until June 1665, when a new Spanish commander, the Marquis of Caracena, took over Vila Viçosa with about 23,000 men, including recruits from Germany and Italy.[23]
The Portuguese relief column under António Luís de Meneses and Schomberg met them at Montes Claros on 17 June 1665. The Portuguese infantry and artillery emplacements broke the Spanish cavalry, and the Spanish force lost over 10,000 men, including casualties and prisoners. Shortly thereafter, the Portuguese retook Vila Viçosa. These were the last major engagements of the war.
Both sides returned to skirmishing campaigns. Portugal, with the intercession of its English ally, had sought a truce, but after the decisive Portuguese victory at Montes Claros and with the signing of a Franco-Portuguese treaty in 1667, the Spanish Habsburgs finally agreed to recognize the House of Braganza as Portugal's new ruling dynasty on 13 February 1668.
Recapitulation[edit]
The five major battles of the war were:
Battle of Montijo on 26 May 1644
Battle of the Lines of Elvas on 14 January 1659
Battle of Ameixial on 8 June 1663
Battle of Castelo Rodrigo on 7 July 1664
Battle of Montes Claros on 17 June 1665
The Portuguese were victorious in almost all of these engagements, and peace was concluded, with the help of English mediation, by the Treaty of Lisbon in 1668.
Timeline[edit]
Main article: Timeline of Portuguese history
Margaret of Savoy, Vicereine of Portugal, Duchess of Mantua.
Afonso VI of Portugal's reign was managed by the Count of Castelo Melhor.
Philip III & IV of Portugal and Spain
Prince Regent Pedro, Duke of Beja, future King Pedro II of Portugal.
1640: A small group of conspirators stormed the royal palace in Lisbon and deposed the Vicereine of Portugal, Margaret of Savoy on 1 December 1640. She famously tried to calm the Portuguese people during demonstrations in the Terreiro do Paço, at the time, Lisbon's main square, but her efforts failed. The Duke of Bragança, head of the senior family among the Portuguese nobility, accepted the throne as John IV of Portugal later the same day. John's entire reign was dominated by the struggle to maintain Portuguese independence.
1641: A counter-revolution mounted by the Inquisition failed. It was quelled by Francisco de Lucena, who had its leaders executed. Miguel Luís de Menezes, 2nd Duke of Caminha, was executed for continuing to support the Habsburgs' claim to the Portuguese throne.
1641: Portugal signed alliances with France (1 June 1641) and Sweden (August 1641).
1641: Portugal and the Dutch Republic signed a 'Treaty of Offensive and Defensive Alliance', otherwise known as the Treaty of The Hague, on 12 July 1641. The treaty was not respected by either party; as a consequence, it had no effect on the Portuguese dependencies of Brazil and Angola that were under Dutch occupation.
1641: The Dutch began their occupation of São Tomé and of Ano Bom on 16 October 1641, where they remained until 6 January 1649. This was clearly a violation of the agreement made with Portugal only three months earlier.
1641: Portugal was ousted from Malacca by the Dutch.
1642: The Dutch took over all of the Portuguese Gold Coast (now Ghana).
1643: At the Battle of Rocroi (19 May 1643), in the Ardennes, the French defeated the Spanish.
1644: The Battle of Montijo near Badajoz, between the Portuguese and the Spanish, was fought on 26 May 1644.
1644: The Portuguese city of Elvas withstood a nine-day siege by Spanish troops.
1648: Portuguese troops from the colony of Brazil under Salvador Correia de Sá landed in Angola, retook Luanda, and expelled the Dutch, thereby restoring the African colony to Portugal.
1649: The Dutch were ousted from São Tomé.
1650:
The Sultan of Oman, allied with the Dutch, captured Muscat, which had been a Portuguese trading outpost on the Arabian Peninsula.
1654: The Anglo-Portuguese treaty between John IV and Oliver Cromwell was signed at Westminster. John agreed to prevent the molestation of English traders in Portugal and its possessions and to allow them to use their own bible and to bury their dead according to Protestant rites even though they were on Catholic soil.
1654: Portuguese troops from the colony of Brazil drove the Dutch out of the great plantation colonies of northeastern Brazil, re-establishing the territorial integrity of Portugal's South American holdings.
1656: Portugal lost control of Colombo in Portuguese Ceylon to the Dutch.
1656: John IV died on 6 November 1656 after a reign of fifteen years. His queen, who was born Luisa de Guzman (1613–1666), the eldest daughter of the Spanish grandee, the Duke of Medina-Sidonia, then reigned as regent for their son, Afonso VI of Portugal. She began seeking an accommodation with Spain.
1658: The Dutch took Jaffnapatam, Portugal's last colony in Ceylon.
1659: The Battle of the Lines of Elvas was fought on 14 January 1659. Portuguese troops, under the command of the marquis of Marialva, António Luís de Meneses, and Sancho Manoel de Vilhena, scored a resounding victory over the Spanish.
1659: The Spanish besieged the Portuguese town of Monção. The town fell on 7 February.
1659: The Treaty of the Pyrenees was signed on 7 November 1659, ending Spain's long war with France, and Spanish troops were free once more to suppress the Portuguese 'rebellion'. The Spaniards besieged Elvas, and they were driven off by António Luís de Meneses once again.
1660: Upon the restoration of Charles II in England, the Queen-Regent re-negotiated the treaty of 1654. Portugal was allowed to recruit soldiers and horses in England for the fight against Spain, to seek the conscription of four thousand mercenaries in Scotland and Ireland, and to charter twenty-four English ships to carry them. The expeditionary force was issued English weapons upon arrival in Portugal and guaranteed freedom of worship.
1660: The English began to dominate the trade in port wine from Portugal after a political spat with the French denied them Bordeaux wines. Brandy was added to the Portuguese wines to fortify them for the Atlantic voyage. Together with the restoration of Charles II in England, the "port connection" had an increasingly positive influence on Anglo-Portuguese relations.
1661: Bombay and Tangier were ceded to England on 23 June 1661 as a dowry for Afonso's sister, Catherine of Braganza, who had married King Charles II of England on 25 May 1661. In addition to the deeds to Bombay and Tangier, Catherine arrived in London, where she popularized the practice of drinking tea, with a dowry of two million gold pieces. Servicing this wedding debt burdened the Portuguese exchequer for the next half-century. The marriage with a Protestant monarch was deeply unpopular with those among the Portuguese nobility who favoured alliance with France. An anglophile party and a francophile party developed at the Portuguese court.
1661: English mediation induced the Netherlands to acknowledge, on 6 August 1661, Portuguese rule in Brazil, in return for uncontested control of Ceylon and eight million guilders. This agreement was formalized in the Treaty of The Hague (1661).
1662: Shortly after Afonso VI's coming-of-age, Luís de Vasconcelos e Sousa, 3rd Count of Castelo Melhor, saw an opportunity to gain power at court by befriending the mentally deficient king. He managed to convince the king that his mother, Luisa of Medina-Sidonia, was plotting to steal his throne and exile him from Portugal. As a result, Afonso asserted his right to rule and dispatched his mother to a convent. The king appointed Castelo Melhor his secret notary (escrivão da puridade), a position in which Castelo Melhor was able to exercise the functions of first minister. Because of the weakness of the king, Castelo Melhor became the virtual "dictator of Portugal".
1662: Castelo Melhor commenced the final (successful) phase of the Portuguese Acclamation War with the aid of the Count of Mértola, who brilliantly commanded the international mercenary army that had been assembled with the assistance of England.
1663: The Battle of Ameixial was fought on 8 June 1663. After they had spent nearly all spring overrunning the south of Portugal, the Spanish army, under John of Austria the Younger, took the Portuguese city of Évora. Less than three weeks later, they were soundly defeated by Sancho Manoel de Vilhena and Count of Mértola.
1663: The Dutch ousted the Portuguese from the Malabar coast, even though this was a clear violation of their 1661 treaty.
1663: The Siege of Évora occurred when the Portuguese army led by Sancho Manoel de Vilhena and by the Count of Mértola retook the city from the Spanish occupiers, with little to no casualties. The entire Spanish garrison surrendered.
1664: The Battle of Castelo Rodrigo was fought on 7 July 1664. A regional military commander, Pedro Jacques de Magalhães, defeated the Duke of Osuna.
1664: The Siege of Valencia de Alcántara results in the successful conquest of the Spanish town of Valencia de Alcántara by Portugal in July 1664.
1665: Portugal was again victorious at the Battle of Montes Claros (on 17 June 1665), in which António Luís de Meneses and Schomberg defeated the Spanish army under the Marquis of Caracena; Spain ceased hostilities, but a true peace treaty was not signed for another three years. Montes Claros is considered one of the most important battles in Portuguese history.
1666: In an attempt to establish an alliance with France, Castelo Melhor arranged for Afonso VI to marry Marie Françoise of Nemours, the daughter of the Duke of Nemours, but this marriage would not last long.
1666: The ambitious Castelo Melhor planned to prosecute the war to the extent of taking Galicia and presenting it to the Portuguese crown as a war indemnity, but he was dissuaded.
1667:
Marie Françoise petitioned for an annulment of her marriage to Afonso VI, based on the impotence of the king. The Church granted her the annulment.
1667: King Afonso VI, Castelo Melhor, and his francophile party were overthrown by the king's younger brother, Pedro, Duke of Beja, (who later ruled as Pedro II of Portugal.) Pedro first installed himself as his brother's regent and then arranged Afonso's exile to the island of Terceira in the Azores on the pretense that he was incapable of governing. Castelo Melhor fled into exile; ironically, he chose to live in England.
1667: The French alliance had been imperilled by the annulment of Afonso's marriage, but Pedro strengthened his political position by marrying his brother's estranged queen.
1668: The Treaty of Lisbon with Spain ended twenty-eight years of war. The regent of Spain, Mariana of Austria, acting in the name of her young son Charles II of Spain, finally recognized the legitimacy of the Portuguese monarch. Portugal kept all of its remaining overseas colonies, with the exception of Ceuta on the north African coast, which didn't recognize the Braganza Dynasty during the war.[24]
Results of the war[edit]
For Portugal, its restoration of independence from Spain was clearly established, and it proved that it could fend for itself, albeit with difficulty. Its victories on the battlefield had re-awakened Portuguese nationalism.
Economically, Portugal's restoration of independence freed it to pursue the course mapped out by the pioneers of commercial imperialism. During the seventeenth century, its economy depended largely upon entrepôt trade in tobacco and sugar, and the export of salt. During the eighteenth century, even though staples were not abandoned, the Portuguese economy came to be based more upon enslaved people, gold, leather, and wine. Portuguese trade, centered in the busy port of Lisbon, was most influenced by Anglo-Dutch capitalism and by the colonial economy in Brazil.[25]
Luís de Meneses, the Count of Ericeira, economic adviser to the prince regent, advocated the development of a native textile industry based on a Flemish model. Factories were established at Covilhã, in an area of central Portugal where there was easy access to flocks of sheep and clean mountain water, but they were highly unpopular with both local consumers and traditional weavers. Meanwhile, Portuguese attempts to develop a silk industry were undercut by the French, who wanted to monopolize that market.
More importantly, after 1668, Portugal increasingly cultivated intellectual ties with Western Europe, especially France and England, marking a shift away from its Iberian roots and towards cultural and political independence from Spain. Fear of Spanish invasion remained a powerful tool in reinforcing Portuguese nationalism and fueling hostility towards Spain and anything perceived as Spanish, as independence became synonymous with resistance against Castilian influence.[26]
Macau, the Portuguese colony in the Far East, remained loyal to the Portuguese monarch during the entire occupation period. Thus it was awarded the title "Cidade do Nome de Deus, Macau, Não Há Outra Mais Leal", or "City by the Name of God, Macau, There Is None More Loyal" by King John IV of Portugal in 1654.[27]
A 1645 depiction of a wyvern, symbol of Portugal, defeating a Spanish lion, in an allegory of the Portuguese victory of the war.
Staircase inside the Leal Senado Building in Macau, with a plaque in which the city's name, title and honours are inscribed.
See also[edit]
1580 Portuguese succession crisis
Monument to the Restorers
Restauradores Square
Notes[edit]
^ In Savoy, Christine Marie of France was acting as regent on behalf of her young son, Charles Emmanuel II, Duke of Savoy.
References[edit]
Citations[edit]
^ Davenport 2012, pp. 324–328.
^ Glete 2002, p. 176.
^ Pinzelli 2020, p. 151.
^ Anderson 2000, p. 131.
^ a b c Torgal 1981, pp. 69–85
^ Birmingham 2003, p. 51.
^ "Guerra da Aclamação". Infopédia. Retrieved 22 April 2024.
^ Treasure 1990, p. 337.
^ a b Riley 2014, p. 24.
^ a b Riley 2014, p. 27.
^ a b c Riley 2014, p. 31.
^ Riley 2014, p. 36.
^ under white background or varied background colors, like quarters in green and white in some Portuguese regiments
^ "Bandeiras, estandartes, e guiões – exército português (3)". Guerra da Restauração Blog de História Militar dedicado à Guerra da Restauração ou da Aclamação, 1641–1668. 20 April 2008.
^ a b Riley 2014, p. 29.
^ a b Riley 2014, p. 30.
^ Riley 2014, p. 28.
^ Riley 2014, pp. 27–28.
^ Riley 2014, p. 74.
^ Riley 2014, pp. 86–93.
^ Hardacre 1960, pp. 112–125.
^ Riley 2014, p. xix.
^ Riley 2014, pp. 134–147.
^ Ames 2000, p. 24.
^ Treasure 1990, pp. 338–339.
^ Wheeler 1978, p. 6.
^ "Step onto Senado Square and into the past: Walking tours bring Macau's Chinese, Portuguese history in focus". South China Morning Post.
Sources[edit]
Ames, Glenn Joseph (2000). Renascent Empire?: The House of Braganza and the Quest for Stability in Portuguese Monsoon Asia, ca. 1640–1683. Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press. ISBN 9053563822.
Anderson, James Maxwell (2000). The History of Portugal. Greenwood Press. ISBN 0313311064.
Birmingham, David (2003). A concise History of Portugal. Publisher. ISBN 978-0521536868.
Davenport, Frances Gardiner (2012). European Treaties Bearing on the History of the United States and Its Dependencies to 1648. Clark, New Jersey: The Lawbook Exchange, Ltd. ISBN 978-1584774228.
Glete, Jan (2002). Warfare at Sea, 1500–1650 Maritime Conflicts and the Transformation of Europe (E-book ed.). Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-1134610785.
Hardacre, Paul (September 1960). "The English Contingent in Portugal, 1662–1668". Journal of the Society for Army Historical Research. 38 (15): 112–125. JSTOR 44228921.
McMurdo, Edward (2010). The History of Portugal. Vol. III: From the Reign of D. Joao II. to the Reign of D. Joao V. Read Books Design. ISBN 978-1444695694.
Pinzelli, Eric G. L. (2020). Masters of Warfare Fifty Underrated Military Commanders from Classical Antiquity to the Cold War (E-book ed.). Pen and Sword Military. p. 151. ISBN 978-1399070157.
Riley, Jonathon (2014). The Last Ironsides: The English Expedition to Portugal, 1662–1668. Helion & Company. ISBN 978-1909982208.
Torgal, Luís Reis (1981). "A Restauração – Sua Dinâmica Sócio-política". Ideologia Política e Teoria do Estado na Restauração (in Portuguese). Vol. I. Coimbra: Biblioteca Geral da Universidade de Coimbra. hdl:10316/665. ISBN 978-9726160823.
Treasure, Geoffrey Russell Richards (1990) [1985]. The Making of Modern Europe, 1648–1780 (Reprint ed.). London: Routledge. ISBN 9780415051361. OCLC 31619242.
Wheeler, Douglas L. (1978). Republican Portugal: A Political History, 1910–1926. Madison, Wis.: University of Wisconsin Press. ISBN 978-0299074500.
External links[edit]
Guerra da Restauração
vteTopics related to the Portuguese monarchyMajor events
Battle of São Mamede
Battle of Ourique
Treaty of Zamora
Manifestis Probatum
1383–1385 Crisis
Battle of Aljubarrota
Battle of Alfarrobeira
Battle of Alcácer Quibir
Portuguese succession crisis of 1580
War of the Portuguese Succession
Iberian Union
Forty Conspirators
Portuguese Restoration War
Transfer of the Portuguese court
Liberal Revolution of 1820
Vilafrancada
April Revolt
Portuguese Civil War
31 January 1891 revolt
Municipal Library Elevator Coup
Lisbon Regicide
5 October 1910 revolution
Royalist attack on Chaves
Monarchy of the North
Royal houses
Portuguese House of Burgundy
House of Aviz
House of Habsburg
House of Braganza
House of Braganza-Saxe-Coburg and Gotha (disputed)
Royalresidences
Ajuda Palace
Belém Palace
Bemposta Palace
Buçaco Palace
Citadel of Cascais
Évora Palace
Mafra Palace
Necessidades Palace
Pena Palace
Queluz Palace
Quinta da Boa Vista
Rio de Janeiro Palace
Ramalhão Palace
Ribeira Palace
São Cristóvão Palace
São Jorge Castle
Santa Cruz Estate
Sintra National Palace
Vila Viçosa Palace
Juvarra's Project for the Royal Palace in Lisbon
Project for the Royal Palace in Campo de Ourique
Miscellaneous
Kingdom of Portugal
Kingdom of the Algarve
Kingdom of Brazil
United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves
Portuguese Monarchs
Miguelism
Sebastianism
Portuguese Empire
Portuguese Cortes
Portuguese nobility
List of titles and honours of the Portuguese Crown
Council of Portugal
Pantheon of the House of Braganza
Most Faithful Majesty
Duarte Pio, Duke of Braganza (current pretender)
Family tree of Portuguese monarchs
Portuguese Crown Jewels
Style of the Portuguese sovereign
His Most Faithful Majesty's Council
Chief of the King's Guard
Authority control databases InternationalGNDNationalUnited StatesIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portuguese_Restoration_War&oldid=1311911510"
Categories: Portuguese Restoration War17th century in Portugal17th-century conflicts17th-century military history of France17th-century military history of Spain17th-century military history of the Kingdom of EnglandDutch–Portuguese WarPortugal–Spain relationsThirty Years' WarWarfare of the early modern periodWars involving EnglandWars involving PortugalWars involving SpainWars involving the Kingdom of France (987–1792)Hidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles containing Portuguese-language textCS1: long volume valueCS1 Portuguese-language sources (pt)
This page was last edited on 17 September 2025, at 16:01 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Portuguese Restoration War
32 languages
Add topic