Sony State of Play Sept. 2025: All the news, trailers, and reveals
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Catch up on Sony's latest games showcase time to Tokyo Game Show
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
By
Michael McWhertor
Published 4 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Looks like Rockstar's getting ahead of GTA 6 role-playing
1 day ago
Baby Steps' open world will destroy you in the funniest ways possible
1 day ago
Yakuza Kiwami 3 announced, comes with entire new spinoff game
15 hours ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Insomniac Games/Sony Interactive Entertainment
Sony teed up its presence at Tokyo Game Show 2025 on Wednesday with a new State of Play showcase. The 35-minute presentation was full of updates on PlayStation 5 games like Saros and Marvel's Wolverine, as well as surprise game announcements, including a new version of Deus Ex and Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024 on PlayStation. If you couldn’t watch September's State of Play showcase live, here’s a recap of all the big game announcements, release dates, trailers, and other highlights from Sony’s latest stream.
Marvel's Wolverine
Marvel's Spider-Man developer Insomniac Games showed off, officially this time, gameplay from its Wolverine game for PlayStation 5. We see Logan both in street clothes and in his iconic yellow costume (with the mask), plenty of gore and violence, and X-Men characters like Mystique, Omega Red, and a big ol' Sentinel. Marvel's Wolverine is slated for a fall 2026 release on PS5.
Saros
Developer Housemarque gave us an extended look at gameplay from its next game, Saros — and it looks like a fresh new spin on bullet-hell third-person shooting action, in the vein of Returnal. Fans of Returnal and shoot-'em-ups like Ikaruga or Cave's brand of action games might want to watch. Saros is coming to PlayStation 5 on March 20, 2026.
Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024
Yep, former Xbox console exclusive Microsoft Flight Simulator 2024 is coming to PS5. It's landing on PlayStation on Dec. 8.
Battlefield 6
Electronic Arts, DICE, and the rest of the Battlefield studios gave PlayStation fans a look at the single-player campaign side of Battlefield 6, which is out on Oct. 10. Expect a big, explosive story to complement the frenetic multiplayer side of BF6.
Deus Ex Remastered
Aspyr is bringing us a new version of Ion Storm's cyberpunk immersive sim with Deus Ex Remastered. The re-release promises visual upgrades, modern enhancements, and quality-of-life improvements for a new generation of operatives. It's out Feb. 5, 2026.
Halloween
Illfonic's latest horror game is an adaptation of John Carpenter's Halloween, and thanks to State of Play, we got our first look at gameplay and a release date: Sept. 6, 2026.
Zero Parades - For Dead Spies
The next game from Disco Elysium studio ZA/UM got a fresh showing of gameplay at State of Play. Described as a "narrative-first espionage RPG steeped in paranoia, surrealism, and a struggle for redemption," players assume control of Hershel, a "brilliant yet unfortunate operant in a world where trust is scarce, betrayal is just around every corner, and failure is inevitable." Zero Parades - For Dead Spies is out in 2026. For a deeper look, read Polygon's Zero Parades preview.
Nioh 3
Team Ninja's newest Nioh game is joining a very busy February. A new release date trailer confirms that Nioh 3 will arrive on Feb. 6, 2026. "Embark as Tokugawa Takechiyo, the protagonist forced from the shogunate throne, as he confronts his rebellious brother Tokugawa Kunimatsu in a battle that transcends time," publisher Koei Tecmo says.
Code Vein 2
Code Vein 2 also got a release date at State of Play. Bandai Namco's action-RPG sequel arrives Jan. 30, 2026.
Crimson Desert
Crimson Desert, the open-world action-adventure game developed by Pearl Abyss, is joining a crowded Q1 2026: It's out on PlayStation 5 on March 19, 2026.
Let It Die Inferno
Let It Die: Inferno is a new a roguelite survival action game set in the silly Let It Die franchise. It's out on Dec. 3 for PS5 and Windows PC via Steam.
Chronoscript: The Endless End
A sketchy looking Metroidvania, Chronoscript: The Endless End casts players as the Editor, trapped within manuscripts hoping to "unravel the mystery and guide the 'endless story' to its finality in this exploration action-adventure game." It's coming in 2026 from Deskworks and Shueisha Games.
The Seven Deadly Sins: Origin
Free-to-play open-world RPG The Seven Deadly Sins: Origin is coming to PS5 on Jan. 28, 2026.
God of War 20th Anniversary DualSense
You want a new PlayStation 5 controller that looks like Kratos' face? Sony is happy to sell you one. The God of War 20th Anniversary Limited Edition DualSense will be available in limited quantities for $84.99 / €84.99 / £74.99 when it goes up for pre-order on Oct. 3 at 10 a.m. local time at direct.playstation.com.
News
Gaming
PlayStation
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
JakeWinterScones
JakeWinterScones
JakeWinterScones
#BV329323
Member since 2023-12-13
55
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Some over the top violence aside, Wolverine looks pretty cool. It would probably be just annoying to see some people who would continue to bash its graphics, or maybe see some praising the graphics because Insomniac "listened" by improving it from what they have seen from the leaks, which did not look too awesome for a very good and specific reason.
2025-09-24 19:28:14
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
2 days ago
This shocking Peacemaker theory reveals a devastating twist in the works
1 day ago
Baldur's Gate 3 is easier to play on your Steam Deck than ever before
1 day ago
Rambo prequel director says AI de-aging isn’t good enough for Sylvester Stallone to return
More from our brands
Video Game Release Dates 2025
40 Best Cross-Platform Games To Play Right Now, Ranked
Best Single-Player Games On Xbox Game Pass (January 2025)
Every Major Video Game Release Coming Soon For Xbox Series X|S And Xbox One
PlayStation’s Next State of Play Could Be a One-Two Punch for Major Reveals
Every Major Video Game Release Coming Soon For PS5 And PS4
PS5, PS4 Releases For The Week Of Sept, 22 To Sept. 28
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Disney is raising prices on Disney Plus, Hulu, and more (yes, again)
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.