Southern Arizona voters to pick Grijalva’s successor in U.S. House | PBS News
Full Episode
Wednesday, Sep 24
Close Menu
PBS NewsHour
Episodes
Podcasts
Newsletters
The Latest
Politics
Brooks and Capehart
Politics Monday
Supreme Court
Arts
CANVAS
Poetry
Now Read This
Nation
Supreme Court
Race Matters
Essays
Brief But Spectacular
World
Agents for Change
Economy
Making Sen$e
Paul Solman
Science
The Leading Edge
ScienceScope
Basic Research
Innovation and Invention
Health
Long-Term Care
Education
Teachers' Lounge
Student Reporting Labs
For Teachers
Newshour Classroom
About
Feedback
Funders
Support
Jobs
Close Menu
Clarity when it matters most
With federal funding gone, your monthly support powers PBS News
Donate now
Close Popup
I've already supported
PBS News
Menu
Notifications
Get news alerts from PBS News
Turn on desktop notifications?
Yes
Not now
Full Episodes
Podcasts
Newsletters
Live
By —
Sejal Govindarao, Associated Press
Sejal Govindarao, Associated Press
Leave your feedback
Share
Copy URL
https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/southern-arizona-voters-to-pick-grijalvas-successor-in-u-s-house
Email
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Tumblr
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Southern Arizona voters to pick Grijalva’s successor in U.S. House
Politics
Sep 23, 2025 9:55 AM EDT
LIVE RESULTS: Arizona 7th Congressional District Special Election
PHOENIX (AP) — Southern Arizona voters will select a successor Tuesday to the late U.S. Rep. Raúl Grijalva, a progressive stalwart who represented the state for more than two decades in Congress.
Grijalva died in March, resulting in the 7th Congressional District seat being one of three safely Democratic districts to become vacant due to lawmakers’ deaths. One has since been filled.
Another in Texas has yet to be filled, and a vacancy in a heavily Republican Tennessee district will be filled following an election in December.
Grijalva’s daughter, Adelita Grijalva, is facing off against Republican business owner Daniel Butierez, to fill the final 15 months of the late congressman’s term. Two third-party candidates also are on the ballot.
Grijalva has served on local boards, while Butierez made his political debut with an unsuccessful bid against Raúl Grijalva for the seat in 2024.
READ MORE: Wisconsin and Florida special elections provide early warning signs to Trump, Republicans
Butierez garnered more than one-third of the vote that year in the predominantly Hispanic district and expressed optimism after winning the GOP primary over the summer that he could attract more Democratic support this time.
Democrats enjoy a nearly 2-1 registration advantage over Republicans in the district, which covers parts of Tucson and a majority of the state’s border with Mexico. Most of the 7th District has been represented by Democrats since Arizona first became a state in 1912.
Grijalva has been a household name in Tucson for years. While there are benefits to name recognition, Adelita Grijalva has emphasized that she stands on her own record. The Democrat has the endorsements of fellow progressives U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.
Grijalva sailed to victory in the Democratic primary with more than 60% of the vote, defeating a slate that included a former state lawmaker and a Gen Z digital strategist. Similarly, Butierez won the GOP primary by large margins.
Immigration and border security have been part of the debate, as the Trump administration moves ahead with deporting people who are in the country illegally and reviewing the status of millions of others who hold U.S. visas for any violations.
Grijalva has said she would advocate for legislation that creates pathways to citizenship for recipients of the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and other migrants. She also supports prohibiting immigration enforcement operations at schools, churches and medical facilities.
Butierez has said immigration agents are enforcing the laws and that he supports efforts to deport those in the country illegally who entered during the Biden administration.
We're not going anywhere.
Stand up for truly independent, trusted news that you can count on!
Donate now
Left:
Sign directs voters to a polling station on Election Day in Tucson, Arizona, in 2020. File photo by Cheney Orr/ Reuters
Related
LIVE RESULTS: Adelita Grijalva wins Arizona’s 7th Congressional District special election
WATCH: Trump, Vance and top officials speak at Charlie Kirk’s memorial service in Arizona
By Jonathan J. Cooper, Eugene Garcia, Aamer Madhani, Meg Kinnard, Associated Press
Democratic win in Iowa special election breaks GOP supermajority
By Associated Press
WATCH: California legislature approves special election on new congressional map favoring Democrats
By Sophie Austin, Trân Nguyễn, Associated Press
Arizona Gov. Hobbs tours wildfire destruction along Grand Canyon’s North Rim
By Sejal Govindarao, Associated Press
Supreme Court rejects plea to block Arizona copper mine on land sacred to Apaches
By Mark Sherman, Associated Press
Democratic Sen. Gallego of Arizona reveals immigration reform and border security plan
By Rebecca Santana, Associated Press
Wisconsin and Florida special elections provide early warning signs to Trump, Republicans
By Jill Colvin, Associated Press
Arizona Rep. Raúl Grijalva dies of complications from cancer treatment at 77
By Stephen Groves, Associated Press
Go Deeper
adelita grijalva
arizona
daniel butierez
raul grijalva
vote 2025
By —
Sejal Govindarao, Associated Press
Sejal Govindarao, Associated Press
Support Provided By:
Learn more
Educate your inbox
Subscribe to Here’s the Deal, our politics
newsletter for analysis you won’t find anywhere else.
Enter your email address
Subscribe
Form error message goes here.
Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm.
Full Episode
Wednesday, Sep 24
PBS News
© 1996 - 2025 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved.
PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
Sections
The Latest
Politics
Arts
Nation
World
Economy
Science
Health
Education
About
About Us
TV Schedule
Press
Feedback
Funders
Support
Newsletters
Podcasts
Jobs
Privacy
Terms of Use
Stay Connected
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
X
TikTok
Threads
RSS
Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins
Enter your email address
Subscribe
Form error message goes here.
Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm.
Support our journalism
Support for News Hour Provided By