Tina Romero is here slay with her directorial debut Queens of the Dead
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
A queer film with BITE
A horror legend's zombie legacy continues in Queens of the Dead
By
Aimee Hart
Published 5 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Game of the Year 2025 predictions: The front-runners and challengers to come
7 days ago
Sonic Racing keeps throwing messy potshots at Mario Kart World
7 days ago
We finally know when House of the Dragon season 3 will premiere
Sep 16, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Image: IFC/YouTube
A new horror comedy featuring zombies and drag queens is on the way. Queens of the Dead releases in theaters this October, and the first trailer just arrived. The movie was directed by Tina Romero (daughter of zombie cinema icon George A. Romero), who has previously worked on TV and short films. This is Romero's feature directorial debut. Queens of the Dead is Romero's feature directorial debut, and follows a group of wild, wonderful, and wacky drag queens, club kids, and everything else in between after a zombie apocalypse breaks out during their giant warehouse party. Knowing they can't rely on anyone but each other, the group must put aside their differences and come together to fight against the brain-chomping undead. That is, if they don't kill each other first. The trailer shows off recognizable names, such as Katy O'Brian (Loves Lies Bleeding, Twisters), Jaquel Spivey (Mean Girls), Tomas Matos (Fire Island), Nina West (RuPaul's Drag Race), Jack Haven (I Saw the TV Glow), Cheyenne Jackson (American Horror Story), Dominique Jackson (Pose) and Margaret Cho (It's My Party.) With a strong cast and delightful premise, we expect to see some truly stellar acting, lots of gore, and plenty of laughs among the jump scares. The film first premiered at the Tribeca Festival this year, where it won the Audience Award for Best Narrative Feature. High praise. We always have more time for queer, campy horror in our lives. From what we can tell from the trailer, it looks like Queens of the Dead will do three things: slay in more ways than one, have plenty of bite, and keep you gagging for more. Independent Film Company and Shudder will release Queens of the Dead in theaters on Oct. 24.
Entertainment
Movies
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
Anime-inspired driving game Screamer fuses arcade racers with fighting game mechanics
5 days ago
Him director Justin Tipping explains Marlon Wayans' 'terrifying' moment on set
6 days ago
A new KPop Demon Hunters film is on the way
Sep 15, 2025
Strange Horticulture's sequel turns antiquing into puzzle gold
Most Popular
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
PlayStation's next State of Play streams this Wednesday
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
The Mandalorian movie could make up for Star Wars' biggest misfire
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
See More
Trending Now
50 years ago, Al Pacino made a perfect crime thriller that was ahead of its time
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
1:18
I went to Borderlands 4's... New York Fashion Week runway show?
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.