Dow Jones Top Markets Headlines at 3 AM ET: Stocks Slip Ahead of Fed's Rate Decision
| Fed ... | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
Global News Select
Dow Jones Top Markets Headlines at 3 AM ET: Stocks Slip Ahead of Fed's Rate Decision
| Fed ...
Dow Jones Top Markets Headlines at 3 AM ET: Stocks Slip Ahead of Fed's Rate Decision
| Fed ...
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 17, 2025, 7:15:00 AM
Stocks Slip Ahead of Fed's Rate Decision
Major indexes are trading just under record highs.
----
Fed Divisions Thrust Powell Into Uncharted Territory
Analysts are watching whether Trump-appointed Fed governors will back a larger rate cut or instead negotiate for stronger interest-rate clues.
----
U.K. Inflation Holds Steady Ahead of Bank of England Meeting
The reading means the central bank will likely leave rates as they are at its meeting this week.
----
Senate Democrats Target Miran's Dual Fed and White House Roles
Democrats are introducing a bill in the Senate that would bar central bank officials from simultaneously holding a separate presidentially appointed office.
----
Japan's Exports Struggle Under Weight of Tariffs
The negative impact of higher tariffs on Japan has become more apparent, with the country's exports staying weak in August as U.S.-bound shipments fell further.
----
The Two-Speed Economy Is Back as Low-Income Americans Give Up Gains
High-earners and older Americans are faring better than ever, while fortunes are sliding again for low-wage and young workers.
----
Bank of Canada Likely to Cut Rates as Economy, Job Market Sharply Weakens
Weak economic growth and labor-market softness are on center stage for the central bank, overtaking inflation concerns.
----
GOP Plan to Avoid Shutdown Ignores Democrats' Demands
House Republicans unveiled a spending bill that funds the government at current levels through mid-November but omits healthcare money sought by Democrats, setting the stage for a bruising fight.
----
Retail sales are strong for the third month in a row. Economy still seems to be in pretty good shape.
Retail sales rose at a brisk pace in August for the third month in a row, signaling that U.S. households continue to spend at healthy levels despite worries about lingering inflation and a softening labor market.
----
Import Prices Rose Unexpectedly in August
Import prices were 0.3% higher on month in August, U.S. data showed, in contrast to economists' expectations for a 0.2% decline.
----
Oil, Gas Investment Needed to Keep Output Steady as Field Declines Accelerate, IEA Says
The world must invest an average of$540 billion through 2050 in the upstream sector or face a reduced global production of 5.5 million barrels a day for the next decade, a new report stated.
----
Record Number of Fund Managers Say Stocks Are Overvalued, Survey Finds
The net share of fund managers who say they are overweight stocks doubles from August, according to Bank of America's monthly poll.
----
EU Must Advance Merger Policy Review, Von der Leyen Says
The comment comes as the EU Commission's competition regulator is in the midst of reworking its merger guidelines.
----
Israel Launches New Ground Offensive Seeking to Force End to Gaza War
The expanding operation comes as a U.N. commission concluded in a new report that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
September 17, 2025 03:15 ET (07:15 GMT)
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation We wrap up our coverage of the markets and the week.
Tom Lauricella Sep 20, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term The stocks of these high-quality growth companies look undervalued today.
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 19, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility