Trump adds $100,000 fee for high-skilled foreign workers in major visa overhaul : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump adds $100,000 fee for high-skilled foreign workers in major visa overhaul The president signed executive orders that would charge companies $100,000 a year to hire a worker on an H-1B visa and allow wealthy foreigners to get a visa for $1 million.
Immigration
Trump adds $100,000 fee for high-skilled foreign workers in major visa overhaul
September 19, 20257:36 PM ET
Adrian Florido
President Trump, accompanied by U.S. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick (left), speaks after signing an executive order in the Oval Office at the White House on Sept. 19, 2025. Trump signed two executive orders, establishing the "Trump Gold Card" and introducing a $100,000 fee for H-1B visas. The "Trump Gold Card" is a visa program that allows foreign nationals permanent residency and a pathway to U.S. citizenship for a $1 million investment in the United States.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
President Trump took two executive actions Friday aimed at raising billions of dollars through high visa fees for companies seeking to hire high-skilled foreign workers and for wealthy foreigners. One of the actions, an executive order, creates a new visa category for people willing to pay $1 million to enter the U.S., or whose employers are willing to pay the U.S. $2 million to sponsor them. While signing the order in the Oval Office on Friday, Trump dubbed the new visa the "Trump Gold Card." "This program will raise more than $100 billion, which we'll use for cutting taxes and paying down debt," Trump said. "They're going to spend a lot of money to come in."
Sponsor Message
A senior administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity later told reporters that the administration is also working on a so-called 'Platinum Card" to replace an existing investor visa. "Congress will have to approve it," the official said. The 'Platinum Card' will cost $5 million. It will allow foreigners to spend up to 270 days in the U.S. without being subject to U.S. taxes on non-U.S. income. The second action Trump took Friday was a proclamation that aims to implement a new $100,000 fee for high-skilled workers to enter the country through the H-1B visa program, a dramatic overhaul that the White House said is aimed at curbing abuse of the program and protecting American workers. "We need great workers. And this pretty much ensures that this is what's going to happen," Trump said. The H-1B visa program is for highly-educated, high-skilled workers like software engineers or medical professionals. American companies seeking to hire a foreigner on an H-1B visa must first attest that they haven't been able to find American workers with similar skills and that the foreigner will earn a salary similar to what an American worker would earn. Congress allows 85,000 H-1B visas to be issued through a lottery each year, and government data show that the largest number of those workers are sponsored by large tech firms like Amazon, Microsoft, and Apple.
Sponsor Message
But the Trump administration has said the program is rife with abuse, and that despite the rules many companies use H-1B visas to hire foreigners for less than what they would pay Americans. A 2020 study by the Economic Policy Institute found that most H-1B employers do pay migrant workers less than market rate salaries. During the signing ceremony on Friday, Trump and his commerce secretary, Howard Lutnick, said the $100,000 fee, due each year for each worker, will disincentivize that. "Either the person is very valuable to the company and America," Lutnick said, "or they're going to depart and the company is going to hire an American." He added that no longer will companies be able to put trainee workers on H-1Bs. "If you're going to train people you are going to train an American," Lutnick told reporters. Companies seeking to hire an H-1B worker must currently pay a $215 fee to register for the lottery, plus visa filing fees that can add up to a few thousand dollars. The H-1B program has long divided conservatives. Some, like former Trump adviser and tech mogul Elon Musk, have argued that the US does not produce enough highly skilled engineers to satisfy the tech industry's demand. Others, like the far-right pundits Steve Bannon and Laura Loomer, have criticized the program as harmful for American workers. Trump's actions come as his administration has moved to implement a series of higher fees on things like asylum applications and work permits, which are aimed at raising revenue to fund new immigration agents, detention centers, and other immigration enforcement initiatives. Clarification: This story has been updated to clarify that the two executive actions that President Trump took on Friday related to immigration were an executive order and a proclamation, not two executive orders. It has also been updated to clarify that the current fees for H-1B visas can add up to a few thousand dollars.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor