Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience job with Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research | 12845088
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Employer
Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research
Location
New Orleans, Louisiana
Salary
$61000
Closing date
21 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Health Science,
Life Science
Job Type
Postdoctoral
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience at Tulane University
A postdoctoral fellow position is available in the Department of Neurosurgery at Tulane University School of Medicine. The candidate will join the laboratory of Dr. Xiangming Zha in the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center in the Department of Neurosurgery.
The research areas include molecular signaling and neuroprotective mechanisms in neuron and/or endothelial cells, the contribution of brain acid signaling to ischemic stroke, blood brain barrier regulation, vascular cognitive impairment and dementia (VCID), and traumatic brain injury (TBI). The research will use in vitro and in vivo mouse models.
Qualifications:
1). Recent PhD or equivalent degree in neuroscience, molecular biology, physiology, or cerebral vascular biology. 2). Previous experience with rodent surgeries, including the mouse middle cerebral artery occlusion model or TBI models, relevant VCID models, transcriptome analysis and gene regulation is highly desirable. 3). Solid publication record.
The fellow will work closely with the Pl and others on the research team. We support the career progression of the fellow. We will provide guidance on career development and encourage the fellow to apply for postdoctoral fellowship as well as other career stage appropriate fundings..
Application Instructions
Interested candidates should submit an application package containing 1) CV, 2) contact information for three research references, and 3) a brief summary discussing your research interest or fit with the lab research. The package can be emailed, preferably as a single PDF file, to xzha@tulane.edu.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Postdoctoral Fellowship at Joslin Diabetes Center and Harvard Medical School
Boston, Massachusetts
National Institutes of Health postdoctoral fellowship
NIH Rocky Mountain Laboratories in Hamilton, Montana, USA
Postdoctoral Fellow in Islet Biology
Edmonton (Region), Alberta (CA)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software