Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I tried both flagships, and there's a clear winner | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I tried both flagships, and there's a clear winner
Which $1,000+ flagship phone should you buy in 2025? Here's how the specs compare between Apple and Samsung.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 4:58 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner and Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple this month announced its new iPhone 17 lineup at the Awe-Dropping Event in Cupertino, California. After years of playing it safe, the company is experimenting with the design of its phones. The iPhone 17 Pro Max sports its most noticeable (and maybe controversial) design changes in years. By contrast, its closest competitor, the Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra, retains its signature look. The two flagship phones feature versatile camera setups, plenty of power, and a slew of features. Each will suit a specific type of user. Also: Why I'm breaking the 5-year iPhone upgrade cycle - and I'm not aloneIf you're wondering which of the two Apple or Samsung phones should be your next daily driver, let me break it down for you. Here's how the new Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max compares to the Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra.SpecificationsApple iPhone 17 Pro MaxSamsung Galaxy S25 UltraDisplay6.9" AMOLED with 120Hz, 3000 nits peak6.9" QHD AMOLED 120Hz, 2600 nits peakWeight233 grams218 gramsProcessorApple A19 ProSnapdragon 8 EliteDimensions78 x 163.4 x 8.75mm77.6 x 162.8 x 8.2mmStorage256GB, 512GB, 1TB and 2TB256GB, 512GB, 1TBBatteryN/A5000 mAhCamera48MP Fusion / 48MP Ultra Wide / 48MP telephoto / 18MP front200MP wide / 50MP telephoto (5x) / 10MP telephoto (3x) / 50 MP ultrawide / 12MP frontPrice$1,199$1,299You should buy the Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max if…
Jason Hiner/ZDNET1. You record a lot of videosiPhones have been the go-to smartphone for video recording for a long time, and Apple is taking it a step further with the iPhone 17 Pro series. The new Pro models support ProRes RAW video recording capabilities, allowing filmmakers to have greater creative freedom over their recordings. You can record 4K Dolby Vision videos at up to 120 fps via the main camera and up to 60 fps on the other two sensors. Also: You can buy Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and moreApple also upgraded the front camera to 18MP with Center Stage support. It also supports "ultrastabilized videos" from the selfie shooter, which would be useful for creators around the world. If you are someone who wants a smartphone for shooting videos, an iPhone 17 Pro or iPhone 17 Pro Max is the phone to go for.2. You have MagSafe-compatible accessoriesIf you are an iPhone user, you probably have MagSafe-compatible accessories, and these will only be compatible with the new iPhones. For the unaware, MagSafe is more than just wireless charging. I have a magnetic tripod that I love using with my iPhone 16 Pro, as well as a magnetic power bank, which offers more convenience than a wired power bank. If you opt for a Galaxy S25 Ultra, none of them will work with your new phone. To keep your old MagSafe investments intact and usable, you should go with the iPhone 17 Pro Max.   3. You need 2TB of storage on your phone For all the creators out there, Apple has not only improved video recording capabilities but also provides space to store them locally on your phone. A 2TB iPhone 17 Pro Max might not impress many, but if you are a creator, the iPhone 17 Pro Max will serve you better than the Galaxy S25 Ultra, which maxes out at 1TB of storage. However, you'll need to spend $1,999 to get a 2TB variant.
Buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max View now at T-MobileYou should buy the Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra if…
Kerry Wan/ZDNET1. You want the best screen on a smartphone that we've tested so farThe Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra's display has spoiled me. It features the best screen on a smartphone currently, thanks to the anti-reflective and anti-smudge properties. When compared to my current iPhone 16 Pro, it is easier to view and read outdoors. In comparison, I always have to wipe my iPhone's screen when shooting a video or trying to navigate outdoors. There's no such issue on the Galaxy S25 Ultra, and Samsung has truly taken its smartphone screen game to the next level with its flagship this year. That said, the iPhone 17 Pro introduces a new anti-reflective display, but we've yet to test it.
2. You want a more complete AI feature setSamsung's Galaxy AI is more robust than Apple Intelligence, based on my experience with the two this year. While Apple Intelligence offers some nifty features like notification summary and writing tools, Galaxy AI is better and easier to use, thanks to its sidebar and Android customizations.Also: The Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra was nearly unusable for me - until I downloaded this one appNeed to add an email invite to the Calendar app? Swipe from the sidebar, tap on AI Select, and you have a one-tap option ready to add that event to your Calendar app. I also love Instant Slow-Mo videos at a press and hold, as well as Samsung's object eraser tool, which works better than Apple's Clean Up. The Cupertino company might improve its AI game this year but Samsung's Galaxy AI offers a more complete AI user experience as of now.3. You want the S PenSamsung has repositioned the S Pen and removed its features over the years. However, Galaxy Note fans still like jotting down quick ideas and notes on their smartphones. If you like the idea of writing on your phone's display, the Galaxy S25 Ultra is the only flagship phone to offer that experience. Remember, you no longer get features like a remote camera shutter button, but it still comes in handy at meetings.
Buy the Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra View now at SamsungWant to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
Why I'm recommending this iPhone 17 model to most people (and it's not the Pro Max)
I tested the best iPhones in 2025: Should you buy the 17, Air, or Pro Max?
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use