How I got 15GB of more Gmail storage for free - without losing a single file or email | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
How I got 15GB of more Gmail storage for free - without losing a single file or email
No matter what Google account you use, this easy trick lets you back up all your messages and media for free.
Written by
Chris Bayer, EditorEditor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 3:44 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Every new Google email account comes with 15GB of free storage -- a solid offer at no cost. However, that space can fill up fast, especially since it also covers files in Google Drive and Google Photos.If your inbox is cluttered with unread newsletters and sneaky spam, there's a way to clean house without losing important messages. With the right approach, you can preserve what matters while giving yourself a fresh start.Also: Gmail is making it a whole lot easier to clean out your inbox on AndroidThere is always the option of manually cleaning out your Gmail inbox or downloading some material to your local drive. What a pain, though, right? And, chances are, you'll only eliminate so much junk before those gigabytes start stacking up again.I should note that Google offers a way to pay for more storage by upgrading to a Google One account. The "Basic" plan costs $24 per year for 100GB. The free solution, however, lies in taking a few steps to back up your essential files and reset your data capacity.1. Back up your files, at least temporarilyIf you're going through this process, you're likely serious about retaining emails that could span years. So, as an added safety measure, it's a good practice to back up your emails on your computer or an external hard drive before transferring them back into the cloud.Also: 6 hidden Android features every user should know - and how they make life easierTo do this, go to Google Takeout and select "Google Photos" and/or "Drive" as the products you wish to export, then follow the prompts. (Once you've completed the transfer, you can delete and free up your hard disk drive (HDD) for other uses.) Be aware that this process can take a while, depending on your quantity of emails and number of gigabytes. To give you an idea, CNET's Jason Chun used Google Takeout with a test Gmail account that held about 75,000 emails, and this wholesale download took around two hours to complete.2. Prepare to transfer your Gmails to a new email accountNow that you've saved a copy of your emails, it's time to transfer them. To do this:Log into your original Gmail account and click the gear icon in the top right corner. Then click "See all settings."Select the Forwarding POP/IMAP tab. Then select the option "Enable POP for all mail." (POP stands for Post Office Protocol).You'll have several options under "When messages are accessed with POP." Select delete Gmail's copy to automatically delete the emails from your original account after the transfer.Select "Save changes."3. Create a second (archive) account and transfer your messagesAt this point, you can create your new account and transfer all your messages there: To create a new inbox-zero Gmail account, go here. This new one will serve as your archive account. Log into your new archive account, click the gear icon in the top right, and select "See all settings." Select the Accounts and Import tab at the top. Then select "Add a mail account" next to "Check mail from other accounts."In the pop-up window, enter the name of your original Gmail account, then select "Next." Select "Import emails from my other account (POP3)," and then select "Next" again. 6. Enter the password of your original Gmail account.Also: Notion Mail offers AI perks - but skips a few crucial Notion featuresNote that you might also need to whip up a temporary Google app password to sync the accounts. So, if your original Gmail account password doesn't work at this step, visit https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords to create a temporary 16-digit passcode.Simply create a name for the password, such as "Email Transfer," then hit "Create." A pop-up window with your new 16-digit passcode will display. Here, you should jot it down or take a screenshot until you can discard this password. Google will only show it to you once! 7. Once you've synced your accounts, find Port and select "995." 8. Next, you'll want to check three boxes:Always use a secure connection (SSL) when retrieving mailLabel incoming messagesArchive incoming messages (Skip the Inbox)  9. Finally, select "Add account."What's next, now that your accounts are synced?The email migration process will automatically begin after successfully connecting your new Gmail archive account to your primary account. How long this takes also depends on the volume of emails being transferred. For example, CNET's test transfer of 75,000 messages found that it took about two full days to complete the transfer of all messages and media to a new archived mail account.Once that step is complete, your original Gmail account will toss all your messages into the Trash folder, which you must empty manually. According to Chun, deleting 75,000 messages from the Trash took about an hour.Further, keep in mind that Gmail will not transfer your Drafts and Spam folders. In my opinion, this is a good thing for the latter, but do be sure you don't have any loose-end messages hanging around in your Drafts folder. You can always email them to yourself to finish later.Also: Why you need a data backup plan for your Mac or PC - before disaster strikesAt this point, there are three final steps to stop the automatic transfer process so that you can continue using your original account, starting anew at inbox zero.Login to your new account. Click the gear icon and select "See all settings."Select the Accounts and Import tab. Under "Check mail from other accounts," select "Delete" for your original account.Select "OK" when prompted to "Confirm delete mail account."Following the steps above is at least less daunting of a chore than manually sifting through countless messages and media to determine what you want to keep for eternity. Now you can enjoy the long-forgotten experience of having a clean new inbox while maintaining years' worth of older stuff -- with 15 free gigabytes to go.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This free tool installs Windows 11 on unsupported PCs - without any bloatware
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use