Luigi Mangione's state terrorism charges dismissed in UnitedHealthcare CEO's murder, judge rules - CBS New York
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
New York
|
News
Weather
Voters Decide
Sports
Video
New York Shows
Your Home Team
All News
NY News
Bronx News
Brooklyn News
Harlem News
Long Island News
Northern Suburbs
Queens News
NJ News
CT News
Investigations
Politics
Education
Transportation
Crime
Housing
Arts & Entertainment
Climate & Environment
Health & Wellness
Aging & Caregiving
First Alert Weather
Radars & Maps
CBS2 Weather Map
CBS2 Weather Watchers
First Alert Weather 101
Share Photos & Videos
All Sports
Giants
Yankees
Knicks
Rangers
Islanders
Jets
Mets
Nets
Devils
CBS Sports HQ
Odds
Latest News
CBS New York Investigates
Book Club with Mary Calvi
Class Act with Chris Wragge
#BetterTogether
Breaking The Stigma
Furry Friend Finder
Sandy
The 5:33 | Legacy of the LIRR Massacre
On The Dot with David Schechter: Wildfires & Climate Change
Climate Change: Protecting our Planet
Station Info
WCBS-TV
WLNY-TV
Contact Us
Advertise
Contests & Promotions
Galleries
Links & Numbers
Download Our App
Watch CBS News
Local News
Luigi Mangione's state terrorism charges dismissed in UnitedHealthcare CEO's murder, judge rules
By
Alice
Gainer,
Alice
Gainer
Alice Gainer
Alice Gainer joined CBS News New York as a reporter and anchor in January 2013. She covers breaking, feature and general assignment stories.
Read Full Bio
Alice
Gainer,
Christina
Fan
Christina
Fan
Christina Fan
Christina Fan joined CBS News New York as a general assignment reporter in spring of 2019.
Read Full Bio
Christina
Fan
Updated on:
September 16, 2025 / 8:06 PM EDT
/ CBS New York
Judge rules Luigi Mangione's state terrorism charges dismissed in UnitedHealthcare CEO's murder
Judge rules Luigi Mangione's state terrorism charges dismissed in UnitedHealthcare CEO's murder
02:57
The state terrorism charges against Luigi Mangione, the man accused of murdering UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, were dismissed Tuesday, as he appeared in court in New York City for a pre-trial hearing. Mangione walked into Manhattan Criminal Court, shackled and wearing tan prison clothing, shortly before 9:30 a.m. for the hearing on several pre-trial motions. Members of the press and the public packed the courtroom, while crowds of his supporters carried signs and chanted outside.
Luigi Mangione is escorted by police as he arrives for a hearing as his lawyers push to have his state murder charges dismissed in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, at Manhattan Criminal Court on Sept. 16, 2025 in New York City.
Spencer Platt / Getty Images
When he entered, he appeared to look at the rows of public in the back very briefly, then stared straight forward. As he left, he raised his eyebrows in acknowledgement -- once at the defense's first row in the gallery, and then again as he walked past the press and public. His supporters were later seen following his attorneys down the street as they left court. Luigi Mangione's terrorism charges thrown out
Luigi Mangione (R) appears with his lawyer Marc Agnifilo in court for a hearing on his state murder charges in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in Manhattan Supreme Court on September 16, 2025 in New York City.
Curtis Means-Pool / Getty Images
The 27-year-old faces both state and federal charges in the killing of Thompson, a husband and father of two, last December outside a Manhattan hotel. The 11 state charges included murder and terrorism, and the federal ones carry the possibility of the death penalty.
His lawyers have been fighting to get the state charges thrown out entirely, arguing the parallel cases amount to double jeopardy. In his written decision Tuesday, Judge Gregory Carro ruled against their request.The defense had also asked for the two terrorism charges to be dropped, arguing they don't apply. Prosecutors, however, alleged Mangione's intent was to "violently broadcast a social and political message to the public at large."The judge ruled to dismiss both terrorism charges -- murder in the first degree in furtherance of an act of terrorism and murder in the second degree as a crime of terrorism -- writing they were "legally insufficient." "There was no evidence presented of a desire to terrorize the public, inspire widespread fear, engage in a broader campaign of violence, or to conspire with organized terrorist groups," Carro wrote. "Here, the crime -- the heinous, but targeted and discrete killing of one person -- is very different from the examples of terrorism set forth in the statute."
Mangione still faces 9 other state counts
Luigi Mangione appears in court for a hearing on his state murder charges in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in Manhattan Supreme Court on Sept. 16, 2025 in New York City.
Curtis Means-Pool / Getty Images
Mangione will still face second-degree murder and eight weapons-related charges in the state case. If convicted of the top count, it carries a sentence of 25 years to life. He has pleaded not guilty."We respect the Court's decision and will proceed on the remaining nine counts, including Murder in the Second Degree," the Manhattan District Attorney's office said in a statement after the ruling. The defense also wants to suppress evidence from Mangione's backpack, including a gun and notebook, claiming it was obtained without a search warrant. Prosecutors deny the allegations and have asked the judge to force Mangione's lawyers to say whether they will pursue an insanity defense or introduce psychiatric evidence.The defense also wants statements Mangione made to law enforcement suppressed because his attorneys allege officers failed to provide Miranda warnings, and don't want non-eyewitness identification testimony at trial, meaning someone who was not a witness to an alleged crime who makes an identification from a picture or video.The judge did not rule on any of those issues Tuesday, but said hearings on each will begin on Dec. 1.
More from CBS News
4 detained after clashes with ICE in Broadview. What happens next to those arrested?
Ex-Navy sailor gets 12 years for terrorist plot to attack Naval Station Great Lakes
Man charged with attempted murder of 2 women, hate crime in West Town shooting
2 men shot by Chicago police hours apart face charges in knife assaults
Brian Thompson
Luigi Mangione
Alice
Gainer
Alice Gainer joined CBS News New York as a reporter and anchor in January 2013. She covers breaking, feature and general assignment stories.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
4 detained after clashes with ICE in Broadview. What happens next to those arrested?
Illinois leaders respond to DHS request to comply with immigration detainers
2 men shot by Chicago police hours apart face charges in knife assaults
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News New York
Meet the Team
WLNY-TV 55
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for WCBS-TV
Public File for WLNY-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
WCBS-TV EEO Report
WLNY-TV EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue