Best TV Antennas of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TV Accessories
Best TV Antennas of 2025
Get free TV by watching over-the-air channels. Here are our recommendations for the best indoor OTA TV antennas for 2025.
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Written by
Geoffrey Morrison
Article updated on July 7, 2025 at 7:00 AM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Geoffrey Morrison Contributor Geoffrey Morrison is a writer/photographer about tech and travel for CNET, The New York Times, and other web and print publications. He's also the Editor-at-Large for Wirecutter. He is the author of Budget Travel for Dummies as well as the bestselling sci-fi novels Undersea, and Undersea Atrophia. He's NIST and ISF trained, and has a degree in Audio Production from Ithaca College. He spends most of the year as a digital nomad, living and working while traveling around the world. You can follow his travels at BaldNomad.com and on his Instagram and YouTube channel.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Coverage
In some areas, the TV signal may be nonexistent, but it doesn’t cost much to find out if an indoor antennas is for you.
Cost
The sweet spot for an indoor antenna is between $20 and $40.
Form factor
Most modern antennas are flat and window-mounted, and while you can opt for a large desktop model, the reception won’t be as good.
Cable
Look for a model that allows a detachable cable for added flexibility.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
There has never been a better time to cut the cord and replace it with free TV. An over-the-air (OTA) antenna is a cheap way to complement or even replace live TV streaming services with events such as sports and the evening news. A simple indoor antenna will also let you experience the next evolution of OTA called NextGen TV, also known as ATSC 3.0, which promises 4K HDR broadcasts. If you live in an area with a good signal, you can install a TV antenna for less than a media streamer -- and with less hassle. Unlike outdoor antennas, you don't need to climb on your roof, because the best indoor models can be hung in your window or placed on the windowsill.
Our Picks
Best TV antenna overall Mohu Leaf
Jump to details
$40 at Mohu
Jump to details
Best budget TV antenna Channel Master Flatenna 35/Duo
Jump to details
$35 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best antenna for the windowsill Mohu Gateway
Jump to details
$35 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best long range TV antenna
Gesobyte Amplified HD Digital TV Antenna
Jump to details
$26.84 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best TV Antennas of 2025
What's the best overall TV antenna?
Best TV antenna overall
Best budget TV antenna
Best antenna for the windowsill
Best long range TV antenna
Factors to consider when choosing a TV antenna
Other TV antennas we tested
How we test TV antennas
TV antenna FAQs
I've tested dozens of indoor antennas from simple "bunny ears" to high-end amplified models intended to improve the reception range. Here are the best indoor antennas we've tested.What's the best overall TV antenna?Based on dozens of CNET's tests, the best indoor antenna is the Mohu Leaf, with great performance and an affordable price. You could also choose its sibling, the Mohu Gateway (which is even cheaper than the Leaf right now) or the previous winner, the Channel Master Flatenna. All three antennas provide excellent reception, simple installation and an affordable price. If you're curious about the other options or are interested in features such as signal boosters, the following are the best indoor OTA antennas right now.
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best TV antenna overall
Mohu Leaf
8.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
The Mohu Leaf performed the best of its competitors in working in both straightforward and challenging environments
The mounting system makes it easy to install
Cons
It doesn't come with a detachable cable
Why We Like It: The Mohu Leaf has undergone a recent upgrade -- a new look and some under-the-hood improvements -- and the results speak for themselves. The Leaf was the best antenna of CNET's current crop -- beating out several more expensive models.Performance: The Mohu Leaf It worked well in both of the testing environments (NYC and LA) and was able to receive the most channels overall. While the Channel Master Flatenna is cheaper, the Mohu Leaf is undoubtedly worth the $6 upsell.Overview: With ease of installation and a relatively affordable price the Mohu Leaf is the model to buy whether it's installed out of the way or displayed prominently in a window. My only quibble with the new Leaf is that it has lost the detachable coaxial cable in the process, and this means you'll need another cable and a male-to-male adaptor if you want a longer-than-12 foot run to your TV.  ... Show more
Get it now
$40 at Mohu
Specs & Configurations
Style
FlatGain amplifier
NoCable length
12 feetDetachable cable
No
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best budget TV antenna
Channel Master Flatenna 35/Duo
8.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
The Channel Master Flatenna is a solid antenna at an incredibly low price. It outperforms more expensive designs in both the number of channels it can pick up and the strength of the signal.
Cons
The antenna has a short, non-replaceable cable. There are no fasteners included in the box.
Why We Like It:The Flaantenna is great for people who simply want to test the waters, and while it wasn't the best performer overall, it's still good for the money.Notably, the Channel Master has increased from $20 to $35 in recent years, which means it's almost the same price as the leaders, and mostly loses its "budget" status.Performance: The Flatenna 35 has been upgraded with a removable cable some internal upgrades since our original test and it does perform quite well. The Flatenna worked best in line of sight of a broadcast tower, however it's still beaten by the Leaf models which work without line of sight.Overview:
If you want to find out if an indoor antenna is right for you, the Flatenna is a great option.
... Show more
Get it now
$35 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Style
FlatGain Amplifier
NoCable length
12 feetDetachable cable
Yes
Learn more
Channel Master Flatenna 35/Duo review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best antenna for the windowsill
Mohu Gateway
8.2
/10
SCORE
Pros
The antenna features an attractive design
Great for rooms without windows
Cons
It has a captive cable
Not as capable as window-mounted models
Why We Like It: Maybe you don't have a window or an out-of-the-way wall you can stick an antenna on, or you simply don't want to block your view of the outdoors, and yet you still want excellent reception. The antenna also includes mounting hooks so you can install it on a wall, though we didn't test this.Performance: This self-standing antenna takes up a little more space than the flat models, but it's still neck and neck with its Leaf stablemate on both reception quality and price. What clinched it for us was that the Leaf was better suited for on-window placement, and with its integrated stand, the Gateway was understandably too awkward to be attached to a window, and even in the sill it didn't perform as well. Likewise, the Gateway's reception was worse when sitting on an AV unit. Overview: The Motu Gateway may feature an unorthodox design but if you have nowhere else to put an antenna than on a TV stand, the Gateway is the best choice.  ... Show more
Get it now
$35 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Style
TabletopGain Amplifier
NoCable length
10 feetDetachable cable
No
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best long range TV antenna
Gesobyte Amplified HD Digital TV Antenna
8.1
/10
SCORE
Pros
The price is attractive
It has the longest cable of models tested
The amp switch offers flexibility
Cons
Its amplifier could potentially make reception worse
It has a captive cable
Why We Like It: In my years of testing antennas, the Gesobyte is still one of the only amplified models that has an attenuator switch. This feature allows a flexibility which none of the other models have. Live close to a broadcast tower? Turn the switch to Low. If you live further away, switch it to High for an added signal boost. Performance: The attenuator switch makes the Gesobyte truly versatile, and makes it easy to experiment with the best setting for your setup. It performed best with the amplifier off with line of sight, though the amp helped when used in a windowless room. It's worth noting that the Gesobyte claims a range of 650 miles, which 12x every other antenna here, but if you truly live this far from a broadcast antenna it's most likely that you will need an external antenna.Overview: The Gesobyte Amplified HD Digital TV Antenna is one of the most flexible antennas we've tested yet and it's worth trying for its budget price and longer-than-usual cable.  ... Show more
Get it now
$26.84 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Style
FlatGain Amplifier
YesCable length
18 feetDetachable cable
18 feet
Add to compareFactors to consider when choosing a TV antenna
Sarah Tew/CNETRange: Most antennas have a "range" number listed in miles, and in a perfect, interference-free environment these figures might actually be accurate. However in many cases, the reception of some channels can be spotty or nonexistent due to a number of external factors: these include faraway broadcast towers or obstructions (like hills or buildings) that break up the signal. As part of our testing, we used this DTV Reception Maps site to determine where the nearest tower was, and found it's a useful resource for planning what kind of antenna you should buy. In addition, indoor antennas are affordable enough that you can find out how strong your signal is for yourself without a big outlay. Cost: The sweet spot for an indoor antenna is between $29 and $40, and if you’re paying any more than this, it’s likely for features you probably don’t need. If you're looking to spend even more than this then consider installing an external antenna instead.Form factor: Forget the old rabbit ears of days gone past, most modern antennas are flat and optimized to receive transmissions in a single plane. Almost every indoor antenna available is designed to be stuck to a surface like a wall or a window, and there are even clear models if you’re concerned about the antenna blocking your view. If you don’t want a long cable messing with your living space you can opt for a desktop standing model, but the tradeoff is that the reception won’t be as good.Cable length: If your TV is close to the outer walls of your home then you won’t need a long run, but be aware that some of these models have short, attached cables and you may require more length. Look for a model that allows a detachable cable for added flexibility.Amplifier: In my testing I've found that, nine times out of 10, a gain amplifier doesn’t offer overall benefits, and instead tends to muddy reception while also adding extra expense. Though an amplifier can boost the signal of some stations, it can also overload ones that you already receive well. The net result is fewer channels overall. If you do opt for a model with an amp, try it with and without it connected to see which you like best. The best advice I can give is to buy the cheapest, non-amplified model you can first. If you get too few or even no channels, then adding an amplifier may not change that. An external antenna is the next best option.Indoor antennas compared undefined
Model DimensionsCable lengthReception Range (miles)Reception PatternAmplifierChannel Master Flatenna 13.5 x 10.75 x 0.75 inches12ft detachable35 milesOmni-directionalNoAntennas Direct Clearstream Eclipse 10 x 8.6 x 0.04 inches12ft detachable35 milesMulti-directionalNoGesobyte Amplified HD Digital TV Antenna n/a18ft attached650 milesn/aYesMohu Gateway 8.25 x 11.75 x 2.5 inches10ft attached40 milesMulti-DirectionalNoMohu Leaf 9.25 x 11.38 x 0.04 inches12ft attached40 milesMulti-DirectionalNoUltra Vizion HD Digital TV Antenna 17 x 6.25 x 0.06 inches16.5ft attachedn/an/aYes
Other TV antennas we tested
The Antennas Direct Clearstream Eclipse in a Manhattan window Sarah Tew/CNETAntennas Direct ClearStream Eclipse ($40): With its ankh-shaped and multidirectional reversible compact design, the ClearStream antenna is unique. This multi-directional antenna comes with sticky tabs for attaching it to your window, which is handy. If you need more signal oomph, a $20 antenna amplifier is available as well. A previous winner in this category, the Eclipse didn't perform as well as the Mohu units -- especially in our LA location.Ultra Vizion HD Digital TV Antenna ($50): The Ultra Vizion is one of the most striking antennas we've seen thanks to its Perspex construction. It is large, and while it performed well when presented with a line of sight to a broadcast antenna (NYC) it came last when tested in suburban LA.   How we test TV antennas
Top antennas testing results
PriceNo. of channels (NYC)No. of channels (LA)No. watchable test channels (out of 14) Antennas Direct Clearstream Eclipse 401047011Btfdreem Smart TV Antenna -- Amplified 298110411Channel Master Flatenna 29988611Gesobyte Amplified HD Digital TV Antenna -- Low 309211613Mohu Gateway
3510412811Mohu Leaf
3510213112Ultra Vizion HD Digital TV Antenna 441046910
We've tested dozens of antennas over the past 10 years with a view to finding the best performance and ease of installation for the least amount of money. Compared to a live TV streaming service, OTA TV does have some restrictions, namely, it is usually confined to a single television, and the broadcast signal from an OTA TV antenna won't work on phones or other devices. Thankfully, you can kick it up a notch with an OTA DVR with networking capabilities and dedicated apps. Our favorite right now is the Tablo 4th Gen.When you're buying a TV antenna the two things you desire most are: the most number of channels available, and the best reception or picture quality. In our tests, we wanted to find the antennas which were able to pull in more channels than the others, and which also delivered stronger, clearer TV signals, even on "problem" channels. Using the TiVo Edge as our test machine, we hooked up each antenna in turn and tested how many total channels we could receive in both our LA and New York locations. The Edge lists the signal strength of each channel, and while a signal strength reading of 70% usually means it's watchable we watched all of the predetermined test channels (below) to determine the signal quality. In deciding a winner, we tried to find the antenna which had the best performance with both line of sight and without.
Testing an antenna by searching for channels using the TiVo Edge Ty PendleburyWith that in mind, we tested seven different indoor antennas with prices ranging from $29 to $50 (all much less than the most basic cable TV service). Here are the seven TV antennas we looked at:Antennas Direct Clearstream: $40Btfdreem Smart TV Antenna: $29 Channel Master Flatenna: $35Gesobyte Amplified HD Digital TV Antenna: $22Mohu Gateway: $25Mohu Leaf: $40Ultra Vizion HD Digital TV Antenna: $50While most of the antennas were made by "name" manufacturers, the Gesobyte and the Btfdreem were chosen specifically because they were two of the highest-selling antennas on Amazon, though the latter is currently unavailable as of May 2025.
In my test site in Upper Manhattan, I have a direct line of sight to the broadcast tower located in the Empire State Building. Ty PendleburyMuch like real estate, how well a TV antenna works is based on location, location and location. We tested the antennas in two main places: in uptown Manhattan, New York with a line of sight to the broadcast tower six miles away, and in Reseda California, at least 10 miles from the closest tower (though no line of sight).
Depending on your own location, for instance, you might receive broadcasts from multiple antennas. In addition, hills or large buildings in the way will affect the frequency range and reception of TV channels.We situated each antenna in the same spot each time and connected it to the TiVo Edge, which gives signal strength data as well as a total channel count. We used two different metrics to determine which TV antenna performed best. The first was a raw measure of the number of channels the antenna could detect, while the second involved several predetermined "problem channels." For these, we consulted a list of channels culled from various forums, for both testing areas, and gauged how well the antennas pulled in each channel.
The TiVo Edge is a now-discontinued OTA recorder for cord-cutters. Joshua Goldman/CNETOur list of "problem" channels in Manhattan was WABC 7.1 (ABC), WNET 13.1 (PBS), WPIX 11.1 (CW -- Manhattan only) and WNJB 58.1 (PBS -- New Jersey only). In addition, we added popular channels CBS 2.1, WNBC 4 (NBC), and WNYW 5 (Fox). Meanwhile, we compiled a list of channels in LA including KCBS 2.1 (CBS), KNBC 4.1 (NBC), KTLA 5.1 (CW), KABC 7.1 (ABC), KTTV 11.1 (FOX), KCOP 13.1 (MyNetwork) and KCET 28.1 (PBS).While the outcome will vary depending on where you live and how far you are from TV towers, in our tests the best-performing models received the greatest number of popular channels as well as local channels, radio broadcasts and Spanish-language stations.Most of the TV antennas were based on the same rectangular design, but there was one important consideration: the cable. Did the antenna have a long, high-performance coaxial cable or, even better, a detachable one? You'll be sticking one of these in your window, which could be a long way from your TV, so longer is better.It's worth noting that some of these antennas -- the Btfdreem, Gesobyte and the Ultra Vizion Plus -- included gain-boosting amplifiers. Based on our experiences in several locations over the years, amplifiers can affect signal strength in wildly unpredictable ways. The Ultra Vizion wouldn't work at all with the amp attached, while the others did. The numbers printed above are the best results with or without amplification. If you can't get TV reception with an indoor antenna, a gain amp may not actually help you, and in other cases, it could make your reception worse by overloading channels that already have a strong signal.
Several antennas in our list include a powered amplifier, but use thoughtfully, as these may actually make a strong signal worse. Sarah Tew/CNET TV antenna FAQs
What’s the difference between UHF and VHF, and why does it matter?
Ever since ATSC 1.0, many broadcasts in the US have stayed on the VHF band -- switching from analog to digital in the process -- but some broadcasts, including ATSC 3.0, use the UHF band. The differences? VHF (Very High Frequency) is capable of longer ranges, while UHF (Ultra High Frequency) is shorter range but is better at dealing with obstructions. However, as all of the antennas on this list are able to pick up both UHF and VHF it's not a choice you, as a consumer, have to make -- it's up to the individual broadcaster.
Show more
Do I need an antenna for a smart TV?
You don't need an antenna to use a smart TV, but adding one to your screen will complement it very well. Every television you can buy today has an OTA tuner onboard, that is because without it it no longer qualifies as a television, and it's simply a monitor. What distinguishes a smart TV from a "normal" one is that it also has streaming onboard. You can use a smart TV, without an antenna, and stream live TV services such as YouTube TV or on-demand content from Netflix. Having an antenna means you can also watch live events such as sports for free, without a subscription, and without needing an internet connection.
Show more
Do indoor antennas really work?
Depending on where you live, an indoor antenna can work really well, or not at all. If you live in the middle of a city, it's likely you're very close to a broadcast antenna. If you live a little further out then you may not be receiving the strongest signals and checking digital TV coverage maps first may help you somewhat.Correspondingly, if you do live in a poor coverage area, with weak signals, an indoor antenna may not be for you. In addition to LA and NYC, we tested antennas at a semi-rural location in New York State's Hudson Valley and found none of the antennas worked at all -- even with the signal-boosting Channel Master Smartenna. That's why it's best to test the signal strength waters with a cheap antenna first, instead of spending a hundred bucks on something that might not work in your location.
Show more
Will my antenna work with ATSC 3.0 or NextGen TV?
ATSC 3.0, also known as NextGen TV, is the next evolution of OTA broadcasts, and it promises higher resolutions, enhanced audio and interactivity. While some NextGen TV features are still a ways off -- the service is still in the process of rolling out -- the good news is that it's designed to be backward compatible with the existing ATSC. So yes, your existing antenna will still work, although you will need an ATSC 3.0 compatible tuner or TV, and an active internet connection for any interactive or on-demand features.
Show more
How do you install an indoor antenna?
Most contemporary antennas include some form of adhesive to attach them to your wall or window. If for some reason they lack this option you could try packing tape or poster putty instead.When you install it, you will need to experiment with the placement: A wall may be better than a window, depending on the orientation of your living area. Also, if possible, keep the antenna away from magnetic metals such as security bars or the like since they can interfere with your signal strength.If you buy a model with a short, captive lead be aware that you may need to buy a male-female extension lead, and more coaxial cable, to get it to reach your equipment. For more on installing an antenna check out our complete guide and video.
Show more
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
Also written by
Geoffrey Morrison Contributor
Home Entertainment Guides
TVs
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best TV Deals
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
Streaming & TV Accessories
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
Speakers
Best Bluetooth Speaker
Best Portable Mini Bluetooth Speaker
Best Speakers
Best Wi-Fi Speaker
Best Speakerphone for Working from Home
Best Sonos Speakers
Projectors
Best Home Theater Projector
Best 4k Projector
Best Portable Projector
Best Outdoor Projector
Big TV vs Projector
Other Home Entertainment
Best Record Player
Best Home Theater System
Best Blu-ray Player
Best DVR for Cord Cutters
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.