Unique Gifts for People Who Have Everything - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Gift Guide Home
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
Shopping for someone who says they have everything they need? These gifts -- handpicked by our CNET experts -- should impress.
Article updated on Sep 4, 2025
Natalia Lusinski Contributor Natalia is a contributing writer for CNET. Her work can also be seen in places like Business Insider, Yahoo and Forbes. She spent several years living abroad, from goat-sitting in the Swiss Alps to staying with nuns at a monastery in Venice. Back in Los Angeles, she runs a popular pizza Meetup and is still on a quest to find her favorite slice.
See full bio
Desiree DeNunzio Editor Desiree DeNunzio is the gift guide editor for CNET's Commerce team. When she's not writing and editing, she's either hiking through the redwoods or curled up with a good book and a lazy dog. Expertise Desiree has been a writer and editor for the past two decades, covering everything from top-selling Amazon deals to apparel, pets and home goods. Credentials Desiree's previous work has appeared in various print and online publications including Search Engine Land, PCWorld, Wired magazine and PBS MediaShift.
See full bio
Written by Natalia Lusinski
,
Desiree DeNunzio
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
For the tech-obsessed
Projectors
Anker Nebula Mars 3 Air outdoor projector This projector not only earned our top pick for the best outdoor projector overall but also snagged a CNET Editors’ Choice award. It’s compact yet delivers great image and sound. The built-in battery lasts 2.5 hours, and your giftee can watch shows and movies from top streaming services like Netflix and Disney Plus.
$600 at Amazon
Close
Meta Ray-Bans (Gen 2) If you know someone who appreciates a good tech gadget, they’ll be a big fan of these smart glasses. CNET’s Scott Stein says the Meta Ray-Bans are practical and, oddly, transformative. He’s gotten so used to them that sometimes he’ll start talking to himself and tapping the glasses to take pictures before realizing he’s wearing his regular ones. “I suddenly miss the extra features like a phantom limb,” he says.He also loves that AI is a "whimsical bonus" with the Meta Ray-Bans. “These are glasses first and cameras/headphones second -- and pretty good ones at that.” For instance, the glasses can take photos and then analyze them with generative AI and respond back in audio. All in all, they’ll make an amazing gift.
$329 at Ray-Ban
Close
Mobile Accessories
Backbone One on-phone game controller Someone who enjoys gaming probably already has the latest Xbox or PlayStation. But they might not have the Backbone One, which will let them easily go mobile and turn their phone into a handheld gaming console. This nifty controller offers responsive analog triggers, clickable thumbsticks and tactile buttons, making it ideal for cloud-based gaming. If you prefer playing games installed directly on your phone, it handles those effortlessly too.
$100 at Amazon
Close
Oura Ring 4 For a unique wellness gift, the Oura Ring 4 fits the bill. All your giftee has to do is wear it and the ring will do the rest, from tracking their activity and fitness metrics to their sleep, which they can check in the Oura app. They can also set various health targets. “Unlike other wearable health apps, Oura doesn't just generate a stream of trends and metrics to scroll through. It tries to make meaningful observations about what's happening in your body, but without verging into medical advice territory,” CNET’s Lisa Eadicicco writes in her review of the Oura Ring 4.
$349 at Oura
Close
Dolphin Nautilus Robotic Pool Vacuum ($799) LG OLED G5 TV ($2,547)Bambu Lab A1 Combo 3D Printer ($349)For the homebody
Headphones
Plufl human dog bed What's better than getting cozy in a cocoon of comfort, surrounded by soft fabric and padding? Help your giftee get as cozy comfortable as their pup with this human-sized dog bed. It comes in a variety of colors — including beige, light gray, black and pink — and is perfect for napping or lounging in. It's so comfortable that CNET's David Watsky notes, "One problem you'll have with the Plufl is that a quick rest can turn into an hours-long nap without warning."
$299 at Amazon
Close
Lighting
Govee Floor Lamp We all have those friends or family members who like to experiment with their home lighting and smart home gadgets, and now they can even more with the Govee Floor Lamp. CNET’s James Bricknell calls it the "coolest smart lamp" out there, thanks to its low profile: “You can barely see it, just a small base and a thin line of metal. The focus is on the light rather than the structure.” Plus, you can sync it with your other smart lights to really set the mood. The lamp uses RGB LEDs to offer a wide variety of colors and it can be easily controlled by Alexa, Google Assistant or a single app. Be sure to click on the on-page coupon to score the extra discount.
$100 at Amazon
Close
S’mores Bowl If you’ve always wanted to make s’mores indoors, now’s your chance, especially with this compact S'mores Bowl. It’s a mini gel-fueled firepit that can be used indoors since the gel is odorless and smoke-free. Perfect for entertaining, no matter the weather.
$70 at Solo Stove
Close
Home
Casofu Burrito Blanket This fleece novelty blanket is big enough for the whole family, so your giftee can make a really big burrito and stay warm all winter long. This version is 71 inches, although it comes in five different sizes, from 47 to 90 inches. It’s also double-sided, which is another plus. No doubt, it’ll make a funny — yet functional — gift.
$16 at Amazon
Close
Wellness
Now bamboo essential oil diffuser Covering up to 400 square feet of space, this diffuser is perfect for those who love a spa-like scent to envelop the room, whether it's their bedroom, bathroom or office. The LED lights and bamboo make it stand apart from other diffusers on the market, which helped it make CNET's list of best essential oil diffusers. Buy a few bottles of essential oil to go with it for a great gift.
$34 at Amazon
Close
Solo Stove Bonfire 2.0 Solo Stove makes some of the best smokeless fire pits available, which is why the Solo Stove Bonfire 2.0 made CNET's list of the best fire pits for 2024. Though the original Solo models were tough to clean, CNET's David Carnoy notes that the removable ash pan in the newer 2.0 range solves this issue. These upgraded models, are available in three sizes: Ranger 2.0 (small), Bonfire 2.0 (medium) and Yukon 2.0 (large).
$330 at Solo Stove
Close
Home
Masdio smart flowerpot For those who struggle to keep a plant alive, try a smart flowerpot. It monitors your plant's condition and lets you know when it needs water or more light with cute faces on the exterior screen. A friend of mine has one and it makes me smile each time I see it. The built in AI assistant Ivy has more than 49 different expressions and she can also be connected to a smart home device, like Amazon Alexa. Note: The plant itself is not included.
$79 at Amazon
Close
Helix ErgoAlign Mattress Topper A mattress topper makes all the difference in the world in improving the quality of your sleep setup. CNET Editorial Director Katie Collins is an expert on sleep solutions and swears by this Helix mattress topper. "If you're like me and seeking a Band-Aid solution to your current mattress situation and you want hip and shoulder support, you will be happy with the Helix ErgoAlign," she writes.
$374 at Helix
Close
For the foodie
Yard & Outdoors
Ooni Koda 12 gas-powered pizza oven What do you get the serious home chef who likes to tinker in the kitchen any chance they get? Some extra bells and whistles, of course. The Ooni Koda pizza oven has a devoted following, and for good reason. It can reach up to 950 degrees, cook a 12-inch pizza in 60 seconds, and can even cook steaks, fish, vegetables, anything really. That alone makes it a culinary gadget to covet.
$399 at Ooni
$399 at Best Buy
$400 at Williams Sonoma
Close
Misc
Cuzen Matcha Maker starter kit The best gifts are the most frivolous ones, and you could argue the Cuzen Matcha Maker falls into that category. That is, unless you're shopping for someone who loves matcha drinks. Rather than buying powder in a can, they can use this gadget to grind their own matcha leaves into a fine powder, which is then automatically added to water to create a hot brew. They'll never be able to drink matcha any differently after getting this.
$299 at Amazon
Close
Misc
GrowlerWerks uKeg carbonated growler Impress the beer drinker who already has everything in your life with this high-end growler. The double insulated walls will keep their beer cold all day, while the pressure gauge maintains carbonation so it tastes like a freshly poured glass each time. Its compact size makes it easy to bring to barbecues, beaches or camping trips. It's the ultimate beer-head gift.
$178 at Amazon
Close
Small kitchen appliances
Ninja Creami An ice cream maker is something that’s cool to have (no pun intended), yet some people would never buy one for themselves, which is where you come in. CNET’s David Watsky is a fan of the Ninja Creami, as it’s not only easy to use — you can churn out a batch of ice cream in just 2 minutes — but makes gelato and sorbet too. It also made our pick for best ice cream maker. (And after trying it out, we can now see why it’s gone viral and lives up to all the hype.)
$229 at Amazon
$200 at Ninja
$205 at Best Buy
Close
Kitchen & Household Tools
Dreamfarm Fluicer If someone you know prefers fresh-squeezed lemons and limes, the Fluicer is the gift to get them. Not only will it squeeze out more juice than a typical handheld juicer, it's also easier on their wrists. CNET's David Watsky says, "For a citrus lover, the new Fluicer is a must-have kitchen tool and makes an excellent gift, too."
$19 at Amazon
Close
Fellow Ode Brew grinder Coffee enthusiasts know that buying beans whole and grinding them yourself creates the freshest, most flavorful cup of coffee possible. So gift the java nut in your life the cafe-quality Fellow Ode Brew grinder. It has 31 grind settings, allowing you to get the perfect grind for everything from cold brew to espresso. The design is also sleek and iconic, transforming the grinder from "counter clutter" to "kitchen eye candy."
$400 at Fellow
Close
Yard & Outdoors
Cuisinart butter wheel This simplifies how butter is added to everything, from slices of bread to corn on the cob. It's almost certain that your giftee doesn't have this, but it will likely soon become one of their favorite kitchen gadgets. They just place the butter wheel on a griddle and the butter will melt in no time at all, making it easy to butter nearly anything. The device is also portable, so they can take it to barbecues to make buttering foods easier.
$22 at Amazon
$23 at Walmart
Close
For the traveler
Headphones
Twelve South AirFly Pro Deluxe 2 wireless adapter The AirFly Pro Deluxe makes a great gift for the travelers in your life. With it, they can plug the wireless adapter into a 3.5mm headphone jack on a plane, train or long-distance bus. Then they just connect their AirPods (or other Bluetooth earbuds) to it and sit back, relax and enjoy their journey. The adapter also helps eliminate ambient sound, so your giftee’s listening experience will be top-notch. You can read more about the AirFly Pro Bluetooth transmitter in our review, and the Deluxe version is only a few dollars more and comes with a nice suede case and international headphone adapter.
$70 at Amazon
Close
Video Cameras
Insta360 X4 waterproof action camera This action camera is ideal for the adventurers in your life to capture their experiences. It's not only waterproof, but its top-notch image stabilization will also get them amazing 360-degree photos, videos and aerial shots that they can then edit right on their phone with the Insta360 app. In 360-degree mode, it shoots in 8K resolution, and in single-lens mode, it shoots in 4K. It also has an all-new 5nm AI chip that enables 5.7K resolution and 60 frames per second, as well as 4K resolution and 100 frames per second in slow motion. This model features a removable lens guard and 135 minutes of battery life too, which is impressive.
$425 at Walmart
$340 at Best Buy
$340 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Audible audiobooks If you know someone who enjoys reading, but doesn't always have the time to hunker down with a book, consider giving them an Audible subscription. Anyone who needs some hands-free entertainment will appreciate being able to listen to a book they've been meaning to read. A one-month gift subscription costs $15, and your recipient gets one book credit to start them off. Or you can get three months with three credits ($45), six months with six credits ($90) or 12 months with 12 credits ($150).
See at Audible
Close
Platypus Platy 2-liter water bottle This collapsible water bottle is a real space saver and is ideal for your gym-going and frequent-traveler friends. Once it's empty, you can roll it up and stash it pretty much anywhere. Plus, because it doesn't have any hard sides, it's also easier to squeeze into tight spaces when filled.
$20 at Amazon
$20 at REI
Close
Trtl Travel Pillow ($60)Amazon Kindle Colorsoft ($250)Nomatic Travel Backpack ($350)Personalized gifts
Home
Crown Awards Oscar statue This Oscar award lookalike is one of my go-to gifts and people love it. Whether you get it engraved with "Best Boss," "Best Friend," "Best Husband," you name it, your gift recipient will appreciate it. Soon, people will be saying, "And the award for Best Gift goes to…"
$17 at Amazon
Close
Mpix accordion mini photo book A variation on making someone a photo book is making someone this miniature accordion-style brag book. You can choose up to 12 photos, as well as a personalized cover design. The nice thing about these is how small they are, which makes them space-savers and portable, say, if you want to take them with you on vacation or to work. Prices start at $20.
$20 at Mpix
Close
Home
I Wrote a Book About You This is an easy, fun and thoughtful fill-in-the-blanks book about your significant other, best friend, work wife or anyone else you think would appreciate it. It includes prompts such as, "One of the very most wonderful things about having you in my life is getting to see you _____" and "If I made you a T-shirt, this is what it would say: _____."
$15 at Amazon
Close
Lego mosaic maker If you know a Lego fan — and, come on, isn't everybody one? — then you'll want to get them this mosaic maker. With it, they’ll get to see themselves in Lego-like form, all pixelated. All they do is upload an image of themselves to the Mosaic Designer app, download it and then use it as a guide as they piece together a mosaic of themselves using the 4,702 pieces in the set. In the end, they’ll have a memorable keepsake, a cool one-of-a-kind portrait of themselves. (Or they can disassemble it and make a new one.)
$80 at Lego
Close
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life
By
Jennifer Krazit
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Gifts Available on Amazon for 2025: From $10 to $250
By
James Bricknell
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.