CDC vaccine panel opens Day 2 with a reversal and a surprise : Shots - Health News : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
CDC vaccine panel opens Day 2 with a reversal and a surprise : Shots - Health News RFK Jr.'s reshaped ACIP vaccine panel re-did a vote from yesterday on the MMRV vaccine and scrapped plans for another vote on the hepatitis B birth dose.
Shots
Health News From NPR
Your Health Treatments & Tests Health Inc. Policy-ish Public Health
Twitter
Shots - Health News
'We are rookies': Day 2 of CDC vaccine meeting opens with a reversal and a surprise
Updated September 20, 20253:11 PM ET
Originally published September 19, 202510:48 AM ET
By
Will Stone
,
Selena Simmons-Duffin
Martin Kulldorff (right) speaks with Robert Malone during a meeting of the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices on September 18, 2025 in Chamblee, Ga.
Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Elijah Nouvelage/Getty Images
In a surprise move on Friday morning, a panel of vaccine advisors to the federal government backed off from a proposed change to the vaccine schedule that would have scrapped the current recommendation that all children receive the hepatitis B shot at birth. It also reversed a vote it took yesterday on coverage for a shot known as the MMRV — measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox (or varicella). Yesterday, the panel said the Vaccines for Children program could cover the combined shot if parents want it — Friday they voted that it shouldn't. The MMRV shot is no longer recommended to be given, and it will not be paid for by government insurance.
Sponsor Message
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, or ACIP, had spent much of Thursday debating the rationale for giving newborns the hepatitis B vaccine at birth — but then the committee pushed off the vote until Friday. Instead, it proceeded with a separate vote that removed the MMRV shot for children under age 4 from the vaccine schedule. "We are rookies," chair Martin Kulldorff said in opening the second day of the meeting. "With one exception, this was either our first ACIP meeting or our second." The ACIP panel crafts recommendations on vaccine policy for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. RFK Jr.'s influence Earlier this year, Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. fired the existing panel, installed during the Biden administration, and replaced them with his own handpicked roster, including five members he added this week. Some of those he chose have a history of being critical of vaccines. Kennedy's moves to reshape vaccine policy in the U.S. hinge in part on ACIP's recommendations. Kennedy has a long-running campaign to question the safety of many vaccines. Since being confirmed he's limited access to the COVID vaccines, ditched millions of dollars in funding for mRNA vaccine research, and fired many career scientists at CDC, including its Senate-confirmed director, Susan Monarez.
Public Health
Ousted CDC director testifies she was fired for resisting pressure from RFK Jr.
Though the ACIP panel backed off changing its recommendation for the birth dose of the hepatitis B vaccine, its actions have led the public to question a shot that has been in use since 1991. It has been a success, Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., noted this week. "We have decreased from 20,000 kids a year getting hepatitis B to 20 kids a year. That's exponential decline," Cassidy, who is a liver doctor, told reporters on Wednesday. On Thursday, ACIP chair Kulldorff said the panel is setting up two new working groups: one on vaccines recommended during pregnancy and another on the timing of when shots are given on the vaccine schedule. That action indicates that Kennedy's ACIP will continue to question well-established vaccine practices.
Sponsor Message
Confusion dominates meeting The two-day ACIP meeting, which is held at CDC headquarters in Atlanta and is expected to continue until late afternoon Friday, has been marked by confusion. As he opened it Friday morning, Kulldorff explained that the members' lack of experience led them to need to redo a vote from the previous day because the wording had been confusing.
The outcome of that re-do was to change the insurance coverage of the MMRV vaccine for low-income children. On Thursday, the panel ended with a split vote: MMRV shots were not recommended, but they would be paid for by the government. Friday's re-do vote made it all align — not recommended, not allowed to be paid for.
Then came hepatitis B. Although some on the committee seemed enthusiastic about pushing the first dose recommendation for hepatitis B from birth to 1 month of age, after some discussion, there was a revolt against tackling the issue at all. "I move to postpone the question indefinitely," Dr. Robert Malone, an ACIP member and close associate of Kennedy, said. "I believe that there's enough ambiguity here and enough remaining discussion about safety, effectiveness and timing that I believe that a vote today is premature."
Public Health
Concerned about federal vaccine policies, states are crafting their own
That seemed to take Kulldorff by surprise. The committee voted 11 to 1 to table action on the birth dose of hepatitis B vaccine, with Kulldorff as the lone dissent. Medical experts participating in the meeting as liaisons representing major medical groups seemed relieved by the decision to table the question.
ACIP Chair Dr. Martin Kulldorff, pictured at his first ACIP meeting in June 2025.
Ben Hendren/Bloomberg via Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Ben Hendren/Bloomberg via Getty Images
Many had voiced their opposition to overhauling the recommendations, pointing to data showing the current policy had helped dramatically reduce cases of hepatitis B. The proposed changes also ran counter to hours of data presented by the CDC's own scientists supporting the safety and efficacy of offering the shot right after a baby is born.
Sponsor Message
"It is very easy to get distracted by one study that says this or one study that does say that," noted Dr. Amy Middleman, representing the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine. "There's always some risk — there's a risk to walking across the street. The committee's scientific challenge is to determine whether the benefits outweigh the risks." She added that she hoped the panel would use scientific tools like grading evidence to evaluate these questions going forward. COVID shots up next for scrutiny The panel's votes still require final approval from the acting CDC Director Jim O'Neill. He was installed by Kennedy after the senate-confirmed director, Susan Monarez, was ousted in part for refusing to commit to adopting ACIP's recommendations before she'd seen evidence, she testified to the Senate earlier this week. Later on Friday, the panel will vote on recommendations on who should be eligible for the latest COVID-19 vaccines.
Public Health
Public health experts dismayed by RFK Jr.'s defunding of mRNA vaccine research
Children's Health Defense, the anti-vaccine group, founded by Kennedy before he became health secretary, has long targeted the hepatitis B vaccine recommendation, claiming the risk of illness is small for most babies and the vaccine can be harmful. Tensions between the committee and the medical establishment have surfaced repeatedly throughout the two-day gathering. On Thursday, Dr. Jason Goldman, president of the American College of Physicians, urged ACIP not to change the recommendations on the MMRV shot and criticized the broader process, saying they've sidelined subject matter experts and clinicians. He also noted that representatives from medical groups have been removed from ACIP workgroups, though they are still able to comment during the public meetings.
Correction Sept. 20, 2025
A previous version of this story misidentified Sen. Bill Cassidy as a Democrat. He is a Republican.
ACIP
CDC
hepatitis B
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor