Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions next year — says it's no longer compatible with core client features, only 0.01% of players actually used it | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Linux
Steam and Linux gaming is safe: Fedora will not drop 32-bit support after all
ChromeOS
Google to kill Steam for Chromebook beta in 2026
Windows
Windows 7 runs natively on the Steam Deck
GPUs
Nvidia confirms end of Game Ready driver support for Maxwell and Pascal GPUs
RAM
32GB of RAM on track to become the new majority for gamers
Windows
Windows 11 SE support ends October 2026
CPUs
Steam gaming finally comes to RISC-V
GPU Drivers
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Windows
Microsoft says it still has 1.4 billion monthly active users (Updated)
Windows
Microsoft no longer permits local Windows 10 accounts if you want Consumer Extended Security Updates
PC Gaming
Microsoft brings native Xbox app gaming to Windows on Arm PCs
Video Games
Battlefield 6's Javelin anti-cheat Secure Boot requirement could kill its Steam Deck support
PC Gaming
Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam
PC Gaming
Steam's new Performance Overlay is more accurate than Task Manager, says Valve
Windows
California man sues Microsoft for discontinuing Windows 10
Video Games
PC Gaming
Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions next year — says it's no longer compatible with core client features, only 0.01% of players actually used it
News
By
Hassam Nasir
published
18 September 2025
Upgrade to 64-bit Windows to keep playing.
Comments (7)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Future)
Valve is dropping support for Steam running on 32-bit versions of Windows, starting January 1, 2026. Steam has been available on Windows for more than two decades and, therefore, was built with 32-bit systems in mind. Today, every modern computer is 64-bit, with compatibility layers built in to support older 32-bit apps. So, even though 32-bit apps have carried forward, there's really no place for 32-bit operating systems anymore — which is why Valve is axing support for them.It's important to understand the distinction between 32-bit apps and operating systems. Steam itself is 32-bit, partly because it's from that era, but mostly because it doesn't need to be updated to a 64-bit instruction set, given its lightweight nature. A lot of games on Steam are also 32-bit. None of that will be affected by the sunsetting of 32-bit Windows support, since it's only support for the operating system itself that's being phased out. Windows 10 32-bit is the only version Steam currently supports anyways, and Valve says just 0.01% of players are still using it today.
What once was. (Image credit: Getty Images)Windows 11 is exclusively 64-bit, on the other hand, and now holds more than 60% of the OS share, according to Steam's August 2025 Hardware Survey. Valve has made it clear that 32-bit Windows is no longer compatible with drivers and libraries required for the core features of the Steam client, rendering continued support for it unfeasible.
You may like
Steam and Linux gaming is safe: Fedora will not drop 32-bit support after all
Google to kill Steam for Chromebook beta in 2026
Windows 7 runs natively on the Steam Deck
Come January 1st, the client itself will still work for a while, but will stop receiving security updates, and Valve won't entertain support requests for it. The company advises gamers to upgrade to 64-bit Windows to keep receiving timely updates and assistance. This move somewhat aligns with Microsoft's own plans for Windows 10, which will completely lose official support next month. Steam should still continue to run on 64-bit versions of Windows 10, however, which makes up 35% of all Steam users right now.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Steam
See all comments (7)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
Read more
Steam and Linux gaming is safe: Fedora will not drop 32-bit support after all
Google to kill Steam for Chromebook beta in 2026
Windows 7 runs natively on the Steam Deck
Nvidia confirms end of Game Ready driver support for Maxwell and Pascal GPUs
32GB of RAM on track to become the new majority for gamers
Windows 11 SE support ends October 2026
Latest in PC Gaming
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam
GPU sales skyrocketed 27% last quarter
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
Gearbox CEO channels inner Claptrap, offers himself up as personal tech support over rampant Borderlands 4 PC performance issues
Official Borderlands 4 GPU setting recommendations peg 4K performance with the RTX 5090 at 60 FPS, with DLSS and frame generation enabled
Latest in News
HighPoint's adapter enables GPUDirect storage — up to 64 GB/s from drive to GPU, bypassing the CPU
Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
7 Comments
Comment from the forums
ekio
... it's not like everybody screamed for _years_ they needed to make it 64bit...
Even in the Linux community, this is an issue, because many have to keep 32bit libs in their system solely for Steam support...
Edit: oh they keep the client as 32 bit, while forcing install on 64bit system. Valve is seriously creating annoying fragmentation because they are incompetent at modernizing their main software. Steam itself is a garbage mix of modern-ish parts and ancient bits, instead of being modernized on all fronts, it's really annoying having to deal with such a rich yet lazy company.
Just compile steam in 64 bit and cleanup the mess.
Reply
logainofhades
Not sure why anyone would still be on 32 bit OS, for gaming, unless they are playing something super old that simply won't work in a 64 bit environment. We've had 64 bit capable chips for over 20yrs now.
Reply
hotaru251
"core client features"
its a glorified chrome browser <_<
Reply
Stomx
Linux would literally exterminate entire Windows long ago if its numerous minuscule distros were exe compatible, user friendly and not fighting with each other like American indians in past history. The result is well known.
Reply
stonecarver
I'm not cheering to keep 32 bit of OS Steam but kind of interesting your Steam library of games is not in Program Files AKA 64 bit but in Program Files (x86) that is 32 bit.
Reply
hotaru251
stonecarver said:I'm not cheering to keep 32 bit of OS Steamhonestly I wish industry as a whole would rip bandage off right now and just deprecate it.
Its an anchor that IS going to need cut off eventually to make x86 grow to compete w/ the future of ARM and RISC.
primary issue being as long as corpo keep supporting it even a bit it'll never get dropped fully which is issue.
Cut it off dead stop. Apple has shown that translation layers can simulate its function needed well enough...and if you want actual support the opensource community would step in.
Itanium WAS the correct choice forward even if it as a product failed.
Reply
Joomsy
Stomx said:Linux would literally exterminate entire Windows long ago if its numerous minuscule distros were exe compatible, user friendly and not fighting with each other like American indians in past history. The result is well known.I don't want it to exterminate Windows, or even become more user friendly than it already is. I despise the "year of the Linux desktop" meme. We already have too many Window users coming over, and whining "well why can't it be thiiiiis waaaay!" We need a dumping ground for these types who refuse to educate themselves, and demand that Linux change itself in order to pander to them. That's not why it exists, and I don't want this entitlement in the ecosystem. You can either learn how to use WINE, and how to configure the system like the rest of us did, or stay with Windows. Simple as that.
Reply
View All 7 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.