Global Talent Recruitment-Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University job with Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University | 12840792
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Global Talent Recruitment-Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Employer
Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Location
Xi'an, Shaanxi (CN)
Salary
Competitive Salary
Closing date
22 Oct 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Clinical,
Computing,
Engineering,
Health Science,
Life Science
Job Type
Bioinformatician,
Postdoctoral,
Principal Investigator,
Professor,
Researcher
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Hospital
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Global Talent Recruitment -Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
About Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
(website: https://www.dentalxjtu.com)
Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University traces its origins to the Dental Specialty Clinic of the National Northwest Medical College Affiliated Hospital, established in 1950. In 1985, it was officially approved as the Affiliated Stomatological Hospital of Xi’an Medical College and later renamed "Xi’an Medical University School of Stomatology" in the same year. The School of Stomatology was founded in 1991. Following the merger of Xi’an Jiaotong University and Xi’an Medical University in 2000, the institution was renamed "Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University," and in 2012, it adopted the additional name "College of Stomatology." After decades of development, it has become the only National Health Commission-affiliated tertiary Grade-A stomatological hospital in Northwest China, integrating medical services, education, research, and preventive care.
The hospital boasts a comprehensive range of disciplines and was among the first in China to offer a five-year undergraduate program in stomatology. It currently hosts:
Stomatology Postdoctoral Research Stations
Academic Stomatology PHD-Awarding Institution
Professional Stomatology PHD-Awarding Institution
Interdisciplinary Oral Biomedicine PHD-Awarding Institution
Stomatology Master-Awarding Institution (first-level discipline)
The hospital is home to numerous national and provincial platforms, including:
National Regional (Northwest) Medical Center for Stomatology (Construction Unit)
National Drug Clinical Trial Institution
National Standardized Training Base for Stomatology Residents
National Standardized Training Base for Specialist Physicians (Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery)
National Continuing Medical Education Base (NHC)
National Licensing Examination Center for Stomatology Practitioners (Skill Test & Examiner Training)
Northwest Regional Training Center for Stomatology Educators
Shaanxi’s First Aesthetic Surgery & Aesthetic Dentistry Training Base
Shaanxi Clinical Research Center for Dental and Jaw Diseases
Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Craniomaxillofacial Precision Medicine
Shaanxi Provincial Committee for Oral Disease Prevention and Control
Member of the National Stomatology Center’s Oral Mucosal Disease Alliance
With a global vision, the hospital has established extensive academic exchanges and collaborations with institutions in the United States, Germany, Japan, Norway, Canada, Thailand, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. In 2019, it became the first Chinese university to receive "unconditional" accreditation from the Thai Dental Council. It has also initiated substantive partnerships with eight leading international institutions, including the University of Maryland (USA), University of Alberta (Canada), University of British Columbia (Canada), and the University of Hong Kong, and is actively advancing collaborations with top-50 global dental schools. Plans are underway to establish an "International School of Stomatology" in partnership with world-renowned institutions.
Recruitment Fields
We welcome applicants in, but not limited to, the following areas:
Stomatology & related interdisciplinary fields: Biomaterials, Chemical polymer, Microbiology, Immunology, Bone Metabolism, Pharmaceutics
Intelligent Medical Engineering
Medical-Engineering Cross
Recruitment conditions and treatment
Leading Talent
A. Basic Requirements
Correct political orientation, consciously study and implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, support the leadership of the Communist Party of China, and implement the Party's education policy;
Doctoral degree, associate senior or above, experience of having presided over the National Natural Science Foundation of China project or provincial key projects, conditions that can qualify for master's degree supervisor, and generally not more than 45 years old;
Integrity, innovation, team spirit and sense of enterprise, abide by the medical ethics, teacher ethics code of conduct and academic ethics, no adverse records;
Physical and mental health, able to undertake the work for which they have been appointed, with excellent overall quality and good development potential.
B. Remuneration & Benefits
The employment period, key objectives, and performance-based compensation will be determined through individualized discussions based on the candidate’s qualifications.
During the employment term, the hospital may provide transitional housing or a rental subsidy.
The appointee will enjoy standard social insurance and housing provident fund in accordance with national and institutional policies.
Children of the appointee will qualify for the hospital’s employee benefit program for school enrollment.
For candidates meeting Shaanxi Province/Xi’an City’s talent classification criteria, the hospital will assist in processing the recognition formalities to secure eligible benefits.
The hospital will prioritize resource allocation for the appointee’s research team establishment and postgraduate recruitment. The host department will provide necessary operational facilities.
Excellent Young Scholar (Overseas)
A. Basic Requirements
Ph.D. degree, Age ≤ 40;
Research focus: Natural Sciences, Engineering, etc;
Minimum 36 months of consecutive overseas research experience (post-Ph.D.) at universities, research institutes, or corporate R&D centers;
Proven achievements recognized by peers, with potential to become a leading scholar or distinguished talent;
Not yet employed full-time in China, or returned to China after January 1, 2024;
Must resign from overseas position and commit to full-time work in China for ≥3 years.
B. Remuneration & Benefits
Successful candidates will be granted Public Institution Staffing and appointed as Professor and Doctoral Supervisor, with priority allocation of postgraduate (Master's and PhD) enrollment quotas and unrestricted recruitment of postdoctoral researchers.
The hospital provides highly competitive additional research funding.
Competitive base annual salary + one-time relocation allowance + social security and housing provident fund + Hospital performance-based bonuses + research and social service income, etc.
Directly qualified as the head of the hospital's scientific research and innovation team, with prioritized personnel selection and recruitment authority, along with comprehensive support for team formation and development.
Access to state-of-the-art office and laboratory spaces, equipment, and research facilities.
Successful candidates are directly eligible for the Shaanxi Sanqin Elite Card, granting privileges in: Transportation, residency, education, healthcare, housing, immigration/customs, foreign affairs, tourism, and financial services.
Guaranteed admission for children to Xi'an Jiaotong University's affiliated K-12 schools. Priority access to medical services for the appointee.
Young Top Talents
It is categorized into three types of positions: Basic Research Position (for outstanding young talents engaged in fundamental research and original innovation)/ Type A Position/ Type B Position.
A. Basic Requirements
Correct political orientation, consciously study and implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, support the leadership of the Communist Party of China, and implement the Party's education policy. Patriotic dedication, honesty and integrity, respect for science, rigorous scholarship, pioneering spirit, and commitment to innovation, while adhering to professional ethics and academic integrity.
Doctoral degree, physical and mental health, Age limits generally apply as follows: Basic research position: ≤ 38 years old, Type A Position: ≤ 40 years old, Type B Position: ≤ 36 years old.
Must demonstrate broad academic perspective and innovative thinking, recognized by peers in the field. Basic research & Type A applicants: Should have exceptional achievements in their discipline, ranking at the top tier among peers, with clear potential to become academic leaders or field pioneers. Type B applicants: Should exhibit rising prominence in their field, with strong academic performance relative to peers and clear potential for future growth.
B. Remuneration & Benefits
Selected candidates will receive a highly competitive base salary.
Selected candidates will be provided with a competitive relocation allowance.
Selected candidates will be granted competitive research funding support.
Selected candidates will be eligible for children’s education policy, as well as social insurance and housing provident fund in accordance with national regulations.
Basic research and Type A positions: Full Professor, Type B positions: Associate Professor (Special-Term Research Professor). All appointed faculty will qualify as graduate advisors (both Master’s and PhD levels) and receive priority in graduate student recruitment quotas.
Additional benefits include research performance bonuses and income from external professional services.
Postdoctoral Fellow in Oral Medicine
A. Basic Requirements
Correct political orientation, physical and mental health, Adherence to medical ethics, teaching conduct norms, and academic integrity.
Ph.D. degree in Medicine or a related discipline, Age ≤ 32 years old (exceptionally outstanding candidates may be considered up to 35 years old).
Strong drive for innovation and interdisciplinary awareness, Dedicated to scientific research with the ability to integrate into and collaborate effectively within a team, Research direction should contribute to the advancement of Oral Medicine.
Candidates must have demonstrated outstanding research achievements in relevant fields, meeting at least one of the following publication criteria:
Type A: Two or more JCR Q1 SCI research papers as first author (or co-first author) or corresponding author (or last corresponding author) within the past four years, including: At least one paper with an Impact Factor (IF) ≥ 10, OR One paper in the Journal of Dental Research (JDR).
Type B: One JCR Q1 SCI research paper (IF ≥ 5) as first/co-first or corresponding/last corresponding author within the past four years, OR Two or more JCR Q1/Q2 SCI research papers (with a combined IF ≥ 6) in the same authorship roles.
B. Remuneration & Benefits
Annual salary system.
Hired as Assistant Researcher.
Children’s school enrollment policies (for hospital staff), orther benefits including:Meal allowances/Annual health checkups/ Summer heat relief allowance/ Winter heating allowance/ Labor union welfare benefits.
Social insurance and housing provident fund provided in accordance with national regulations.
Performance-based bonuses aligned with hospital staff’s teaching/research achievements.
Postdoctoral Fellow in Medical-Engineering Integration
A. Basic Requirements
Correct political orientation, consciously study and implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, support the leadership of the Communist Party of China, and implement the Party's education policy. Demonstrate patriotism and abide by laws and regulations.Maintain excellent moral character and professional ethics. Possess innovative capabilities, Exhibit strong teamwork spirit, Maintain proactive and enterprising attitude. Strictly adhere to teaching ethics and conduct norms, Comply with academic integrity and ethical standards.
Doctoral degree(typically obtained within the last 3 years)，Age≤ 32 years old, physical and mental health.
Able to work full-time in the interdisciplinary research team.This recruitment batch includes 18 interdisciplinary teams based at our hospital, integrating oral medicine with engineering and basic sciences. Detailed information about each team and their research fields is provided in the table below.
No.
Team Name
Research Fields/Requirements
1
Chronic Disease Biomechanics & Mechanomedicine Team
Biomechanics research with medical research background
2
Precision Analysis of Oral Medications Team
Pharmaceutical analysis, oral medicine, chemistry, materials science & engineering
3
Biomaterials & Medical Devices for Oral Bone/Soft Tissue Repair Team
Materials, chemistry, biomedical science, mechanical engineering
4
Biomedical Polymer Hydrogels Team
Polymer chemistry/physics, organic chemistry, biomaterials, medicine
5
Polymeric Nanocarriers for Radio-Immunotherapy of Tumors Team
Molecular chemistry/physics, organic chemistry, biomaterials, medicine
6
Plasma Clinical Applications Research Team
Plasma therapy device development, plasma biological mechanisms & medical applications, bioengineering, cell death mechanisms, clinical research, medical statistics
7
3D Printing Dental Materials Team
Metal/polymer 3D printing & medical applications, oral biomedicine, dentistry
8
Design & Application of High-Performance Biomedical Polyurethane Materials Team
Polymer chemistry/physics, organic chemistry, biomaterials, medicine
9
Mitochondria-Targeted Therapy Team
Biology, pharmacology, clinical medicine, dentistry
10
Bone Metabolic Diseases Mechanisms & Intervention Team
Biology, bioinformatics, basic/clinical medicine, public health, computer science, biomedical engineering
11
Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Big Data Knowledge Engineering
Artificial intelligence, medical image analysis
12
Digital Oral Information Modeling & Applications Team
Digital modeling & simulation, artificial intelligence
13
Precision Medicine Through Disease Multi-Omics Team
Biology, bioinformatics, basic/clinical medicine, public health, computer science, biomedical engineering
14
Medical Image Computing Team
AI, computer science, automation, dentistry, ultrasound medicine, radiology, biomedical engineering, image processing
15
3D Printing of Multifunctional Orthopedic Implants Team
Mechanical engineering, medicine, biology, information science, instrumentation
16
Microbiome & Oral/Systemic Diseases Mechanisms Team
Dentistry, microbiology, immunology, biochemistry, cell biology, molecular biology, bioinformatics
17
Biomimetic Biomaterials & Periodontal Tissue Regeneration Team
Biomaterials, stem cell biology, tissue engineering
18
Electromechanical Coupling in Oral & Maxillofacial Tissue Remodeling Team
Biomechanics, electromagnetic sensing materials, mechanisms & applications
B. Remuneration & Benefits
Annual salary system.
Social insurance and housing provident fund provided in accordance with national regulations.
Guaranteed admission for children to Xi'an Jiaotong University's affiliated K-12 schools.
How to Apply
Interested applicants should submit their CV/resume to the following email address: kqyyrsk@mail.xjtu.edu.cn. The submitted CV/resume must include the following details:
Personal Information (e.g., age, gender, place of origin, etc.)
Contact Information (email, phone number, etc.)
Educational & Professional Background (academic qualifications, work experience, etc.)
Key Academic Achievements: Published research papers(Impact Factor), Involvement in scientific research projects, Awards and honors received.
Please ensure all information is accurate and complete. Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted for further evaluation.
Contacts:
WANG Liping/ MA Huixing
Phone: +86 29 87215675
Address: No.98 Xi Wu Road, Xi’an, Shaanxi, China (Exit C, Beidajie Metro Station)
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Global Talent Recruitment-Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Hangzhou, China
Global Talent Recruitment of Shanghai University in 2025
Shanghai (CN)
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Shanghai, China
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software