10 Best Cooling Mattress Toppers of 2025 -- Tested by CNET - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Bed Accessories
11 Best Cooling Mattress Toppers of 2025
In these hot summer months, a cooling mattress topper can help you sleep better, especially if you're a hot sleeper. Here are the top picks from CNET’s experts.
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
Taylor Leamey
June 18, 2025
7:51 a.m. PT 17 min read
Saatva Cooling Graphite Mattress Topper Best overall cooling mattress topper
$295 at Saatva
Nolah Mattress Topper Best long-lasting mattress topper
$299 at Nolah
Tempur Adapt + Cooling Topper Best cooling mattress topper for back pain
$429 at Tempurpedic
Nest Bedding Cooling Topper Best cooling mattress topper for side sleepers
$269 at Nest Bedding
PlushBeds 100% Natural Talalay Latex Topper Best hypoallergenic cooling mattress topper
$445 at PlushBeds
Brooklinen Down Alternative Topper Best affordable cooling mattress topper
$159 at Brooklinen
Nature's Sleep Mattress Topper Best cooling memory foam mattress topper
$230 at Nature's Sleep
GhostBed Memory Foam Topper Most stylish cooling mattress topper
$330 at Amazon
Cozy Earth Mattress Pad Best temperature-regulating mattress pad
$370 at Cozy Earth
Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Mattress Protector Best cooling mattress protector
$129 at Brooklyn Bedding
Cool Flash Pad Cooling Body Pad Best cooling mattress pad for hot flashes
$85 at Amazon
Show more (6 items)
Table of Contents
11 Best Cooling Mattress Toppers of 2025
What is the best overall cooling mattress topper?
Best cooling mattress toppers and pads for 2025
Best Cooling Mattress Toppers of 2025 compared
How we test the best cooling mattress toppers
What to consider when shopping for the best cooling mattress topper
Other mattress toppers we've tested
What's the difference between a cooling pad, cooling protector and cooling topper?
Other cooling sleeping products
Best cooling mattress topper FAQ
Summer is here, and it brings the need for cooler sleeping. Nobody likes sweaty pillows, damp sheets and restless nights. A recent CNET survey found that six in 10 US adults are willing to spend over $1,000 a year on better sleep, and a cooling mattress topper may be the smarter way to spend that than getting a cooling mattress.There are tons of Reddit threads about sleeping cooler, and our expert-tested picks align with many of the top recommendations from fellow hot sleepers. Relying on years of experience testing 300 mattresses and dozens of mattress toppers, focusing on cooling performance, materials, comfort and value, we've found the best cooling mattress toppers out there.Read more: Best Cooling Mattress for 2025 What is the best overall cooling mattress topper? During our testing, we determined that Saatva's cooling graphite mattress topper is the best overall topper you can buy. Saatva is a brand known for quality, so it wasn't surprising to see its medium-firm cooling topper perform so well.
SaatvaThe Saatva cooling mattress topper is 3 inches of foam with a layer of graphite that's responsible for cooling. It's not going to feel like ice when you touch it, but it pulls the heat away from your body while you're in bed, which is all that most people need. Not to mention, this topper is extremely comfortable. We think it's in the medium-firm range, meaning almost anyone will like how it feels. You can't go wrong with the Saatva mattress topper.  See at Saatva Best cooling mattress toppers and pads for 2025
Saatva
Saatva Cooling Graphite Mattress Topper
Best overall cooling mattress topper
$295 at Saatva
Saatva is a trusted mattress brand well known for its quality products. Saatva's cooling mattress topper is no different -- it's 3 inches of comfy foam infused with a layer of cooling graphite, which is designed to pull heat away from your body while you sleep. This cooling mattress topper offers a medium-firm foam feel that limits motion transfer well, which is a bonus if you have a partner who moves around a lot at night. When testing, we found that Saatva's Cooling Graphite Mattress Topper had no off-gassing period. It has mattress straps that hug the corners of the bed, which keeps it from shifting at night. While this cooling mattress topper isn't icy cold when you touch it, the graphite technology Saatva implements did keep our team from heating up throughout the night. The Saatva cooling mattress topper's care instructions are spot clean only. It can't be machine washed or dry cleaned. Still, thanks to the pressure relief, graphite-infused design and medium-firm profile, the Saatva Cooling Graphic Mattress Topper is our pick for the best overall cooling mattress topper.ProsGood option for back and stomach sleepers who need a firmer feelFoam is treated to prevent the growth of bacteria, mold and mildewStraps help keep the topper sturdy on your mattressConsIt's on the pricey end of mattress toppersYou'll have to spot clean the cover if it gets dirtyAdditional detailsThickness: 3 inchesFirmness: Medium-firmTrial period: 180-night trial, one-year limited warrantyCare: Spot clean
$295 at Saatva
Nolah Mattress Topper
Best long-lasting mattress topper
$299 at Nolah
Many mattress toppers are simply slabs of foam placed on top of your bed. Over time, chunks of the foam can fall off or be rubbed away, which puts a timeline on their best performance. You don’t have that issue with the Nolah mattress topper. It’s a durable mattress topper with a thick, quilted cover and straps to keep it in place. The organic cotton cover is soft and breathable and wicks moisture away while you sleep. While it won’t actively cool you, it'll keep you from heating up at night.I tested the luxury firm model, which was extremely comfortable on my back and stomach. You don’t sink too far, but it does slowly conform to your body and provide pressure relief where you need it. However, it was a little firm on my side, so I would recommend the plush model to side sleepers. There is no removable cover on this topper, so you'll want to spot clean.ProsComfortable for back and stomach sleepersSoft organic cotton coverElastic bands to keep it in placeCompatible with 10- to 15-inch mattressesConsThe luxury firm profile was a little too firm for my sideNot actively coolingAdditional details: Thickness: 2 inchesWarranty: 10-year warranty Care: Spot cleanFirmness: Plush or Luxury Firm
$299 at Nolah
Tempurpedic
Tempur Adapt + Cooling Topper
Best cooling mattress topper for back pain
$429 at Tempurpedic
If your mattress is too firm, and you want to add a bit of pressure relief, consider the Tempur Adapt + Cooling Mattress topper. We think it's one of the best mattress toppers for back pain thanks to its 3-inch thick profile that feels cool when you touch it, and supportive medium-firm profile. People with back pain should opt for a firmer topper to ensure proper alignment along the spine and neck. We think it's one of the most comfortable cooling mattress toppers on the market, which isn't surprising from a mattress giant like Tempur-Pedic. If you want to wake up cool and pain-free, we think it's hard to beat the Tempur Adapt Cooling Mattress Topper. This cooling mattress topper features a removable and machine-washable cover, which also gives in a leg up in the cleaning department.ProsThe cover is machine washable Cool-to-the-touch feel is ideal for hot sleepersConsTempur-Pedic is an expensive brand and so are its toppersYou won't be able to get your money back if you don't like itAdditional detailsThickness: 3 inchesFirmness: Medium-firm or 7Trial: No returns, 10-year warrantyCare: Removable and washable cover, spot clean topper
$429 at Tempurpedic
Nest Bedding
Nest Bedding Cooling Topper
Best cooling mattress topper for side sleepers
$269 at Nest Bedding
The Nest Bedding cooling mattress topper consists of 2 inches of Energex Foam, which is specific to Nest. It doesn't have a traditional memory foam experience that sucks you into the bed. It has more of a neutral foam feel that everyone can enjoy. Unlike other cooling mattress toppers, the Nest topper has bubbles in the foam, allowing it to have good airflow so you won't get too hot at night. It looks pretty cool, too. The textured gray cover is made from the same phase-changing material as the Nest Alexander Mattress. It also has straps on each corner to help secure the topper to the mattress so it doesn't shift while you toss and turn at night. It's a good choice for most sleepers, especially side sleepers who want a little more pressure relief. ProsGood pick for all sleeping positions, including side sleepersStraps help secure the topper to your mattressConsIt's not as thick as some of the other toppers on our listYou'll have to spot clean if you spillAdditional detailsThickness: 2 inchesTrial period: 30 nights. two-year warrantyCare: Spot cleanFirmness: Medium
$269 at Nest Bedding
PlushBeds
PlushBeds 100% Natural Talalay Latex Topper
Best hypoallergenic cooling mattress topper
$445 at PlushBeds
The PlushBeds 100% Natural Talalay Latex Topper doesn't use any cooling technology. Instead, it's made from natural latex, which is naturally cooler than foams. It features an open-cell structure that carries your body heat away from your body and redistributes it through the topper. Thanks to its natural latex design, we think it's one of the market's best hypoallergenic cooling mattress toppers. It's naturally antimicrobial, hypoallergenic, and dust mite- and mildew-resistant. This cooling mattress topper is super thick and sturdy but has enough give that you get ample pressure relief, which is a must if you're a side sleeper. We think it's a great option for hot sleepers trying to stretch out the life of their mattress. We like the versatility that the PlushBeds Natural Talalay Latex Topper offers. You can choose from a 2- or 3-inch height and the full firmness scale. You can also add an organic cotton cover for an extra charge that varies based on the size. We tested the medium-firm, three-inch cooling mattress topper and found plenty of pressure relief without letting your body sink too far. ProsMultiple firmness options available to appeal to every sleeping positionMultiple height options to pick fromMade with environmentally friendly materialsConsIt'll have to be spot cleaned if it gets dirtyYou'll have to pay a steep price for it as it's made with natural materialsIt can't be returnedAdditional detailsThickness: 2 inches, 3 inchesFirmness: Soft, medium soft, medium, medium firm and extra firmTrial: Not returnable,five-year warrantyCare: Spot clean
$445 at PlushBeds
Brooklinen
Brooklinen Down Alternative Topper
Best affordable cooling mattress topper
$159 at Brooklinen
Slightly thinner than other cooling mattress toppers on the list, the Brooklinen Down Alternative Topper is one of the best down alternative cooling mattress toppers you can buy. It's also great if you're on a budget. This cooling mattress topper has a soft, microgel design with a quilted top that evenly distributes the fill across the topper. It has an attached skirt rather than straps, so it functions almost more as a mattress protector than a topper. It isn't going to offer you the generous amounts of pressure relief that other options will, and if you're looking to change the feel of your mattress, it won't do that either. However, the down alternative is ideal for sleepers with allergies or those who don't want animal products on their bed. This cooling mattress topper is breathable, antibacterial and hypoallergenic. ProsBudget-friendly pick for people who want a little added comfortDown alternative materials are more eco-friendly than regular downFits over your mattress like sheets so it stays secureConsIt's more like a mattress pad than topperIt won't make a significant change in your bed's firmness or feelAdditional detailsTrial: 365-day trial period, one-year warrantyCare: Machine wash cool, tumble dry on low
$159 at Brooklinen
Nature's Sleep
Nature's Sleep Mattress Topper
Best cooling memory foam mattress topper
$230 at Nature's Sleep
If you like the feel of memory foam and you're looking for serious pressure relief, then you'll love Nature's Sleep Mattress Topper. It's our pick for the best cooling memory foam mattress topper. This cooling mattress topper is three inches of foam encased in a soft cover that stretches around your mattress. It features AirFlow Gel Memory Foam for top-level cooling. All foam is CertiPUR-US approved, meaning it's made without ozone depleters and meets third-party emissions and durability standards. This cooling gel mattress topper is the best cooling memory foam mattress topper since just about anyone can sleep on it -- side, back and stomach sleepers. It's almost more affordable than other options on the list. The Nature's Sleep Mattress Topper will take a couple of hours to fully decompress, as indicated on the packaging. ProsAccording to Nature's Sleep, it's a good pick for all sleeping positionsOne of the more affordable picks on our listConsIt'll have to be spot cleaned if you spill something on itAdditional detailsThickness: 3 inchesTrial: 101-night sleep trialCare: Spot clean only
$230 at Nature's Sleep
Ghostbed
GhostBed Memory Foam Topper
Most stylish cooling mattress topper
$330 at Amazon
GhostBed has to be on the list of the best cooling mattress toppers, as it's one of the only mattress brands that offer true cooling mattress products. Featuring an intricate design, the GhostBed Memory Foam Topper is the most stylish cooling mattress you can get.This cooling mattress topper is divided into five sections of waves, squiggles and swirls with different textures and firmness. This isn't a new concept; it's zoned support, which mattresses like Casper and Leesa use. Essentially, this cooling topper is slightly firmer in spots where your body needs extra support or cushion.The strategic cuts and carvings of the GhostBed Memory Foam Mattress Topper promote cooling airflow. Not to mention, GhostBed is cool to the touch. It also has deep-pocket covers that function as a waterproof mattress protector. Overall, we like this best cooling mattress topper because it contours to your body while cooling you. It's a hot sleeper's dream!ProsIt's easy to clean in the case of a spillZoned foam offers targeted pressure relief and supportSuitable for all sleeping positionsDeep pocket coversConsIt can't be returned if you don't like itAdditional detailsThickness: 3 inchesFirmness: MediumTrial: Five-year warranty, free deliveryCare: Removable machine washable cover
$330 at Amazon
Cozy Earth
Cozy Earth Mattress Pad
Best temperature-regulating mattress pad
$370 at Cozy Earth
The Cozy Earth Mattress Pad is a hypoallergenic, temperature-regulating mattress pad made from 100% bamboo-derived viscose. While it's not technically a mattress topper, it's still a great choice for hot sleepers or people who live in a humid environment. Mattress pads are similar to mattress toppers. However, they tend to be thinner and designed to add comfort, not changing how the bed feels like a topper does. The Cozy Earth Mattress Pad is one of the best cooling mattress pads, as it features deep pockets that keep it from slipping off your mattress while you sleep.  When testing, our team's first impression was that this cooling mattress pad looked high quality and soft. It's temperature-regulating but not icy cold to the touch. You shouldn't expect to be instantly cooled when you sleep on it. However, it may redistribute your heat better than your mattress. ProsMade with eco-friendly bamboo viscoseMore affordable than a mattress topperConsIt's thinner than a topper and won't change your bed's firmnessAdditional detailsTrial period: 100-night risk-free trial, 10-year warranty Care: Spot clean or dry cleanWho it's best for: People on a budget who want to add comfort to their bed without changing how it feels
$370 at Cozy Earth
Brooklyn Bedding
Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Mattress Protector
Best cooling mattress protector
$129 at Brooklyn Bedding
While it's not a mattress topper, the Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Mattress Protector makes this list of the best cooling mattress pads because it's inspired by the Brooklyn Bedding Aurora Luxe mattress -- one of the only truly cooling mattresses on the market. Waterproof, hypoallergenic and made from high-quality cotton, this cooling mattress protector is a great choice for hot sleepers who like the feel and firmness of their current mattress; they just want the temperature benefits. Made to pull heat away from your body, the Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Mattress Protector is super soft and cool. It's machine washable and fits any average-size mattress from 11 to 14 inches thick. If your mattress is too firm or you want to add another layer of foam to your bed, this isn't the right choice. It is strictly for those who want to protect their bed from stains, dust mites and bed bugs. Or someone who just wants to sleep cooler at night. ProsProtects your mattress against stains, water damage, bugs, dust and other household allergensMachine washableOffers a good valueConsWon't change the feel or firmness of your mattressAdditional detailsTrial: 30-night trialWarranty: Three-year warranty for protector defects Care: Machine washable
$129 at Brooklyn Bedding
Cool Care Technologies
Cool Flash Pad Cooling Body Pad
Best cooling mattress pad for hot flashes
$85 at Amazon
The Cool Flash Pad Cooling Body Pad isn't a mattress topper or mattress protector. It's a cooling sleeping pad designed for single-person use. That's why we think it's a good choice for sleeping with hot flashes or fevers.This cooling body pad is pressure activated, so you must lie on it or sit to feel the benefits. Unlike cooling mattress toppers, this cooling pad needs time to recharge. It stays cool for around three hours and takes 30 minutes to recharge. Also, put it in the fridge or freezer for an even colder experience. This cooling body pad is best suited when you need to cool off fast, like when you have a fever or are experiencing a hot flash. The Cool Flash Pad Cooling Body Pad is lightweight and easy to travel with. It's available in large (43.4 by 27.6 inches) and small (11.75 by 15.75 inches) sizes. ProsYou can put it in the fridge or freezer for a more intense cooling feelGreat for hot flashes, fevers or when you need immediate cooling reliefConsIt's only big enough for one person Additional detailsTrial: 12-month limited manufacturer's warrantyCare: Clean with mild soap and water
$85 at Amazon
Best Cooling Mattress Toppers of 2025 comparedBest cooling mattress toppers compared
Saatva Cooling Graphite Mattress TopperNolahTempur adapt + cooling topperPlushBeds 100% natural talalay latex topperBrooklinen down alternative Nature's sleep mattress topperGhostBed memory foam topperCozy Earth mattress padBrooklyn Bedding luxury cooling mattress protectorCool Flash padThickness 3 inches2 inches3 inches2-3 inchesAdaptive3-inches3-inches---Firmness Medium-firmPlush or luxury firmMedium-firm or 7Soft, medium soft, medium, medium firm and extra firm--Medium---Trial period 180 night10-year warrantyNo returns, 10 year warrantyNot returnable, 5 year warranty365-day trial, one-year warranty101-night sleep trialFive-year warranty, free delivery100-night risk free trial, 10-year warranty30-night trial, 3-year warranty12-month limited warrantyCare Spot cleanSpot cleanRemovable and washable coverSpot cleanMachine wash cool, tumble dry on lowSpot cleanRemovable machine washable coverSpot cleanMachine washableClean with mild soap and water
How we test the best cooling mattress toppersWe chose the best cooling mattress toppers for this list the only way you can, by testing them. We approached testing cooling mattress toppers like we test mattresses, considering performance, pricing and warranty. We assessed the toppers on key factors like firmness, feel and cooling performance when working with them.
Firmness and feel We all have preferences when it comes to our beds, and the industry has done a great job of making sure that a wide range of options are available to you. However, this means there will be plenty of mattresses and toppers out there that won't suit your needs. Firmness and feel are the two main things you must remember when shopping for mattresses.  Firmness is a measure of how hard or soft your mattress is. A lot of this is a preference, but some of it relies on your sleep position. Back and stomach sleepers generally need a firmer mattress, while side or combination sleepers tend to value the pressure relief that a softer mattress topper offers. When testing firmness, our team rates each topper by how firm it feels to them. We then compare that to our existing data to find where the topper falls on our scale.How your mattress topper feels is another crucial factor. They're all comfortable, but you won't feel the same when lying down on them. Some have the traditional stuck-in-the-mud memory foam feel, while others boast a neutral foam feel that's more like a cloud. Both firmness and feel are highlighted in each review.
Cooling performance Regarding cooling products, performance is one of the most important things we consider. The word "cooling" gets tossed around a lot in the mattress industry, but very few mattress toppers actually cool you. Most of the time, they pull heat away from the body with gel foam or superior airflow. Mattresses that are cool to the touch get the highest cooling rating.
Price and warranty informationIt's important to us that all budgets and price points are reasonably reflected on our lists. We also compared the warranty information of each mattress topper so you know exactly what you get when you buy. Online shopping for mattress products can be intimidating. To make the list, the topper had to have some sort of trial or warranty that makes sure your purchase is protected.
What to consider when shopping for the best cooling mattress topper
The mattress topper market is flooded with various options, making it difficult to choose the best mattress topper for your needs. With cooling mattress toppers, the search can get even more involved. How do you know which toppers cool you and which are just clever marketing? Thankfully, a few key factors can help you determine your ideal cooling mattress topper.
Material: The first thing to remember when shopping for the best cooling mattress topper is what it's made of. Most of this comes down to preference -- do you like memory foam? Or want a more natural option? Some materials, like latex foam, are naturally cooler than foam. Thickness and firmness: Many cooling mattress toppers have various thickness and firmness options. This is important for how much you want to change the feel of your mattress. You can turn a too-firm mattress into a plush memory foam dream with a topper. Alternatively, you can also firm up your mattress with a topper. Cooling features: Cooling mattresses and toppers will have additional features that contribute to their cooling -- that's what sets them apart from standard mattress toppers. Look for cooling elements like phase-change material, copper or graphite-infused or heat-wicking innovation. Cleaning: Cooling foam toppers are not like sheets -- you can't just throw them in the washing machine. They are similar to mattresses in that they have very specific cleaning instructions, most of which are spot-clean only. However, if you're prone to spills, opting for a cooling mattress topper with a removable and machine-washable cover is a good idea. Other mattress toppers we've tested We've tested a ton of mattress toppers, not just the ones that cool you. We've even made a list of the best mattress toppers to help make it easier to find your ideal match. Here are some other toppers we've tested that are worth checking out.  Allswell 4-inch Topper Infused with Copper Gel: The Allswell mattress topper has a two-layer design that offers two inches of comfort on top and two inches of support below. It strikes a nice balance between being a comfortable topper that doesn't sacrifice support.  Layla Memory Foam Topper: The Layla topper is a great option if you want to soften your mattress, but you don't want a dense memory foam feel. You know, the feeling of the bed slowly swallowing you up. You won't find that with the Layla topper. This memory topper has a light and airy, neutral-foam feel.    Birch Plus Organic Mattress Topper: The Birch mattress topper is made from cotton and latex, which makes it hypoallergenic and antimicrobial. It's a good option if you want a firm feel when you sleep. The latex also allows for increased airflow.   DreamFoam Gel Swirl Topper: If you're looking for a true memory foam mattress topper feel, you'll love the DreamFoam Gel Swirl Topper. It has between a medium and medium-soft firmness level.  What's the difference between a cooling pad, cooling protector and cooling topper?The best cooling mattress toppers, pads and protectors often get lumped together. However, there are a few key differences between them.Cooling mattress toppers go on top of your mattress and often have straps that secure it to the bed. They are most often used to add substantial pressure relief or change how your mattress feels. A cooling mattress topper can make your bed more or less firm. They range from one to four inches thick. Cooling mattress pads add cushion to your mattress, but they don't change how your bed feels. Cooling mattress protectors encase your mattress to protect it from spills and dust mites. Some have minimal padding but not as much as a mattress pad or topper.
Other cooling sleeping products
Hot sleepers have many options for cooling down at night. If you're ready to dive into cooling mattresses, we tested the top options available on our best cooling mattress review, which features mattresses like Ghostbed Luxe and Brooklyn Bedding Aurora Luxe. We've also tested unique cooling products like the Eight Sleep Pod, which is a temperature-controlled cover with coils and a water tank that allows you either lower or raise the temperature based on your needs. It's one of the most advanced cooling products out there, though it's definitely on the expensive side. We know mattresses and even mattress toppers, for that matter, are expensive. Thankfully, you can still get some cooling relief without breaking the bank and opt for cooling sheets or pillows. Best cooling mattress topper FAQ
What is a mattress topper?
A mattress topper is a slab of foam material that goes on top of your mattress to make it more comfortable. Typically ranging from one to four inches, mattress toppers can help you change the firmness of your mattress without buying a whole new mattress. They are great for people on a budget who need to extend the life of their current bed.
Can a mattress topper improve an older mattress?
Yes, a mattress topper can improve an older mattress. If you've felt the need for a new sleeping setup but are a little tight on money, adding a mattress topper can help change how your bed feels and even improve your sleep quality.
Do cooling mattress toppers really work?
Yes, the best cooling mattress toppers work. However, they don't all work in the same way. Many cooling mattress toppers are made with cooling technology, like phase change material or graphite-infused layers of foam. These innovations help to keep you from getting too hot at night. But that doesn't mean they cool you down.Only a few mattresses and mattress toppers are physically cool when you touch them, Ghostbed and Brooklyn Bedding being two of the most popular.
What size (in inches) should a mattress topper be?
For the ideal sleeping experience, most mattress toppers are 2 or 3 inches thick. The lesser the thickness, the firmer it'll feel. If you like a plush-feeling bed, go with a 3-inch topper. Otherwise, stick to the former. Anything more than 2 or 3 inches can change how your bed feels and even have a negative impact.
Which mattress toppers are best at cooling?
The mattress topper that is the best at cooling is specifically designed with technologies that allow them to do so. Certain materials, like latex foam, are naturally cool. But there are other things companies add in their cooling mattress toppers that keep you from getting too warm -- like phase-changing material or cooling gel. The best cooling mattress toppers that physically cool you are options like Ghostbed.
How do you keep a mattress topper from sliding?
The last thing you want is a cooling mattress topper that moves around when you sleep, requiring constant adjustment. Companies combat this with straps and skirts that secure the topper to your mattress. Some options even have a grippy material on the underside of the topper that secures it to your mattress.
Can you wash a cooling mattress topper?
Typically, you cannot wash a cooling mattress topper. Memory foam and gel toppers, which are the majority of cooling toppers, should only be spot cleaned as machine washing can be too rough and damage their structure and cooling properties. You may be able to wash some cooling toppers, but it's best to check the care instructions for the particular model you own. Also, most toppers have machine-washable covers, either bundled with or sold separately, so you can wash the covers if not the toppers themselves.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.