United States and Mexico Reach Agreement to Permanently and Urgently End Decades-Long Tijuana River Sewage Crisis | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
News Releases
United States and Mexico Reach Agreement to Permanently and Urgently End Decades-Long Tijuana River Sewage Crisis
Trump Administration Secures Massive Environmental and National Security Victory for USA
July 24, 2025
Contact Information
EPA Press Office
(press@epa.gov)
Mexico City, Mexico — Today, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lee Zeldin met with Secretary of the Environment and National Resources of Mexico Alicia Bárcena Ibarra at the Council of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC), to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the United States and Mexico to address and solve the decades-long Tijuana River sewage crisis. For many decades, untreated raw sewage has flowed into Southern California from Mexico, polluting the Tijuana River Valley, closing beaches, fouling the air, harming the region’s economy, and sickening people on both sides of the border.  “The Trump Administration is proud to deliver this massive environmental and national security win for Americans in the San Diego area who have been living with this disgusting raw sewage flowing into their communities for far too long,” said EPA Administrator Zeldin. This agreement achieves the three top Trump Administration priorities and milestones critical to ensuring a 100% solution to this issue: Mexico will obligate the remaining $93 million of Minute 328 funds that they hadn’t yet obligated. The timeline for completion of the remaining Minute 328 projects have been reduced. Several necessary Mexico side projects have been added to account for future population growth in Tijuana and operation and maintenance costs. This MOU is a direct result of the recent negotiations between the Trump Administration and Mexico following Administrator Zeldin’s visit to San Diego in April. Immediately after the trip, Administrator Zeldin and EPA leadership began working with the U.S. Department of State to begin negotiating with Mexico. This agreement outlines specific actions the United States and Mexico will take to implement a permanent 100% solution to end this crisis. “In April, I visited San Diego to meet with local community members, elected officials, and residents who have been dealing with the consequences of this crisis for decades. I made a commitment to the residents that I would spearhead an effort to construct an all-encompassing plan to finally bring the sewage crisis to an end,” continued EPA Administrator Zeldin. “Since my visit, the Mexican and United States’ governments have been working collaboratively to urgently finalize a permanent 100% solution to this longstanding issue. Secretary Rubio and the whole State Department, and the National Security Council at the White House worked hand-in-hand with EPA, and other federal partners, to make this agreement a reality. And, of course, none of this would have been possible without the leadership and direction of President Trump. This is not just a solution for 2025. We devised this agreement to factor in population growth, operation and maintenance costs, and other variables that would make this solution durable and long term. Grateful to President Claudia Sheinbaum, Secretary Bárcena, and the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs for their partnership, cooperation, and commitment to work with us to clean up the Tijuana River Valley. This is a huge win for millions of Americans and Mexicans who have been calling on us to end this decades old crisis.” MOU Details Under the signed MOU, both nations have agreed to expedite the timelines of critical infrastructure projects in the U.S. International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) Minute No. 328 ("Minute 328"). This includes completion of all projects by Mexico no later than December 31, 2027 – in some cases, four years ahead of schedule. The United States—which has withheld sending more American dollars to projects until Mexico fulfilled their obligations toward other projects—agreed to release EPA Border Water Infrastructure Program (BWIP) funding to complete the rehabilitation of Pump Station 1 and the Tijuana River collection pipes. This is because Mexico agreed to fund and begin construction on two priority projects this year, the diversion of treated effluent from two wastewater treatment plants and the rehabilitation of the Parallel Gravity Line. This increased the total number of projects planned for this year from two to six. To that end, Mexico will immediately seek internal funding to initiate the construction process for the diversion, which will divert 10 million gallons per day (MGD) of treated effluent entering the Tijuana River, and the rehabilitation of the Parallel Gravity Line. This will be completed no later than December 31, 2025. Mexico will allocate the remaining funds needed to complete all remaining Minute 328 projects as part of their 2026 and 2027 budgets, in keeping with the deadline of December 31, 2027, or sooner. The first half of projects will be funded in this year’s ongoing Mexican President’s budget request, and completion in 2026 will follow a U.S.-determined priority schedule. As soon as August 28, 2025, the U.S. IBWC agrees to complete the expansion of the South Bay International Wastewater Treatment Plant (SBIWTP) from 25 to 35 MGD, increasing treatment capacity in record time. To accomplish the permanent, long-term, and durable 100% solution to this crisis, Mexico has agreed to enter into a new Minute with the United States no later than December 31, 2025. This new Minute will contain, at minimum, one dozen new actions that the United States deemed necessary to permanently end this crisis. Within the next 100 days, both the U.S. and Mexico agree to evaluate all infrastructure projects schedules to ensure projects are on the shortest possible timelines for completion.  Please see the full Memorandum of Understanding for more information.Background During Administrator Zeldin's April trip, he met with his Mexican counterpart, Secretary Barcena, and saw the crisis firsthand by visiting the SBIWTP, participating in a roundtable with local elected officials, meeting with Navy SEALs, and taking a helicopter tour of the Southern border. Since the trip, EPA consulted with IBWC to fast-track projects to increase the capacity of SBIWTP. Shortly thereafter, IBWC commenced expansion of the plant’s treatment capacity from 25 MGD to 35 MGD. The project was initially slated to take two years, but IBWC expects to have it done by August 28, 2025 — only 100 days from start to finish.
Related Links
Headquarters | Office of the Administrator (AO)
Read other EPA News Releases about Water
Read other EPA News Releases about Partnerships and Stewardship
Read other EPA News Releases about International
Read other EPA News Releases about Administrator
Contact Us about News Releases
Contact Us about News Releases to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on July 25, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.