How do I stop being jealous of my girlfriend’s dog?
: NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
How do I stop being jealous of my girlfriend’s dog?
"I find myself wishing she didn't have him," writes an NPR listener of his new girlfriend's dog. Podcasters Haley Nahman and Danny Nelson weigh in.
Life Kit
Tools To Help You Get It Together
Health
Money
Parenting
Dear Life Kit
Life Skills
Podcast
Newsletter
Twitter
Dear Life Kit:
I'm jealous of my new girlfriend's dog. Should I call it quits?
April 15, 20255:00 AM ET
By
Andee Tagle
,
Malaka Gharib
DLK: In our relationship, the dog comes first. Now I'm having doubts about us
Listen
·
21:20
21:20
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5347731/g-s1-60234" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Getty Images; Photo collage by NPR
Dear Life Kit is NPR's advice column, where experts answer tricky questions about relationships, social etiquette, work culture and more.  Send us your anonymous questions. For our next episode, we're looking for your queries on doubt and decision-making in relationships.  These questions were answered by Haley Nahman of the Maybe Baby newsletter and podcast, and Danny Nelson, co-host of Maybe Baby's Dear Danny advice series. The conversation has been edited for length and clarity. Dear Life Kit, I recently started talking to someone I really like, and we’re taking it slow. However, despite her busy lifestyle, she got a big dog that has attachment issues and spends all her time and money on him now. I didn't think I'd end up being jealous of a dog, but I find myself wishing she didn't have him so we could focus on each other. It's making me doubt whether she's still available and open to a relationship. How do I stop being jealous of a pet? Should I just consider it a loss, cut ties and move on? —Puppy Love
Sponsor Message
Nahman: A dog can impact a relationship in different ways. I know someone who has a really high-needs dog, and it added a lot of stress to their relationship and they ended up breaking up. I know another person who never wanted to get a dog because he wanted to be free, travel and stay out late. He finally meets somebody. She has a dog, and now he's obsessed. It's become a cute part of their relationship.
Dear Life Kit
Dear Life Kit: We bought a dog instead of rescuing one. It cost me a friend
Nelson: It's not like you're jealous of a pet. It's just very difficult to share space and time with an animal that needs constant attending to. Nahman: Are you attracted to that quality in this person that makes her excited about tending to her dog? If the answer is yes, I'd say you can get through this early period. Start by accepting the dog is part of the package, finding the joy in it and giving it a shot. That means engaging with your girlfriend and her dog in ways you think are really fun. Nelson: Just begin doing things for the dog. Nahman: Care begets love. It's not the other way around. But if that doesn't really suit you, and you don't have much of an attachment to this person, you can call the relationship off.
Sponsor Message
The podcast episode was produced by Andee Tagle. The digital story was edited by Meghan Keane. The visual editor is Beck Harlan. We'd love to hear from you. Leave us a voicemail at 202-216-9823, or email us at LifeKit@npr.org. Listen to Life Kit on Apple Podcasts and Spotify, and sign up for our newsletter. Follow us on Instagram: @nprlifekit.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor