Officials release video, plead for public's help in tracking down person of interest in Charlie Kirk shooting - ABC News
ABC NewsLiveVideoShowsShopInterest Successfully AddedWe'll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? OffOnLog InStream onOfficials release video, plead for public's help in tracking down person of interest in Charlie Kirk shootingAuthorities say "distinctive clothing" may help identify the shooter.ByMeredith Deliso, David Brennan, Megan Forrester, and Jack MooreVideo byLilia GehoSeptember 11, 2025, 10:33 PM4:31A still from a video released by the FBI of the suspected gunman in the fatal shooting of Charlie Kirk.FBIOfficials released new video of the person of interest in conservative influencer Charlie Kirk's killing, showing the suspected gunman climbing down from the roof of a building on the campus of Utah Valley University where authorities believe he fired the fatal shot and walking away from the scene.The video was played during a news conference Thursday evening with state and federal officials. Utah Gov. Spencer Cox made a plea to the public for tips to help identify and locate "this evil human.""We cannot do our job without the public's help right now," Cox said. He said state officials are already moving to pursue the death penalty if the case goes to trial.  A still from a video released by the FBI of the suspected gunman in the fatal shooting of Charlie Kirk.FBIThe FBI said it is offering a reward of up to $100,000 for information leading to the identification and arrest of the person responsible for Kirk's murder.FBI Director Kash Patel appeared alongside the governor at the news conference Thursday evening but did not address reporters nor take questions. Shortly before the news conference, Utah authorities released new photos of the person of interest in the shooting, in which the individual can be seen on steps while carrying a black backpack and wearing a shirt with what appeared to be an American flag print on it.The Utah Department of Public Safety released new images of the person of interest in the fatal shooting of Charlie Kirk.Utah Department of Public Safety The Utah Department of Public Safety released new images of the person of interest in the fatal shooting of Charlie Kirk.Utah Department of Public Safety The head of Utah Department of Public Safety said the suspect was wearing "distinct clothing" that could help in identifying the suspect, including Converse sneakers. He said the person seen in the video jumping from the roof left shoe impressions and a palm print. So far authorities have received more than 7,000 tips and leads and completed some 200 interviews, the governor said.Earlier Thursday, the FBI's Salt Lake City office released two initial images of the individual, who is wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses and was captured in a stairwell in one of them.The FBI released images of a person of interest sought in connection with the deadly shooting of Charlie Kirk.FBI Salt Lake CityThe screenshots were pulled from campus security footage just before the shooting, according to the Utah Department of Public Safety.'High-powered' firearm recoveredAmid the manhunt for the suspect, who is believed to be college-aged, officials said Thursday they are working "around the clock" to locate the individual.The FBI also said Thursday it has recovered what is believed to be the weapon used in the deadly shooting. A "high-powered bolt action rifle" was recovered in a wooded area near where the shooting took place, according to Salt Lake City FBI Special Agent Robert Bohls.The rifle is an older model imported Mauser .30-06 caliber bolt action rifle wrapped in a towel, multiple law enforcement sources told ABC News. The location of the firearm appears to match the suspect's route of travel, the sources said.The spent cartridge was still chambered and three unspent cartridges contained wording on them expressing what some law enforcement officials described as "transgender and anti-fascist" writing, according to preliminary information shared with agencies. It's unclear what that means and authorities are still working to determine the meaning or whether the markings were intended as misdirection for investigators.At a briefing Friday morning, Gov. Cox detailed what was allegedly written on the shell casings and they did not contain "transgender" references. Apart from fascism, Cox did not elaborate on any of the other references. The gun and cartridges recovered are to be flown to the FBI's main laboratory in Quantico, Virginia, for the most technologically advanced forensic analysis, law enforcement sources told ABC News. The focus is to look for any latent fingerprints and DNA, the sources said. Upon completion of forensics, the firearm will be disassembled for additional importer information.This screen grab from a video by Amy King shows right-wing youth activist and influencer Charlie Kirk speaking during a public event at Utah Valley University minutes before he was shot in Orem, Utah, on Sept. 10, 2025.Amy King/UGC via AFP via Getty ImagesTracking the shooter's movementsOfficials said they have been able to track the movements of the shooter and have "good" video footage of the individual, Utah Department of Public Safety Commissioner Beau Mason said on Thursday. The video footage will not be released to the public at this time, Mason said.At 11:52 a.m. on Wednesday, the suspect arrived on the Orem campus and then proceeded to travel through the stairwells up to the roof of a building near the where the outdoors event was taking place, before the suspect fired down at Kirk, Mason said.A drone view shows the reported location of the shooter on a rooftop, at the scene where U.S. right-wing activist, commentator, Charlie Kirk was fatally shot during an event at Utah Valley University, in Orem, Utah, September 11, 2025.Cheney Orr/ReutersManhunt for shooter continues after Charlie Kirk killed in 'political assassination'Kirk was hit by a single shot at approximately 12:20 p.m. and taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead, authorities said.After the shooting, the suspect traveled to the other side of the building, jumped off and fled off-campus into a neighborhood, Mason said. Officials are working through nearby neighborhoods, contacting people with doorbell cameras and speaking to witnesses to identify any leads, Mason said.Along with recovering the weapon, Bohls said investigators have also collected a footwear impression, palm print and forearm imprints for analysis.Diagram of Utah Valley University campus area where Charlie Kirk was shotGoogle Earth, ABC NewsOfficials emphasized the shooting was a "targeted" attack and they are "exhausting every lead.""We will not stand for what happened yesterday," Mason said. "We are investing everything we have into this and we will catch this individual."Authorities are searching for "any and all potential suspects related to this incident," the Utah Department of Public of Safety said Thursday afternoon."Multiple leads are currently being investigated, but no suspect is in custody," it said.The FBI asked for tips from the public as the manhunt for the perpetrator continues, urging anyone with information, photos or video from the incident to share it with investigators. So far, the Utah Department of Public of Safety said it has received more than 200 tips, as the search for the shooting suspect continues."I want to make it crystal clear right now to whoever did this, we will find you. We will try you, and we will hold you accountable to the furthest extent of the law," Cox said during a press briefing Wednesday, calling the fatal shooting a "political assassination."Flowers sit next to the Utah Valley University sign in a makeshift memorial for political activist Charlie Kirk, September 11, 2025 in Orem, Utah.Michael Ciaglo/Getty ImagesTrump blames political rhetoricAsked if he was concerned that authorities have not yet apprehended the suspect, now more than 24 hours after the shooting, President Donald Trump told reporters Thursday, "I hear they're making big progress, and we'll have to see what happen."Popular ReadsWhat to know about Tyler Robinson, Charlie Kirk shooting suspectSep 14, 2:32 PMTrump poised to fire US attorney for resisting effort to charge NY AG: SourcesSep 19, 5:44 PMSongwriter Brett James among 3 killed in small plane crashSep 19, 3:46 PMPressed if he knew the shooter's motivation, Trump said he has "an indication, yeah, but we'll let you know about that later."In the wake of the shooting, Trump and prominent MAGA personalities have sought to tie the killing to Democratic political rhetoric.In a video posted to social media late Wednesday, Trump said, "It's a long past time for all Americans and the media to confront the fact that violence and murder are the tragic consequence of demonizing those with whom you disagree.""For years, those on the radical Left have compared wonderful Americans like Charlie to Nazis and the world's worst mass murderers and criminals," he added. "This kind of rhetoric is directly responsible for the terrorism that we're seeing in our country today, and it must stop right now."He listed recent examples of political violence in the country against Republicans, but did not mention any targeting Democrats, such as the shootings of two Minnesota state lawmakers at their homes in June.In his remarks with reporters on Thursday, the president said he would like to see his supporters respond with "nonviolence."Trump condemns political violence, but doesn't mention attacks on DemocratsTrump's son Eric, meanwhile, told Fox News' Sean Hannity he was "sick and tired of seeing the bullets -- they are only going one way."Utah Gov. Spencer Cox got emotional Wednesday as he delivered a message mentioning recent attacks on both Democrats and Republicans."Our nation is broken," Cox said. "We've had political assassinations recently in Minnesota. We had an attempted assassination on the governor of Pennsylvania. And we had an attempted assassination on a presidential candidate and former president of the United States -- and now current president of the United States. Nothing I say can unite us as a country. Nothing I can say right now can fix what is broken. Nothing I can say can bring back Charlie Kirk. Our hearts are broken."Controversial campus visitKirk -- a 31-year-old father of two -- was considered a confidant of Trump and highly influential in the conservative youth movement.He founded the conservative advocacy group Turning Point USA in 2012 at the age of 18, and in the 2024 elections was credited with building significant support for Trump among young voters.A drone view shows the scene where U.S. right-wing activist, commentator, Charlie Kirk was fatally shot during an event at Utah Valley University, in Orem, Utah, September 11, 2025.Cheney Orr/ReutersThe Utah event was expected to include a "prove me wrong" table, according to the tour's website.Ahead of the conservative political activist's visit to Utah Valley University, some students started an online petition asking university administrators to stop him from coming.Though Kirk's visit was controversial on campus, police were tracking no specific or credible threats before the fatal shooting, Utah law enforcement sources told ABC News.More than 3,000 people were estimated to be at the event, according to the university's police chief, Jeff Long. There were six police officers, along with Kirk's private security, according to Long.UVU will be closed until Sept. 14, according to a notice posted on the university's website.Utah Gov. Spencer Cox, left, speaks with Utah Valley University Chief of Police Jeff Long, right, at the Keller Building on the Utah Valley University campus after Charlie Kirk was shot and died during Turning Point's visit to the university, Sept. 10, 2025, in Orem, Utah.Hannah Schoenbaum/AP'Unrelated' person arrestedThe Utah Department of Public of Safety said Thursday that an "unrelated subject" was arrested at the university Thursday morning. The individual entered the school grounds, entered a secured area and began to take photos of the crime scene, it said."When an agent ordered him to stop and attempted to identify him, the male fled on foot but was soon apprehended by other officers," the department said. "He has been booked into the Utah County Jail for felony obstruction and trespassing.The department also said in an update Wednesday night that two people were initially taken into custody after the shooting but later released.The first was released and later charged with obstruction by university police. The second person was taken into custody and released after an "interrogation" by law enforcement, the department said.Utah authorities said "there are no current ties to the shooting with either of these individuals."'I was in total shock': Witnesses to fatal Charlie Kirk shooting recount gruesome sceneWhite House tributes to KirkTrump ordered all American flags throughout the country to be lowered to half-staff through Sunday evening in Kirk's honor. On Thursday, he also announced he will posthumously award Kirk the Presidential Medal of Freedom, saying he was a "giant of his generation.""It's horrific. It's one of the most horrible things I've ever seen," Trump told ABC News Chief Washington Correspondent Jonathan Karl on Wednesday."He was a great guy," Trump said. "He was a good man. He was an incredible guy. Nobody like him."Trump told reporters Thursday that he had a "long talk" with Kirk's widow, Erika."She's devastated. She's absolutely devastated, as you can imagine," he said. Vice President JD Vance and the second lady will meet with Kirk's family and a number of his close friends in Salt Lake City on Thursday, a source confirmed to ABC News. Kirk's casket, along with his family and friends, will then be flown to Phoenix aboard Air Force Two, the source also confirmed. Vance called Kirk "a genuinely good guy and a young father" while urging prayers in the aftermath of the shooting on Wednesday.In this Dec. 22, 2024, right-wing activist Charlie Kirk speaks on stage at America Fest 2024, in Phoenix, Arizona.Josh Edelson/AFP via Getty ImagesCharlie Kirk's influence, reach helped propel Donald Trump into officeCondemnation over the attack came from both sides of the political spectrum."There is no place in our country for this kind of violence. It must end now," Former President Joe Biden said. "Jill and I are praying for Charlie Kirk's family and loved ones.""The attack on Charlie Kirk is horrifying and this growing type of unconscionable violence cannot be allowed in our society," Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro, a Democrat, said on X.Fellow Democratic governor, California's Gavin Newsom, said on X that the "attack on Charlie Kirk is disgusting, vile, and reprehensible. In the United States of America, we must reject political violence in EVERY form."ABC News' Aaron Katersky, Luke Barr, Josh Margolin, Ivan Pereira, Lalee Ibssa, Isabella Murray, Katherine Faulders, Jack Date, Chris Looft and Helena Skinner contributed to this report.Related TopicsCharlie Kirk shootingSponsored Content by TaboolaPopular ReadsWhat to know about Tyler Robinson, Charlie Kirk shooting suspectSep 14, 2:32 PMTrump poised to fire US attorney for resisting effort to charge NY AG: SourcesSep 19, 5:44 PMSongwriter Brett James among 3 killed in small plane crashSep 19, 3:46 PMTrump admin live updates: Trump appears to criticize Bondi over investigations1 hour agoABC News Live24/7 coverage of breaking news and live eventsABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationContact Us © 2025 ABC News