The Windows 11 Snipping Tool is getting a killer time-saving feature
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The Windows 11 Snipping Tool is getting a killer time-saving feature
By
Simon Batt
Published 2 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
The new Quick Markup feature in Snipping Tool allows you to annotate screenshots before capture, but it is currently only available in the Dev/Canary branches.
You can open Snipping Tool with Win+Shift+S, then toggle Quick Markup via toolbar or Ctrl+E to edit before saving.
Paint gains project files and brush opacity; Notepad adds free Copilot+ AI tools, such as Summarize and Rewrite.
I'm a big fan of the Windows 11 Snipping Tool. Sure, it's no ShareX, but as a default screenshotting feature you can use on any Windows 11, it does the job just fine. However, Microsoft has been slowly adding new features to the Snipping Tool that make it a pretty good contender, even against third-party options. If you, too, are a fan of this handy little feature, you'll be pleased to know that it's getting a new update. Now, annotating your screenshots before you take them is about to get a lot easier.
The Windows 11 Dev and Canary builds are getting a better Snipping Tool
In a post on the Windows Insider Blog, Microsoft explains what's coming to the Snipping Tool on the Dev and Canary builds. These are the testing builds for Windows 11, so you won't find these new features on every Windows 11 PC. However, if everything works as intended, we should see them arrive on every device soon. This new feature is called "Quick markup," and it allows you to annotate a screenshot before it's taken:
To get started, open Snipping Tool via Win + Shift + S or launch the app directly. Before capturing your selection area, you’ll now see a Quick markup button in the top toolbar. Click on this button to toggle the feature on, or use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + E. Once the button is on, go ahead and select your selection region. You’ll notice after this, you’ll be able to markup and make edits to your image right in Snipping Tool’s selection area before finalizing your screenshot!
Gone are the days when you had to take a screenshot, import it into Paint, and then annotate; now you can do whatever you like before the screenshot is even saved. ShareX does the same thing, and it's a massive time-saver to annotate an image before it's saved, so I'm happy it's finally in the Snipping Tool too. The update also includes new features for Paint and Notepad. For Paint, the company now allows you to save images as project files and has also added an opacity slider for brushes, which is somewhat unusual for what was once a basic image editor. I guess Paint is finally climbing up to the big leagues. Meanwhile, Notepad now lets you use AI tools such as "Summarize, Write, and Rewrite" if you're using it on a Copilot+ PC, and you don't even have to pay a subscription to use them. Very neat.
Windows
Windows 11: Everything you need to know
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
4 NotebookLM power user secrets you didn't know about
2 days ago
Nvidia is giving away copies of Borderlands 4, but there is a catch
2 days ago
I still use Obsidian, but I wish they'd fix its plugin dependency
3 days ago
This ultra-compact keyboard with Qi wireless charging is now just $36
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
2 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
15 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I tried cutting Windows out of my life with WinBoat, but I just can't recommend it
9 reasons your ISP's router is hot garbage
This tiny and cheap x86 mini PC is the best Jellyfin server you're overlooking
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.