About the Editors | Nature
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
about the editors
About the Editors
Editor in Chief
Magdalena Skipper, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
As Editor in Chief, Magdalena leads Nature’s magazine and research editorial teams. A geneticist by training, she has considerable editorial and publishing experience: having started in Nature Publishing Group in 2001, she was Chief Editor of Nature Reviews Genetics, Senior Editor for genetics and genomics at Nature, and Executive Editor for the Nature Partner Journals. Before joining Nature as Editor in Chief she was Editor in Chief of Nature Communications. She studied sex determination at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK, and Notch signalling in the vertebrate gut epithelium at the ICRF Laboratories (CRUK today), London. She is passionate about mentorship, research integrity as well as open and equitable research practice. She is the editorial champion of diversity, equality and inclusion at Springer Nature. She serves on the advisory board of the University of Oxford Centre for Personalised Medicine and the board of directors for GESDA. She is a member of the Strategic Council for Research Excellence, Integrity, and Trust and the Scientific Advisory Council for the UK Blavatnik Awards for Young Scientists. She is a fellow of the International Science Council. Magdalena is based in the London office.
m.skipper#nature.com*
Chief Biological, Clinical and Social Sciences Editor
Francesca Cesari, Dr. rer. nat., Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: overseeing editorial content and strategy, and team management.
Education: BSc, Università di Roma, La Sapienza; PhD, University of Tübingen; postdoctoral work, The Wellcome Trust/Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute, Cambridge.
f.cesari#nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Biomedicine, Genetics & Biotechnology
Victoria Aranda, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibility include: cancer, translational & clinical medicine, gene therapy, genome editing, biotechnology.
Education: BSc, Biochemistry, and PhD, Biochemistry, University of Navarra, Spain; postdoctoral work, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
v.aranda#us.nature.com*
Senior Editor
Darren Burgess, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: biotechnology, genomics & clinical research.
Education: MBiochem, Biochemistry, University of Oxford; PhD, Cancer Genetics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory School of Biological Sciences, New York; postdoctoral work, Institute of Cancer Research, London.
d.burgess#nature.com*
Senior Editor
George Caputa, PhD, Springer Nature, Germany
Areas of responsibility include: cellular & mitochondrial metabolism, organismal metabolism, environmental microbial metabolism, cardiovascular biology, physiology &therapy.
Education: BSc, Saint Louis University; PhD, Washington University in St. Louis; postdoctoral work, Max Planck Institute of Immunobiology and Epigenetics.
george.caputa#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Barbara Marte, Dr Phil, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: cancer, cell cycle.
Education: Diploma in Human Biology, University of Marburg; PhD, Cell Biology, University of Basel; postdoctoral work, Imperial Cancer Research Fund.
b.marte#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Michelle Trenkmann, Dr. sc. nat., Springer Nature, Germany | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: genetics, genomics & molecular evolution.
Education: Advanced degree in Biochemistry, University of Leipzig; PhD in Molecular Biology, University of Zurich; postdoctoral work, University College Dublin.
michelle.trenkmann#nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Neuroscience & Health
I-han Chou, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibility include: neuroscience (including sensory and motor systems, decision making, executive function) & health sciences.
Education: BA, Psychology, Harvard University; PhD, Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; postdoctoral work, University of California, San Francisco.
i.chou#us.nature.com*
Senior Editor
Noah Gray, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibility include: neuroscience (including neurodevelopment, psychiatric disease, cellular & molecular neuroscience, neuroscience resources).
Education: BSc, University of Notre Dame; PhD, Mayo Clinic and Graduate School; postdoctoral work, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and Janelia Farm Research Campus.
n.gray#us.nature.com*
Associate Editor
Jingyuan Xiao, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibilities include: global and public health
Education: BA, Psychology, BS Public Health, University of California, San Diego; MPH, Social and Behavioral Sciences, Yale School of Public Health; PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, Yale School of Public Health
jingyuan.xiao#us.nature.com*
Associate Editor
Elnaz Hozhabri, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibility include: neuroscience (including innate behaviors, learning & memory, brain-body circuits, injury & repair, neuroscience techniques).
Education: BS, University of Texas at Austin; PhD, New York University; postdoctoral work, New York University
elnaz.hozhabri#us.nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Biochemistry, Molecular & Cellular Biology
Angela K. Eggleston, PhD, Springer Nature, USA | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: DNA structure & metabolism, RNA structure & metabolism, protein folding, evolution & design.
Education: BSc, Microbiology, and MSc, Molecular Genetics, University of Notre Dame; PhD, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Northwestern University; postdoctoral work, Imperial Cancer Research Fund (Clare Hall Laboratories) and HHMI-Children's Hospital Boston.
a.eggleston#us.nature.com*
Senior Editor (Currently on leave)
Véronique Gebala, PhD, Springer Nature, Germany | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: developmental biology, stem cells, mechanobiology.
Education: BSc, Biology, and MSc, Cancer Biology, École Normale Supérieure de Cachan and Université Paris-Sud: PhD, Vascular Biology, University College London.
veronique.gebala#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Marie-Thérèse Heemels, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: neurodegeneration, ageing, general physiology.
Education: BSc and MSc, Free University Amsterdam; PhD, Netherlands Cancer Institute and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
t.heemels#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Bryden Le Bailly, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: chemical biology, ion channel biology, GPCRs, origin of life biochemistry.
Education: MSci, University of Bristol; PhD, University of Manchester; postdoctoral work, University of Manchester and University of Bristol.
bryden.lebailly#nature.com*
Locum Senior Editor
Robert Stephenson, PhD, Springer Nature, Japan | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: developmental biology, stem cells, mechanobiology, general physiology
Education: BSc Hons, University of Toronto; PhD, University of Toronto; postdoctoral work, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology, Kobe, Japan.
robert.stephenson#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Florian Ullrich, Dr. rer. nat., Springer Nature, Germany | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: RNA metabolism, membrane transport, enzymology, photosynthesis, synthetic biology.
Education: Diploma, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena; PhD, Biology, Freie Universität Berlin; postdoctoral work, Max-Delbruck-Centrum für Molekulare Medizin and Leibniz-Institut für Molekulare Pharmakologie Berlin.
florian.ullrich#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Jie Wang, PhD, Springer Nature, China | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: transcription, chromatin, epigenetics, signal transduction.
Education: BSc, Clinical Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine; PhD, Cell Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine; postdoctoral work, University of California Los Angeles.
jie.wang#nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Ecology, Evolution & Social Science
Mary Elizabeth Sutherland, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibility include: cognitive neuroscience, behavioural & social sciences (including psychology, sociology, computational social sciences, education, political science, science of science, science policy).
Education: B.A. Cornell University; PhD, McGill University; postdoctoral work, Universidad Catolica, Santiago, Chile.
maryelizabeth.sutherland#us.nature.com*
Senior Editor
Anna Armstrong, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: ecology, conservation biology, food systems, sustainability.
Education: BSc and PhD, University of York; postdoctoral work, Australian National University and University of York.
a.armstrong#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Henry Gee, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: evolutionary biology (including integrative & comparative biology), palaeontology, archaeology, evolutionary developmental biology, taxonomy & systematics, general zoology, botany.
Education: BSc, University of Leeds; PhD, University of Cambridge.
h.gee#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Yang Xia, PhD, Springer Nature, China | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: public economics, international economics, industrial economics, organizational economics, financial economics, and agricultural economics
Education: BSc, Economics, University of Leeds; MSc, Ecological Economics, University of Leeds; PhD, Ecological Economics, University of East Anglia, The United Kingdom.
yang.xia#nature.com*
Associate Editor
Kleopatra Leontidou, PhD, Springer Nature, Germany
Areas of responsibility include: basic ecology, environmental microbiology.
Education: Diploma, Biology, and PhD, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki; postdoctoral work Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and Rheinland-Pfälzische Technische Universität Kaiserslautern Landau.
kleopatra.leontidou#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Sebastián Villamizar-Santamaría, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Areas of responsibility include: sociology, urban science, geography, communication, criminology, political science, education, public policy, among other social sciences.
Education: BA, Sociology, Universidad del Rosario, MA, Geography, Universidad de los Andes, M. Phil and PhD, Sociology, City University of New York; postdoctoral work, City University of New York.
sebastian.villamizarsantamaria#us.nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Immunology, Microbiology & Plant Biology
Clare Thomas, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: virology.
Education: BSc, Biochemistry, University of Sheffield; PhD, Virology and Gene Therapy, University of Leeds; postdoctoral work, University of Manchester and Stanford University.
c.thomas#nature.com*
Consulting Editor
Susan Allison, PhD, Springer Nature, Australia
Education: BSc, University of Otago; PhD, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, UNSW; post-doctoral work, Lund University.
s.allison#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Zoltan Fehervari, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: immunology, microbiology.
Education: BSc, Zoology/Psychology, Reading University; MSc. Immunology, Imperial College; PhD, Cambridge University and GSK, Stevenage; postdoctoral work, Cambridge University and Kyoto University.
z.fehervari#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Sadaf Shadan, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: cell biology, plant biology.
Education: BSc, King's College London; PhD, University of Cambridge; postdoctoral work, University College London.
s.shadan#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Christina Tobin Kåhrström, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: microbiology.
Education: BSc, Biomedical Science, Dublin Institute of Technology; PhD, Microbiology, Uppsala University.
c.tobinkahrstrom#nature.com*
Senior Editor
Ursula Weiss, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: immunology.
Education: PhD, Biochemistry, Baylor College of Medicine, postdoctoral work, Immunology, Institute for Genetics, Cologne.
u.weiss#nature.com*
Chief Applied and Physical Sciences Editor
Karl Ziemelis, BA, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility: overseeing editorial content and strategy, and team management.
Education: BA, natural sciences, University of Cambridge.
karl.ziemelis#nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Chemistry, Materials and Energy
Claire Hansell, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: materials and chemistry.
Education: MA natural sciences & MSci chemistry, University of Cambridge; PhD polymer chemistry, University of Warwick.
claire.hansell#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Physical Sciences)
Liqian Wang, PhD, Springer Nature, China
Areas of responsibility include: biomedical engineering, materials and devices.
Education: PhD, Materials Science and Engineering, Università degli Studi di Roma Tor Vergata; postdoctoral fellows at Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics (Chinese Academy of Sciences) and Fudan University; visiting researcher, Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
liqian.wang#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Chemistry)
Bryden Le Bailly, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: organic and biological chemistry.
Education: MSci, University of Bristol; PhD, University of Manchester; post-doctoral work Universities of Manchester and Bristol.
bryden.lebailly#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Chemistry)
Magdalena Helmer, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: chemistry.
Education: Vordiplom, chemistry, University of Tübingen; MS, marine and atmospheric chemistry, University of Florida; PhD, environmental sciences, University of East Anglia.
m.helmer#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Material Sciences)
Kristina Kareh, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: materials science.
Education: MEng biomaterials and tissue Engineering, Imperial College London; PhD metallurgy and X-ray imaging, Imperial College London; postdoctoral work, Imperial College London.
Kristina.Kareh#nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Physics and Computing
Federico Levi, Dr. rer. nat., Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: pure and applied physics.
Education: MA physics, Università degli Studi di Milano; PhD theoretical quantum physics, University of Freiburg.
federico.levi#nature.com*
Associate Editor (Optics and Photonics)
Michela Picardi, PhD, Springer Nature, Germany
Areas of responsibility include: optics and photonics.
Education: MA physics, Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico II; PhD optics, King's College London; postdoctoral fellowship at the Institute for Photonic Sciences (ICFO), Barcelona.
Michela.Picardi#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Physics)
Tobias Rödel, PhD, Springer Nature, Germany | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: condensed matter and solid-state physics.
Education: MA nanostructure technology, Universität Würzburg; PhD solid state physics, Université Paris-Sud; postdoctoral work, University of Luxembourg
tobias.roedel#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Computing and Robotics)
Yann Sweeney, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: computing, robotics and computational sciences.
Education: BA theoretical physics, Trinity College Dublin; PhD computational neuroscience, University of Edinburgh; postdoctoral work, Imperial College London
yann.sweeney#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Electronic Engineering)
Stuart Thomas, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: electronic engineering and device physics.
Education: BEng (Hons) computer systems and electronic engineering, Swansea Metropolitan University; PhD solid state physics, Imperial College London; postdoctoral work Imperial College London; postdoctoral fellowships at National Cheng Kung University and National Tsing Hua University.
stuart.thomas#nature.com*
Deputy Editor, Earth Sciences and Astronomy
John VanDecar, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: geology, geophysics, and geochemistry of the solid Earth and terrestrial planets.
Education: BSc, geophysics, Texas A&M University; PhD, geophysics, University of Washington; postdoctoral fellowships at Utrecht University, and Carnegie Institution of Washington DC.
j.vandecar#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Environmental Sciences)
Juliane Mössinger, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: biogeochemical cycles, geomorphology, atmospheric chemistry and environmental science.
Education: BSc chemistry and environmental chemistry, University of Wales; MPhil and PhD, atmospheric chemistry, University of Cambridge; research fellowship, University of Cambridge.
j.mossinger#nature.com*
Senior Editor (Climate Sciences)
Michael White, PhD, Springer Nature, USA | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: climate sciences.
Education: BA, environmental science, University of Virginia; MS, forestry, University of Montana; PhD, remote sensing and ecological modeling; postdoctoral fellowship, University of Montana.
m.white#us.nature.com*
Senior Editor (Economics, Social Sciences)
Yang Xia, PhD, Springer Nature, China | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: socio-economics, climate policy, climate risk, environmental policy, sustainability and society.
Education: BSc, Economics, University of Leeds; MSc, Ecological Economics, University of Leeds; PhD, Ecological Economics, University of East Anglia, The United Kingdom.
yang.xia#nature.com*
Associate Editor (Astronomy and Astrophysics)
Urmila Chadayammuri, PhD, Springer Nature, Germany
Areas of responsibility include: astronomy, astrophysics and planetary science.
Education: MPhil & MA astronomy, Yale University; PhD astronomy, Yale University; Postdoctoral fellowships at the Harvard & Smithsonian Centre for Astrophysics and the Max Planck Institut für Astronomie.
urmila.chadayammuri#nature.com*
Nature Magazine
Chief Magazine Editor
Richard Webb, Dr. rer. nat., Springer Nature, UK
Richard joined Nature in July 2022 following 14 years at New Scientist, where he was a feature editor specializing in physical and environmental sciences, Chief Features Editor and latterly Executive Editor. Before that he was at Nature as a News & Views editor and worked as a particle physicist at CERN. He has an MSci degree in physics from the University of London (Imperial College) and a PhD in experimental particle physics from the University of Erlangen­-Nürnberg, Germany. He has overall responsibility for all Nature’s news, feature, opinion and analysis content, including all multimedia output.
richard.webb#nature.com*
News and Features
Chief News and Features Editor
Celeste Biever, MChem, Springer Nature, UK
Celeste joined Nature in 2014 after working at New Scientist and has master's and undergraduate degrees in chemistry from the University of Oxford and a post-graduate diploma in journalism from City University of London. She leads Nature's news and features teams.
celeste.biever#nature.com*
Bureau Chief (Europe)
Nisha Gaind, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Nisha has been with Nature since 2013, and moved into her current position as Europe Bureau Chief in July 2018. She has a MSci degree in astrophysics and physical chemistry from University College London. She leads Nature’s news coverage of Europe.
nisha.gaind#nature.com*
Locum Bureau Chief (Europe)
Emma Stoye, BA, Springer Nature, UK
Emma joined Nature in 2019. Before that she was a reporter and editor at Chemistry World, covering research, publishing, science policy and reviews. Emma has a degree in biological sciences from the University of Oxford.
Bureau Chief (Editorials, Africa and the Middle East)
Ehsan Masood, BSc, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Ehsan joined Nature in 2019 from the science policy magazine Research Fortnight. He has degrees in physics and in science communication, and currently edits Nature’s editorials pages, and well as overseeing news from Africa and the Middle East.
e.masood#nature.com*
Bureau Chief (Asia-Pacific)
Nicky Phillips, BSc, Springer Nature, Australia
Nicky oversees news coverage of the Asia-Pacific region. She joined Nature in 2017, having previously worked as a science journalist at Nature Index, the Sydney Morning Herald and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. She has degrees in science (physiology) and journalism.
nicky.phillips#nature.com*
Bureau Chief (Americas)
Lauren Wolf, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Lauren joined Nature in 2020 as Americas Bureau Chief, after 12 years at Chemical & Engineering News as a reporter and as head of the science team. Before becoming a journalist, Lauren carried out a postdoc at the US National Institute of Standards & Technology and received a PhD in chemistry from Boston University. She leads Nature’s news coverage of the Americas.
lauren.wolf#us.nature.com*
Senior Editor
Helen Pearson, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Helen has been writing and editing articles for Nature for more than 20 years, including 5 years leading the team as Chief Magazine Editor. She won Editor of the Year at the Association of British Science Writers awards in 2022 and currently edits content across the magazine. She has a degree in natural sciences from the University of Cambridge and a PhD in genetics. She writes her own articles and books, as well as teaching science writing at University College London.
h.pearson#nature.com*
Senior Editor (News and Research Highlights)
Traci Watson, BA, Springer Nature, USA
Traci joined Nature in 2017. She studied cell biology at Amherst College and science journalism at the University of California, Santa Cruz. During a stint as a daily newspaper reporter, she covered everything from NASA to terrorist attacks to pop stars. She now edits news stories and the Research Highlights section featuring research from all disciplines of science.
Chief Features Editor
Richard Monastersky, BA, Springer Nature, USA
Richard joined Nature in 2008 after stints at The Chronicle of Higher Education and Science News magazine. He commissions and edits features mainly in Earth and planetary science, physical science, evolution and ecology.
r.monastersky#us.nature.com*
Features Editor
Brendan Maher, BA, Springer Nature, USA
Brendan joined Nature in April 2009 after freelancing for the magazine for two years editing features and commentaries. He edits features across the life sciences, with a particular emphasis on diversity and social justice.
b.maher#us.nature.com*
Features Editor
Kerri Smith, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Kerri joined Nature in 2006 as an intern in the newly minted podcast department. She has a degree in human sciences and an MSc in neuroscience from the University of Oxford, as well as an MSc in science communication from Imperial College London. Her specialisms are biology, neuroscience, psychology and the social sciences.
k.smith#nature.com*
Features Editor
Richard Van Noorden, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Richard joined Nature in 2009 from Chemistry World. He has a master's degree in natural sciences from the University of Cambridge, and his interests include chemistry and materials, as well as scientific publishing, open science, research integrity and digital journalism. He was the UK’s Medical Journalists’ Association Editor of the Year in 2021.
r.vannoorden#nature.com*
Senior Reporter
Ewen Callaway, MS, Springer Nature, UK
Ewen joined Nature in August 2010 after 2 years at New Scientist as Boston-based biomedical reporter. He attended the science writing programme at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and earned a master’s degree in microbiology at the University of Washington. He covers the biological sciences, and in particular evolution, genetics, neuroscience, palaeontology, archaeology, molecular biology and COVID-19.
e.callaway#nature.com*
Senior Reporter (Physical Sciences)
Davide Castelvecchi, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Davide reports on physics, chemistry, cosmology, energy, mathematics and computer science — and especially all things black holes. He has been at Nature since 2012. Previously he was a physical sciences reporter at Science News and a senior editor at Scientific American. He has a PhD in mathematics from Stanford University and a degree in science writing from the University of California, Santa Cruz.
davide.castelvecchi#nature.com*
Reporter
Rachel Fieldhouse, BA/BSc, Springer Nature, Australia
Rachel joined Nature in 2025, after writing for Australian Doctor and OverSixty, and freelancing as a writer and sub-editor. She has a double degree in chemistry, linguistics and English from the University of Sydney, and covers topics including biological and physical sciences, medicine, and the Asia-Pacific region.
rachel.fieldhouse#nature.com*
Senior Reporter
Elizabeth Gibney, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Elizabeth joined Nature as a physical sciences reporter in 2013, after writing for Times Higher Education, Research Fortnight and Research Europe, and working as a staff writer at CERN, Europe’s high-energy physics laboratory. Elizabeth has a degree in natural sciences from the University of Cambridge and a MSc in science communication from Imperial College London. She covers physics, astronomy, chemistry, policy and artificial intelligence.
elizabeth.gibney#nature.com*
News Intern, Springer Nature, USA
Jenna Ahart
Jenna joined Nature in 2025 as a news intern for the US team. She has written for outlets including Science, Quanta, and MIT Technology Review. She studied journalism and astrophysics at George Washington University and completed her master's in science communication at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
jenna.ahart#us.nature.com*
News Intern, Springer Nature, UK
Katie Kavanagh
Katie joined Nature in 2025 as an intern reporter in the European news team, where she covers a broad range of topics. Prior to that she studied natural sciences at University College London.
katie.kavanagh#nature.com*
Reporter
Max Kozlov, BSc, Springer Nature, USA
Max joined Nature in 2021. Previously, Max wrote for Quanta Magazine, The Scientist, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and The Public's Radio. He studied cognitive neuroscience at Brown University. He covers biology and neuroscience and US science policy, particularly the NIH and FDA.
max.kozlov#us.nature.com*
Senior Reporter
Heidi Ledford, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Heidi writes about biology and the social sciences, and has a PhD from the University of California, Berkeley. Heidi has written for The Oregonian, edited for the Berkeley Science Review, and freelanced for a few other publications. Particular interests include medicine, CRISPR, cancer, plants, GM organisms, translational and clinical research, patents and COVID-19 drugs.
h.ledford#us.nature.com*
Senior Reporter
Smriti Mallapaty, MSc, Springer Nature, Australia
Smriti joined Nature in 2020, and covers the Asia-Pacific region. She has a master’s of science degree in environmental technology from Imperial College London, and reports on subjects including biological and environmental sciences, space, publishing and community in Asia and COVID-19.
Reporter
Miryam Naddaf, BSc, Springer Nature, UK
Miryam studied biomedical science at King’s College London, where she specialized in neuroscience and pharmacology. She trained as a research assistant at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology, and Neuroscience, and has worked as a freelance Arabic translator, interview coordinator and documentary presenter. She joined Nature’s news team in 2022.
Reporter (Life Sciences)
Mariana Pereira Lenharo, MA, Springer Nature, USA
Mariana joined Nature in 2023 as a life sciences reporter after freelancing for publications such as Scientific American, Undark and The New York Times magazine. In the past, she has covered science for the Brazilian news website G1 and the daily newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo. She holds a master’s degree in science journalism from Columbia University in New York City.
mariana.lenharo#us.nature.com*
Senior Reporter
Jeff Tollefson, BA, Springer Nature, USA
Jeff covers environmental science and public policy, including climate change and the associated issues of energy, economics and global development. He joined Nature in 2007 after stints at Congressional Quarterly and a Knight science journalism fellowship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Originally from Wyoming, he cut his teeth at daily newspapers in the West, including the Santa Fe New Mexican.
j.tollefson#us.nature.com*
Retained Correspondent
Alexandra Witze, BSc, Springer Nature, USA
Alex covers the Earth and planetary sciences, with a little dabbling in astronomy. She studied geology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and science communication at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Among other places she has worked as a journalist for Science News and the Dallas Morning News; she also ran Nature's US news operations from Washington DC between 2005 and 2010.
a.witze#us.nature.com*
Opinion (Books & Arts, Comment, Correspondence, Obituaries, World View)
Chief Opinion Editor
Joanne Baker, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Joanne joined Nature in 2007 from the journal Science. She has degrees in physics (MA, natural sciences, University of Cambridge), astrophysics (PhD, University of Sydney) and landscape architecture (MLA Greenwich University), and held postdocs at the University of Cambridge, University of California, Berkeley and University of Oxford. In 2019–20 she was a Radcliffe Fellow at Harvard University. She’s authored several books.
j.baker#nature.com*
Senior Opinion Editor
Jennifer Gardiner, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Jenny joined Nature’s opinion section in June 2023, from News and Views. She studied genetics at the University of Nottingham before doing a PhD in developmental genetics at King’s College London and a postdoctoral fellowship at the Institute of Cancer Research, London.
jennifer.gardiner#nature.com*
Senior Opinion Editor
Anne Pichon, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Anne received a broad training in chemistry at the National Graduate School of Chemistry in Montpellier, France, and completed MPhil and PhD degrees in inorganic and supramolecular chemistry at the Queen's University Belfast, UK. She joined Nature in June 2023 after 15 years as an editor at Nature Chemistry, based first in Tokyo and then London.
a.pichon#nature.com*
Senior Opinion Editor
Lucy Odling-Smee, PhD, Springer Nature, USA
Before joining Nature, Lucy studied natural sciences at the University of Cambridge and completed a PhD in evolutionary ecology at the University of Edinburgh.
l.odling-smee#nature.com*
Senior Opinion Editor
Ajai Sreevatsan, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Ajai Sreevatsan joined Nature in Jan 2024. He has a MSc in social data science from the University of Oxford and degrees in engineering from Anna University in Chennai, journalism from Northwestern University in Chicago and liberal studies from Ashoka university in Delhi. Ajai has also worked at the Wall Street Journal – Livemint and The Hindu newspapers.
Ajai.sreevatsan#nature.com*
News & Views
Chief Editor, News & Views and Research Briefings
Andrew Mitchinson, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: chemistry, materials science, geochemistry, climate science and biochemistry.
Education: BSc Hons, chemistry, University of Durham; PhD, chemistry, University of Newcastle upon Tyne.
Senior Editor (Research Briefings)
Natasha Bray, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Education: BSc Hons cognitive neuroscience and psychology with industrial experience, University of Manchester; PhD, neuroscience, University of Manchester.
Senior Editor (News & Views, Biological Sciences)
Holly Smith, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Areas of responsibility include: molecular biology, neuroscience, metabolism, developmental biology, stem cells, systems biology, genetics, genomics, epigenetics, psychology and social sciences.
Education: BSc Hons in Biomedical Science, University of Sheffield; PhD, Cellular Pharmacology, University of Cambridge.
Associate Editor (News & Views, Biological Sciences)
Mary Abraham, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Areas of responsibility include: archaeology, biotechnology, cancer, cell biology, ecology, evolution, immunology, medicine, microbiology, palaeontology and plant biology.
Education: BA Hons, MSci, natural sciences, University of Cambridge; PhD, developmental biology, Rockefeller University; postdoctoral fellowships, University of Oxford and Yale University.
Associate Editor (News & Views, Physics)
Katherine Skipper, PhD, Springer Nature UK
Areas of responsibility include: physics, astrophysics, computer science, Earth science, climate science.
Education: MPhys in Physics, University of Durham; PhD, Physics, University of Bristol.
Multimedia
Chief Multimedia Editor
Noah Baker, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Noah produces short films for Nature Video and also presents and creates audio content for the Nature Podcast. He joined Nature in 2013 after working on several independent documentary projects, for cinema and the web. Noah has a BSc in Zoology and an MSc In Science Media Production both from Imperial College London.
noah.baker#nature.com*
Senior Multimedia Editor
Shamini Bundell, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Shamini joined the Nature Multimedia team in 2015 after almost six years in television where she worked on science documentaries for the BBC and others. She now produces short form content for Nature Video and Nature Podcast. Shamini studied natural sciences at the University of Cambridge and then completed an MSc in Science Media Production at Imperial College London.
shamini.bundell#nature.com*
Senior Multimedia Editor
Benjamin Thompson, PhD, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Benjamin joined the Nature Multimedia team in 2017, prior to which he worked at the Microbiology Society and the Wellcome Trust. Benjamin was awarded a PhD in Microbiology from the University of East Anglia in 2010.
benjamin.thompson#nature.com*
Senior Multimedia Editor
Nick Petrić Howe, PhD, Springer Nature, UK
Nick hosts and produces audio content for the Nature Podcast. He joined Nature in 2019 after studying for a PhD, on the problems facing bees, at the University of Birmingham.
nick.howe#nature.com*
Senior Multimedia Editor
Dan Fox, MSci, Springer Nature, UK
Dan produces short films and audio for Nature. He joined the team in 2019 after stints making digial content for Asthma UK and BMJ. Dan has a MSci in Physics from Royal Holloway University of London.
dan.fox#nature.com*
Locum Multimedia Editor
Emily Bates, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Emily is a locum editor producing content for Nature Video. She has a BSc in neuroscience from King’s College London and an MSc in science media production from Imperial College London.
Emily.bates#springernature.com*
Careers
Managing Editor, Careers and Supplements
David Payne, PGDip, Springer Nature, UK
David joined Nature in October 2016 from The British Medical Journal, where he was online editor. His journalism career began in 1990 as a general news reporter on a local evening newspaper. He then worked for UK GP magazine Pulse, Nursing Times, and The Food Standards Agency, where he managed its website and print publications. David has a degree in English and a postgraduate diploma in journalism.
david.payne#nature.com
Chief Editor (Careers)
Jack Leeming, MChem, Springer Nature, UK
Jack joined Nature in 2015 and leads the editorial team responsible for Nature’s careers section in print and online. This includes news, features and opinion to help Nature's global community of working scientists make more informed decisions about their careers. He holds a master’s degree in chemistry from the University of Hull, UK.
jack.leeming#nature.com
Locum Senior Editor (Careers)
Kendall Powell, MSc, Springer Nature, USA
Kendall has been a freelance contributor to Nature’s careers and features sections since 2003. Her work has also appeared in the Los Angeles Times, The Washington Post, The Open Notebook and others. She joined the careers team in 2021 as lead editor for Nature’s careers feature section. Alongside other careers editor colleagues, Kendall also oversees Q&As and news. She holds a master’s degree in biomedical science from the University of California San Diego and a graduate certificate in science communication from the University of California Santa Cruz.
kendall.powell.consultant#springernature.com
Technology Editor
Jeffrey Perkel, PhD, Springer Nature, USA | ORCID
Jeffrey Perkel has been writing and editing stories about laboratory technology since 2000, first as senior editor for Technology at The Scientist magazine and then as a freelance science writer. His work has appeared in BioTechniques, Nature, Science, and various American Chemical Society journals, among other outlets. He has a doctorate in cell and molecular biology from the University of Pennsylvania, and did postdoctoral work at the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard Medical School. He joined Nature in 2016.
jeffrey.perkel#nature.com
Audience and Engagement
Chief Editor, Audience and Engagement
Anne Marie Conlon, BA, Springer Nature, UK
Anne Marie joined Nature in September 2021. She previously spent four years at New Scientist where she worked as the Deputy Digital Editor. Before that she held roles at The Guardian, The Independent and Hot Press magazine in Dublin. She has a BA in Journalism from Dublin City University.
Engagement Editor
Catriona Clarke, BSc, Springer Nature, UK
Catriona joined Nature in June 2023, and manages Nature's social media channels. Prior to this, she's worked for the Wellcome Sanger Institute, PLOS ONE, and Royal Society of Chemistry. She has a degree in Biochemistry from the University of Glasgow.
catriona.clarke#nature.com
Senior Editor (Nature Briefing)
Flora Graham, MSc, Springer Nature, UK | ORCID
Flora writes the daily Nature Briefing email, covering everything that matters in science, from Nature and beyond. Previously she was Digital Editor at New Scientist and a technology and physics reporter for the BBC, CBC and CNET. Flora has a BSc in Physics and English from the University of British Columbia and an MSc in science communication from Imperial College London.
briefing#nature.com or subscribe to the Briefing.
Associate Editor (Nature Briefing)
Jacob Smith, MSc, Springer Nature, UK
Jacob joined Nature in 2024 as an associate editor on Nature Briefing, he also writes Nature Briefing: Microbiology. Previously, he worked in the digital news team at Cancer Research UK. Jacob has a BSc in biochemistry from the University of Exeter and an MSc in science communication from Imperial College London.
jacob.smith#nature.com or subscribe to the Briefing.
Supplements
Chief Supplements Editor
Herb Brody, BSc, Springer Nature, USA
Herb joined Nature in 2010 as Supplements Editor. He has a BSc in physics from the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Previously, he was an editor at MIT's Technology Review magazine, which covers the societal, business, and policy impacts of scientific research and emerging technology.
Supplements Editor
Richard Hodson, MA, Springer Nature, UK
Richard commissions and edits content for the Nature Outlook & supplements. He joined Nature in 2015 after completing an MA in science journalism at City University London. Prior to that, he studied biomedical science at King’s College London, with particular focus on human physiology in extreme conditions.
Associate Supplements Editor
Alexia Austin, MA, Springer Nature, UK
Alexia joined Nature in 2024 after stints as a NewsCorp journalist and science communicator in Australia. She holds a dual degree in science and journalism from the University of Queensland, where she conducted research into the role of defective glucose metabolism in motor neurone disease.
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
This journal
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited