There's One New England Town I Visit Every Fall: Stowe, Vermont - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I've lived in New England my whole life. There's one town in this region I swear by visiting every fall.
By
Morgan Rizzo
There's no better place to spend a fall weekend than Stowe, Vermont.
AndTheyTravel/Shutterstock
2025-09-23T13:00:54Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I love visiting Stowe, Vermont, every fall for leaf-peeping, maple-flavored treats, and corn mazes.
The New England town is about three hours away from Boston and four from my home in Rhode Island.
I always tell first-time visitors to take a gondola ride and eat at von Trapp Brewing Bierhall.
When some people think about Vermont, they might picture skiing down picturesque slopes and unwinding their tired legs after a long day on the mountain … only to do it all over again the next day.
As a lifelong New Englander, though, I believe that the time before the snowy season is often overlooked. I prefer to head up north when the leaves are changing from green to fiery shades of red, orange, and yellow.Once I'm in the Green Mountain State, my favorite town is Stowe, a dreamy hub for leaf-peeping, everything maple-flavored, and great autumn vibes.
Stowe is a quick trip from other parts of the Northeast
One of my favorite pit stops is the Vermont Country Store.
Morgan Rizzo
Located in northern Vermont, Stowe is the perfect escape for a romantic getaway or group trip, especially if you're on the East Coast.For example, it's just a three-hour drive from Boston and six hours from New York City. The town is also less than an hour from Burlington International Airport.I live four hours away in Rhode Island and prefer driving so I can stop at cute pit stops throughout Vermont.
My personal favorite is the Vermont Country Store in Rockingham. This iconic gift shop sells nostalgic penny candy, local cheeses from nearby farms, and — of course — the best maple syrup.My perfect weekend includes a gondola ride, a corn maze, and a downtown stroll
You can't come to Stowe without taking a scenic gondola ride.
Morgan Rizzo
Situated at the bottom of Mount Mansfield, Stowe has a quaint downtown, perfect for strolling the streets with a hot pumpkin latte in hand. There's no shortage of cute shops and cozy cafés.The town center is walkable, but Stowe's other attractions — such as the famous Gondola Skyride and my favorite corn maze — are a quick drive away.
Just a few miles from Stowe's downtown, the Percy Farm Corn Maze allows groups to get lost in the rows of corn. If you're lucky, you'll even see some baby cows grazing.I also firmly believe that a fall trip isn't complete without a red gondola ride up the mountain. Sitting back and taking in the kaleidoscope of colorful fall foliage while gliding through the air is truly unlike anything else.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The peak of the mountain provides the perfect photo op. Once you're at the top, swing by the concessions stand for a waffle covered in chocolate syrup.
My favorite restaurant is the iconic von Trapp Brewing Bierhall
Stowe is home to my favorite place for German sausages.
Morgan Rizzo
After exploring the top of Mount Mansfield and soaking in the views, it's time to decide what's for lunch.The von Trapp Brewing Bierhall, also outside the town center, offers quality brews and Austrian-influenced dishes — and yes, it's run by a member of the von Trapp family who inspired "The Sound of Music."I love the pretzels with house mustard, which is also available in cute mason jars for purchase in their gift shop. Additionally, its bratwurst, knackwurst, and bauernwurst with all the fixings is the perfect entrée to share if you've never tried German sausages.
It's easy to access other quaint, nearby towns, such as Killington and Waterbury
Whenever I come to Vermont, I also swing by Killington.
Morgan Rizzo
One of the best parts of Stowe is its proximity to other postcard-worthy fall destinations.Only 15 minutes away in Waterbury Center, Cold Hollow Cider Mill is a historic dairy farm that's been owned by the same family for generations. Browsing the store's aisles will leave you hungry as you watch the team press apples and fry doughnuts.Drive another 10 minutes south, and you can indulge in Vermont flavors at Ben & Jerry's and Cabot Creamery in Waterbury. Pro tip: Make sure to book a reservation in advance for the factory tour at Ben & Jerry's, as it sells out fast.
If you're open to venturing a little further, about an hour south of Waterbury is Killington, a famed ski town that's beautiful in the fall. Here, you can take another gondola ride up Killington Peak at Killington Ski Resort and enjoy a cocktail at the top.For a romantic dinner, visit the Foundry at Summit Pond — I love its intimate s'mores dessert, which is served alongside a small fire to roast at the table.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account