The 5 Best Pressure Washers of 2025 | Reviews by WirecutterAdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTWirecutterWirecutterSkip To ContentHow can we help?Help me decide on...Show me the research on...How can we help?WirecutterWirecutterLog inAccountHome & GardenVacuums, Cleaning, & Laundry Vacuum Cleaners Vacuum cleaners Upright vacuums Cordless vacuums Robot vacuums Handheld vacuums Hardwood floor vacuums Vacuums for pet hair Car vacuums Mops & Cleaners Wet mops Portable carpet & upholstery cleaners Carpet cleaners Wet/dry vacs Brooms, dustpans, & dust mops Surface cleaners & disinfectants Laundry Washers & dryers Compact washers & dryers Irons Ironing boards Clothing steamers Laundry detergents Stain removersBathroom Toilet Toilets Bidets Toilet papers Toilet brushes Toilet plungers Squatty potties Shower Shower heads Shower curtains Shower caddies Shower mats Bathroom Bathroom scales Bath towels Bath mats Grab barsGarden & Outdoors Gardening & Lawn Garden hoses Hose nozzles Gardening gloves Garden pruners Gifts for gardeners Lawn mowers Robot lawn mowers Reel mowers Sprinklers Smart sprinkler timers Maintenance Leaf blowers Snow blowers Pressure washers Chainsaws String trimmers Snow shovels Wet/dry vacs Patio Patio furniture Outdoor sofas & chairs Patio umbrellas Patio heaters Smokeless fire pits Mosquito repellents for yardsHeating, Cooling, & Air Quality Heating Space heaters Heat pumps Cooling Air conditioners Portable air conditioners Ductless air conditioners Fans Cordless fans Smart thermostats Air Quality Air purifiers Humidifiers Dehumidifiers Home air quality monitors Water Quality Water filter pitchers Under‑sink water filters Faucet‑mounted water filters Water quality test kitsHome & Decor Decor Area rugs Rug pads Removable wallpapers Throw blankets Essential oil diffusers Scented candles Jewelry boxes & organizers Window Treatments Curtains Blackout curtains Blackout shades Furniture Sofas Sleeper sofas Massage chairs Dining tables Lighting Floor lamps Desk lamps Bedside lamps All HomeHome Improvement Tools Drills Multi‑tools Stud finders Screwdrivers Basic toolkits Toolboxes Ladders Storage & Organization Storage containers Shoe racks Hangers Electric LED light bulbs Surge protectors Extension cords Pest Control Roach killers Ant killers Mousetraps Mosquito repellents for yards Wasp & hornet sprays Bug‑killing gearHome Security & Safety Security Systems & Cameras Home security systems Indoor security cameras Outdoor security cameras Doorbell cameras Locks Electronic keypad door locks Smart locks Door locks Safety Basic smoke alarms Smart smoke alarms Fire extinguishers Flashlights Emergency Preparedness Emergency preparedness supplies Emergency weather radios Portable generators All Home Security & SafetyOffice Printers All‑in‑one printers Home printers Laser printers Monitors Monitors 4K monitors 27‑inch monitors Portable monitors Office Essentials Webcams Office headsets Laptop stands Monitor arms Label makers Document Security Paper shredders Fireproof document safes Stationery Pens Notebooks & notepads Planners Office Furniture Standing desks Office chairs Ergonomic seat cushions All OfficeSleep Mattresses Mattresses Mattresses for side sleepers Mattresses for back pain Memory foam mattresses Cheap mattresses Hybrid mattresses Innerspring mattresses Air mattresses Mattress toppers Bedding Sheets Cotton sheets Comforters Duvet covers Pillows Pillows Pillows for side sleepers Memory foam pillows Bedroom Modern bed frames Platform bed frames Nightstands Blankets Weighted blankets White noise machines Alarm clocks Sunrise alarm clocks All SleepKitchenLarge Appliances Fridges Refrigerators French door refrigerators Side‑by‑side refrigerators Garage refrigerators Counter‑depth refrigerators Wine coolers & fridges Freezers Upright freezers Chest freezers Stoves, Ranges, & Ovens Electric stoves & ranges Gas stoves & ranges Slide‑in electric ranges Slide‑in gas ranges High‑end ranges Induction cooktops Wall ovens Dishwashers Dishwashers All Large AppliancesSmall Appliances Small Appliances Microwaves Food processors Toasters Electric kettles Portable induction cooktops Mini fridges Countertop ice makers Stand mixers Juicers Blenders Blenders Personal blenders Immersion blenders Specialty Ice cream makers Soda makers Waffle makers Pizza ovens Air Fryers & Toaster Ovens Air fryers Air fryer toaster ovens Toaster ovens Cookers Rice cookers Pressure cookers Slow cookers All Small AppliancesCooking & Baking Cookware & Bakeware Nonstick pans Cookware sets Stainless steel pans Cast iron skillets Dutch ovens Woks Induction cookware Pizza stones & baking steels Baking sheets Mixing bowls Tools Meat thermometers Cutting boards Kitchen scales Oven mitts & pot holders Vacuum sealers Pepper mills Spatulas Knives Chef's knives Knife sets Steak knife sets Serrated bread knives Paring knives Knife sharpenersCoffee & Tea Coffee Makers Coffee makers Drip coffee makers Single‑serve coffee makers Cheap coffee makers Cold‑brew coffee makers Espresso Machines Espresso machines Nespresso machines Coffee Gear Coffee grinders French presses Pour‑over coffee gear Milk frothers Tea Electric kettles Teas All Coffee & TeaFood & Drinks Pantry Olive oils Instant noodles Canned tomatoes Tinned fish Peanut butters Nut‑free seed butters Potato chips Boxed cake mixes Boxed mac and cheese Refrigerator American cheeses Ketchups Butters BBQ sauces Yogurts Freezer Vegan ice creams Vanilla ice creams Frozen pizzas Drinks Blanco tequilas Vodkas Gins Hard seltzers Nonalcoholic drinks Nonalcoholic wines Wine clubs All Food & DrinksDining, Entertaining, & Grilling Tableware Flatware Dinnerware sets Steak knife sets Drinking glasses Cloth napkins Tablecloths Tapered candles Outdoor dinnerware Wine & Bar Wine glasses Corkscrews Wine coolers & fridges Cocktail barware Dining Tables & Seating Dining tables Folding tables Folding chairs Patio furniture Grilling Gas grills Charcoal grills Pellet smoker grills Portable grills Outdoor griddles Grill tools & accessories All Dining & EntertainingSupplies Storage Food storage containers Dry food storage containers Lunch boxes Cleaning Dish racks Kitchen towels Dish soaps Dishwasher detergents Waste Kitchen trash cans Compost bins Food recyclersHealth & LifestyleFitness Exercise Treadmills Under‑desk treadmills Exercise bikes Rowing machines Adjustable dumbbells Yoga mats Massage guns Gym bags Running headphones Workout headphones Trackers Fitness trackers GPS running watches Bikes & Scooters Hybrid bikes Electric scooters Ebikes Biking Gear Bike helmets Bike lights Bike locks Bike phone mounts Rear bike racks Bike pumps Bike storage ideas Car bike racks All FitnessHealth Medical Blood pressure monitors Thermometers Heating pads Pill boxes Compression socks Over‑the‑counter hearing aids Accessibility & Aging Walkers Medical alert systems Adult diapers Incontinence underwear Grabber tools Mental Health Meditation apps Light therapy lamps All HealthPersonal Care Skin Care & Sunscreen Sunscreens Face sunscreens Moisturizers Body lotions Vitamin C serums Retinols Exfoliants Korean skin care products Facial cleansers Red light devices Hydration Water bottles Travel mugs Dental Electric toothbrushes Water flossers Menstruation Period underwear Menstrual cups & discs Adult & Sex Vibrators Anal toys Condoms Lube Portable vaporizers Cannabis grindersBeauty & Hair Beauty Lip balms Concealers Eyeliners Mascaras Drugstore makeup Makeup brushes Makeup removers Hair Removal & Shaving Electric razors Beard trimmers Pubic hair trimmers Hair clippers Hair Hair dryers Shampoo bars Dry shampoosOutdoors Outdoors Bug repellents Coolers Umbrellas Binoculars Ski goggles Apparel Rain jackets Down jackets UPF clothing Camping Camping tents Sleeping bags Sleeping pads Camping chairs Hiking Hiking boots Hiking socks Trekking poles Filtered water bottles Beach Beach umbrellas & shades Beach bags Beach towels Safety Portable generators Pocket knives Headlamps Hand warmers FlashlightsTravel Luggage Checked luggage Duffel bags Garment bags Underseat luggage & personal‑item bags Carry‑on luggage Hard‑shell carry‑on luggage Carry‑on travel backpacks Travel backpacks Packing Toiletry bags Packing cubes Packable daypacks Gear Travel gear Travel pillows Sleep masks Plug adapters Luggage tagsHobbies Hobbies Pickleball paddles Drones DNA testing kits Telescopes Reading lights Electric scooters Language learning apps Music & Instruments Beginner digital pianos Beginner ukuleles Art & Design 3D printers 3D pens Drawing tablets Sewing machines Colored pencils Soldering irons Photo Photo printers Instant photo printers Online photo printing services Photo book services Digital photo frames Cameras Instant cameras Mirrorless cameras Point‑and‑shoot camerasGames & Puzzles Board & Card Games Board games Two‑player board games Solo board games Beginner board games for adults Strategy board games Kids board games Card games Video Gaming Gaming consoles Handheld gaming consoles VR headsets Gaming laptops Gaming mice Gaming monitors Graphics cards Gaming chairs Lego Lego sets for adults Lego sets for kids Puzzles Speed cubes All Games & PuzzlesPets Dogs Dog leashes Dog harnesses Dog beds Dog crates Dog DNA tests Dog nail grinders Dog jackets & raincoats Cats Cat litters Litter boxes Automatic cat litter boxes Cat litter mats Cat scratchers Cat beds New cat checklist Home Pet cameras Water fountains Automatic feeders All PetsTechElectronics & Networking Networking Wi‑Fi mesh‑networking kits Routers Modems Wi‑Fi extenders Digital Storage External hard drives NAS devices External SSDs Batteries & Charging Portable chargers Lightning cables Portable power stations Rechargeable batteries Uninterruptible power supplies Surge protectors Extension cords Electric vehicle chargers Wireless Charging Wireless chargers Apple charging stations USB‑C USB phone chargers USB‑C cables & adapters USB‑C laptop chargers USB‑C hubs All ElectronicsPhones, Tablets, & Smartwatches Phones Android phones Budget Android phones iPhones iPhone cases iPhone 16 cases iPhone screen protectors Cell phones for older adults Car phone mounts Cell phone plans Tablets Tablets Android tablets iPads iPad keyboard cases iPad Pro keyboard cases iPad Pro cases iPad styluses E‑readers E‑readers Smartwatches For Android phones For iPhonesComputers Laptops Laptops Chromebooks MacBooks Business laptops Laptops for college students Laptops under $500 Computers All‑in‑one computers Mini desktop PCs Monitors Monitors 4k monitors 24‑inch monitors 27‑inch monitors Ultrawide monitors Portable monitors Accessories Wireless mice Security keys Keyboards Keyboards Wireless keyboards Mechanical keyboards Ergonomic keyboards Gaming keyboards Software Password managers VPNs Free VPNsAudio Speakers Bluetooth speakers Portable bluetooth speakers Surround‑sound speakers Computer speakers Outdoor speakers Multiroom wireless speakers Smart speakers Soundbars Headphones Headphones Over‑ear headphones Noise‑cancelling headphones Sleep headphones Bone‑conduction headphones Earbuds Wireless earbuds Wired earbuds Workout earbuds Home Audio Turntables & record players AV receivers Stereo amps & receivers USB audio interfaces All AudioVideo TVs TVs OLED TVs 4K TVs LCD/LED TVs 32‑inch TVs 40‑ to 49‑inch TVs TV wall mounts Gaming TVs Home Theater Streaming devices 4K Blu‑ray players HDMI video transmitters HDTV antennas Soundbars Projectors Projectors Portable mini projectors Budget projectors Projector screens Outdoor projectorsCameras & Photo Cameras Instant cameras Mirrorless cameras Point‑and‑shoot cameras Dash cams Camera Accessories Smartphone Photography iPhone photo lenses Smartphone tripods Smartphone gimbals Photo Holiday photo cards Photo printers Instant photo printers Online photo printing services Photo book services Digital photo framesSmart Home Indoor Plug‑in smart outlets Smart thermostats Smart window shades & blinds Smart LED light bulbs In‑wall smart light switches & dimmers Smart water‑leak detectors Smart smoke alarms Smart locks Smart speakers Outdoor Smart outdoor lighting Smart sprinkler timers Smart garage door openers Security Systems & Cameras Home security systems Outdoor security cameras Indoor security cameras Smart doorbell cameras All Smart HomeBaby & KidPregnancy & Nursing Pregnancy Pregnancy tests Body pillows Nursing & Pumping Breast pumps Wearable breast pumps Pumping bras Nursing bras Nursing pillows Bottles & Formula Baby bottles Bottle warmers Baby formulas All Pregnancy & NursingBaby Sleep Bassinets & co‑sleepers Cribs Crib mattresses Baby monitors Baby swaddles Carry Baby carriers Baby wraps & slings Diapering & Bath Diapers Cloth diapers Diaper pails Diaper bags Baby bathtubs & bath seats Baby care essentials Home Safety Baby‑proofing tools Baby gates Car Seats Infant car seats Convertible car seats Travel car seats Seats Baby bouncers & rockers Baby swings High chairsClothing & Health Clothing Kids pajamas Kids underwear Kids beachwear Kids rain and snow boots Kids sandals Health Kids electric toothbrushes ThermometersSchool & Tech Backpacks Kids backpacks High school & college backpacks Lunch & Hydration Kids lunch boxes Kids water bottles Food thermoses Nonplastic plates and cups School Supplies Pencils for schoolwork Mechanical pencils Pens Notebooks & notepads Planners Kids labels Tech First phones for kids Smartwatches for kids Apps for managing kids' phones Kids tablets Kids headphones All SchoolToys Indoor Toys Lego sets Dolls Kids board games Bath toys Toy subscription boxes Craft subscription boxes Outdoor Toys Scooters Balance bikes First pedal bikes Kids bike helmets Tricycles Collapsible folding wagons Sleds Trampolines All ToysTravel Car Seats Infant car seats Convertible car seats Travel car seats Booster car seats Strollers Strollers Double strollers Jogging strollers Travel strollers Umbrella strollers Wagons Collapsible folding wagons Stroller wagons Travel Kids bike seats Kids travel gearStyleApparel Tops Men’s button‑up shirts Men’s white t‑shirts Women’s white t‑shirts Cashmere sweaters Thermal underwear Pants Men’s jeans Women’s jeans Leggings Rain pants Jackets Rain jackets Down jackets Insulated vests Men's suits Swimwear Women’s swimsuits Kids Kids pajamas Kids underwear All StyleUnderwear & Sleep Underwear Bras Women’s underwear Period underwear Boxer briefs Sleep Robes Pajamas Slippers Sleep masksShoes Boots Winter boots Rain boots Hiking boots Sneakers Running shoes White sneakers Seasonal Sandals Water shoes Ice cleats for shoes Socks Compression socks Hiking socks No‑show socksBags & Accessories Bags Tote bags Laptop tote bags Messenger bags Fanny packs Briefcases Backpacks Laptop backpacks High school & college backpacks Kids backpacks Bag Accessories Slim wallets Accessories Umbrellas Black tights Shapewear Hair ties & clips Glasses Cheap sunglasses Blue‑light blocking glasses Online prescription glassesGiftsGifts for Grown-Ups For Occasions Housewarming gifts Anniversary gifts Retirement gifts Birthday gifts for her Gifts for coworkers Gifts for new moms Bridal shower gifts Flower delivery Gift baskets Photo gifts For Loved Ones Gifts for boyfriends Gifts for girlfriends Gifts for moms Gifts for dads Gifts for grandparents Gifts for someone who has everything Under Budget Gifts under $25 Gifts under $50 Gifts under $100 All Gifts for Grown‑UpsGifts for Kids Ages Younger Than 6 Gifts for infants Gifts for 1‑year‑olds Gifts for 2‑year‑olds Gifts for 3‑year‑olds Gifts for 4‑year‑olds Gifts for 5‑year‑olds Gifts for 6‑year‑olds Ages 7 & Up Gifts for 7‑year‑olds Gifts for 8‑year‑olds Gifts for 9‑year‑olds Gifts for 10‑year‑olds Gifts for tweens Gifts for teens All Gifts for KidsGifts to Give Tech Digital photo frames Instant cameras Instant photo printers Turntables & record players Drones Massage guns VR headsets Karaoke machines 3D pens Games Board games Two‑player board games Board games for kids & families Card games DNA Test Kits DNA testing kits Dog DNA tests Everything Else Smokeless fire pits Mug warmers Smart bird feeders Disposable camerasDeals Deals by Retailer Apple deals Best Buy deals Target deals Walmart dealsPodcastDealsWe independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more›BROWSESections in this articleWhy you should trust usWho this is forHow we picked and testedBest overall pressure washer: Ryobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Electric Pressure WasherRunner-up: DeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure WasherBest budget pressure washer: Sun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure WasherBest portable pressure washer: Ryobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure WasherBest stowable pressure washer: DeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure WasherWhat about cordless pressure washers?What to look forward toThe competitionHomeCleaningThe Best Pressure WasherUpdated May 29, 2025Photo: Doug MahoneyBy Doug MahoneyDoug Mahoney is a writer covering home-improvement topics, outdoor power equipment, bug repellents, and (yes) bidets.Blasting years of mildew off a piece of patio furniture provides a level of satisfaction that is attainable only with a pressure washer.After more than 100 hours of research and years of testing and using pressure washers to clean cars, outdoor chairs, and more, we found that the best one for most homeowners is the Ryobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Pressure Washer.Everything we recommendTop pickThe best pressure washerRyobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Pressure WasherWith extra-large wheels, a long hose, a high-end induction motor, and a well-designed GFCI plug, this Ryobi model is the most user-friendly electric pressure washer.$299 from The Home DepotRunner-upSimilar benefits, minor inconveniencesDeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure WasherThis DeWalt model is similar to our top pick from Ryobi in power and usability, and it has a broader selection of nozzles and wider tires. But the cord wrap is frustrating.$229 from The Home Depot$329 from AmazonBudget pickA good cleaner with fewer featuresSun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure WasherThis less expensive model cleans comparably, but because it lacks several standout features, it’s much less convenient to use.$169 from Amazon$199 from The Home Depot$169 from WalmartBest for...More portability, less powerRyobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure WasherThis Ryobi model doesn’t clean as quickly as the others, but its small size and top handle make it portable and easy to store.$149 from The Home DepotBest for...The easiest to stow awayDeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure WasherThis DeWalt model isn’t as powerful as some other pressure washers, but with its unique shape and smart wand, hose, and cord storage, it’s the easiest one to stow away.$299 from Amazon$299 from The Home Depot$352 from WalmartTop pickThe best pressure washerRyobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Pressure WasherWith extra-large wheels, a long hose, a high-end induction motor, and a well-designed GFCI plug, this Ryobi model is the most user-friendly electric pressure washer.$299 from The Home DepotAll the electric pressure washers (aka power washers) cleaned well in our tests, but the Ryobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Pressure Washer stood out for its durable motor, longer hose, larger wheels, better-designed cord, and lengthier warranty coverage in comparison with the competition.The quiet-running brushless induction motor of the RY142500 should last for years, and in our tests the machine’s heft helped make it particularly hard to tip over, even when we were forcefully tugging on the hose. The RY142500 usually costs a little more than other pressure washers, but if you plan to use it three or more times a year, it’s the best value. This is a more powerful version of our previous pick, the Ryobi RY142300 2300 PSI Brushless Electric Pressure Washer, which has been discontinued.Runner-upSimilar benefits, minor inconveniencesDeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure WasherThis DeWalt model is similar to our top pick from Ryobi in power and usability, and it has a broader selection of nozzles and wider tires. But the cord wrap is frustrating.$229 from The Home Depot$329 from AmazonIf the Ryobi RY142500 is not available, we also like the DeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure Washer. Similar to the Ryobi model in its body design, brushless motor, and overall power and usability, this DeWalt pressure washer also has some advantages: It comes with two additional nozzles, a detergent tank that is easier to monitor and empty, and wide pneumatic tires that can navigate more easily across bumpy lawns. But the holder for the spray wand is ineffective, and this model is usually more expensive than the Ryobi pressure washer.Budget pickA good cleaner with fewer featuresSun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure WasherThis less expensive model cleans comparably, but because it lacks several standout features, it’s much less convenient to use.$169 from Amazon$199 from The Home Depot$169 from WalmartIf you have a smaller budget or plan to use your pressure washer only once or twice a year, we like the Sun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure Washer. It costs less than the Ryobi RY142500 and cleans about the same. But like most comparably priced models, it has a shorter hose, a lower-quality motor, smaller wheels, a shorter warranty, and a design that’s far easier to tip over. Compared with the other budget models we tried, it has a wider selection of spray nozzles and a tougher metal spray wand, plus convenient hose and cord storage.Best for...More portability, less powerRyobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure WasherThis Ryobi model doesn’t clean as quickly as the others, but its small size and top handle make it portable and easy to store.$149 from The Home DepotIf you’re short on storage and you don’t mind carrying a pressure washer around, we also like the Ryobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure Washer. It’s much smaller than the other models we tested and has less oomph, but it can still handle most jobs (they might just take longer). It has wheels and a retractable handle, but weighing a little over 20 pounds, it’s compact enough for you to carry it as you would a duffel bag. This pressure washer has the same long hose as our main pick, too, but it lacks that model’s high-end induction motor and some of the other, finer details.Best for...The easiest to stow awayDeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure WasherThis DeWalt model isn’t as powerful as some other pressure washers, but with its unique shape and smart wand, hose, and cord storage, it’s the easiest one to stow away.$299 from Amazon$299 from The Home Depot$352 from WalmartIf easy storage is your top priority, we recommend the stowable, stackable DeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure Washer. Its wand breaks down into three parts that are kept in an internal storage compartment, and the hose and cord are tucked behind the outer roll cage, one on each side. It’s small enough to carry around, and its retractable luggage handle and small onboard wheels help it roll more effectively than most. The DeWalt DWPW2100 is comparable to the Ryobi RY1419MTVNM in power, but it costs about twice as much, so the efficient storage comes at a price premium.Back to topThe researchWhy you should trust usI’ve been reviewing tools and garage gear since 2007, and I spent 10 years in the building trades constructing high-end homes in the Boston area. For Wirecutter, I’ve written guides to lawn mowers, string trimmers, leaf blowers, and snow blowers, so I’m very familiar with the ins and outs of residential lawn and yard equipment. For this guide, I spent roughly 50 hours reading every pressure washer article I could find, looked over hundreds of customer reviews at various retailer sites, and spoke with a pressure washer expert who, at the time of our interview, had been involved with these machines for 18 years.Who this is for It’s a brick, douse! Photo: Dan FrakesA pressure washer makes fast work of big cleaning projects (and small ones, too). Because water sprays from a washer’s nozzle with such intensity, it can lift up and remove dirt, mildew, and grime that a regular garden hose simply can’t handle. Cleanup jobs that would normally take 20 to 30 minutes with a garden hose and a sponge or wire brush take a fraction of the time with a pressure washer. During our testing, we cleaned a manure-covered wheelbarrow in a matter of minutes, and a set of ancient Adirondack chairs took maybe three or four minutes apiece. You get better results for less work, and the benefits increase as the jobs get bigger.But you might not need to own one full time. Most rental centers have pressure washers available by the day or hour, so if you’re cleaning your siding once every two years, there’s no sense in buying one just to have it take up space in your garage. Once you start using it more than that—say, a couple of times a year—owning one begins to make sense. We checked a few rental centers around the country and found that the per-week rental charge was typically the cost of a new washer.How we picked and tested The pressure washers we tested in 2019 (from left): Kärcher K4, Ryobi RY142300, AR Blue Clean AR383, Sun Joe SPX3000, Ryobi RY141900, Ryobi RY803001. Photo: Doug MahoneyAn electric pressure washer offers the best combination of power and convenience. Electric washers are not as powerful as gas washers, but they have plenty of strength for normal around-the-house jobs. They’re also cheaper and much easier to deal with: They need almost no maintenance, they start with the flip of a switch, and they’re simple to store in the offseason.We’ve recommended a gas pressure washer in the past, and we’ve had one at our testing site for years, but over time we’ve realized that we simply don’t ever use it. A nice electric model, like our top pick, can handle most cleaning jobs. Electric washers take longer to clean an area, but we’d rather spend more time cleaning than deal with oil, fuel, exhaust, maintenance, off-season storage, and the other inconveniences of owning a gas engine.Cleaning power is more than just a number. The capability of a pressure washer is determined by its pressure (measured in pounds per square inch, or psi) and flow (measured in gallons per minute, or gpm). “The psi pushes the organic matter from the surface, and the gpm carries it away,” explained Jamey Kramaric, who once ran PressureWashr.com. He told us the sweet spot for an electric washer’s pressure is in the 1,800 to 2,000 psi range, with a gpm volume of about 1.3 to 1.5. Multiplying these two numbers gives you what the pressure washer industry calls the cleaning units, or CU, of the washer, which is the most accurate way to compare how two washers perform against one another. Cleaning this wheelbarrow with a pressure washer took only a minute or two. Using a garden hose would have taken much longer and required scrubbing. Photos: Doug MahoneyHow you use the washer also affects how well it cleans. As Kramaric explained, “A little trick is to remember moving 2x further away will 1/2 the force the surface feels.” So just moving the nozzle lets you control the pressure. The weaker pressure washers can still get a lot clean, but with one of those models you need to do the job with the spray tip right up against the surface you’re spraying.Induction motors are better than universal motors. An electric pressure washer with an induction motor is a little more expensive, but as Kramaric writes in an article comparing the two styles, “They are also more rugged, quieter and will have a longer lifespan.” In our testing, the induction motors emitted more of a humming, in contrast to the whine of the universal motors. Wheel size was a very important criterion for us. Washers with larger wheels, such as the Ryobi RY142300 (right), are much easier to move across lawns and up steps than those with smaller wheels, such as the AR Blue Clean AR383 (left) and Sun Joe SPX3000 (middle). Photo: Doug MahoneyConvenience features are very important. We’ve learned to seek out models that have big wheels, metal spray wands, and effective hose and cord storage. These are the telltale signs of a tool that is likely to be easy to use and durable, and one that won’t cause additional frustrations. They do add cost, though: Basic models with minimal features and universal motors cost as little as $150, but more feature-laden washers with heavy-duty induction motors start at around $250 and top out around $400.We preferred metal wands (top) over plastic ones (bottom). They’re more durable, and it’s easier to get additional accessories. Photo: Doug MahoneyThis wheelbarrow, caked in cow manure, hadn’t been cleaned in years but was nearly spotless after five or so minutes with the DeWalt DWPW2400 pressure washer. Photo: Doug MahoneyThis wheelbarrow, caked in cow manure, hadn’t been cleaned in years but was nearly spotless after five or so minutes with the DeWalt DWPW2400 pressure washer. Photo: Doug MahoneyA pressure washer can even breathe life into patio furniture that hasn’t been cleaned in over a decade. Cleaning the two boards here took about a minute and a half.
Photo: Doug MahoneyWe preferred metal wands (top) over plastic ones (bottom). They’re more durable, and it’s easier to get additional accessories. Photo: Doug MahoneyWe tested by cleaning everything we could. To determine the best pressure washer, we washed six cars, a couple of sets of patio furniture, a lawn tractor, a brick chimney, three filthy wheelbarrows, some grime-covered pallets, a small soccer net, a garden cart, a maple-syrup evaporator, three rabbit cages, and some muddy extension cords. We also cleaned years of caked-on cow manure off an old, well-used Ford tractor. In addition, we’ve continued using our picks for all manner of around-the-house use.Best overall pressure washer: Ryobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Electric Pressure Washer
Doug Mahoney/NYT WirecutterTop pickThe best pressure washerRyobi RY142500 Brushless 2500 PSI Pressure WasherWith extra-large wheels, a long hose, a high-end induction motor, and a well-designed GFCI plug, this Ryobi model is the most user-friendly electric pressure washer.$299 from The Home DepotAfter all of our testing and research, we’re confident that the best pressure washer is the Ryobi RY142500 2500 PSI Electric Pressure Washer. It didn’t clean much faster or better than the other models during our testing, but its smart design touches avoid nearly all of the inconveniences commonly associated with pressure washers. This model replaces our previous pick, the Ryobi RY142300, which has been discontinued.It cleans well (but they all do). The Ryobi RY142500’s pressure rating of 2,500 psi is high for an electric pressure washer, but it has a relatively low flow rate of 1.2 gpm, so its actual cleaning ability is on a par with that of the other models we tried. We’ve never found the power lacking: In our tests, this model managed to get blobs of pine sap off a car and push away a graying layer of mildew on patio furniture. And in our years of long-term testing, Ryobi’s electric pressure washer has always delivered enough power for the job at hand.Its induction motor adds a number of advantages. Induction motors are quieter and last longer than the smaller universal motors found on the majority of residential pressure washers. They’re also larger and heavier. In the case of the well-balanced RY142500, the added weight acts as a stabilizer. Even when we gave the hose a good tug, we were unable to tip over the unit.
Photo: Doug MahoneyThe hose, cord, and wand storage are better than most. To store the Ryobi RY142500, you loop both the hose and cord and attach them to the washer with either a Velcro strap (the hose) or a bungee (the cord). Because they’re not stored in a tight loop, as on so many other pressure washers, when unwound they lie relatively flat. The hose and cord are also of higher quality than those on most competing models. And the wand holder actually does the job of holding the wand, something that most wand holders seem to be incapable of doing. The cord and hose of the Ryobi RY142500 are easy to store and to unravel when you need to. Photo: Doug MahoneyIts big wheels can traverse any lawn. At nearly a foot in diameter, the Ryobi RY142500’s wheels are almost twice as large as the wheels on most electric pressure washers. This made the RY142500 one of the easiest washers to maneuver, especially when we traveled over an uneven lawn, hopped a curb, and bumped it up a set of patio steps. Most of the wheels on the other washers were so bad, we had to half drag and half carry them.The plug can fit any outlet. Due to a pressure washer’s combination of water and electricity, all models come with a ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) built into the power cord for added safety. The GFCI brick is always bulky, but Ryobi sets it several inches back from the plug end, which allows the plug to be normal size. Most other pressure washers have the GFCI built directly into the plug end, making them incompatible with covered exterior outlets. Ryobi smartly designed its power cord with the GFCI set back from the plug end (top). Other manufacturers, such as AR Blue Clean (bottom), put the GFCI at the plug, making it bulky and impossible to use in some exterior outlets. Photo: Doug MahoneyRyobi covers it with a three-year limited warranty. This is one of the longest warranties we found for an electric pressure washer. Ryobi tools are readily available at Home Depot too, and you can have any servicing done through that retailer as well, an option that adds to the overall convenience of this pressure washer.Flaws but not dealbreakersThe soap dispenser is a problem. The Ryobi RY142500’s soap container is opaque, so you have no way to see how much detergent is left other than popping the cap off and taking a look. The cap is angled, so filling the container with detergent is difficult. But what’s worse is that the tank is bolted to the washer body, so to empty the tank, we had to tip the unit back and pull out the soap-supply hose on the underside of it. In doing this, it’s not easy to preserve the detergent for future use—in fact, we ended up just rolling the whole machine over on its side and dumping the detergent out on the lawn. Many other models have semi-opaque, removable tanks, with easy-to-access caps. The Ryobi pressure washer’s detergent tank is opaque and bolted to the washer frame, so you can’t see how much soap is left, and it’s difficult to empty out. The design of the removable Sun Joe detergent tank (left) avoids both of those issues. (This image shows an earlier version of our pick.) Photo: Doug MahoneyThe nozzle selection and storage are a bit lacking. The Ryobi RY142500 comes with three nozzles (15-degree, soap, and a rotary turbo nozzle) but offers a place to store only two of them; this design decision assumes that one nozzle will always be on the tip of the wand. We would have liked to see a 40-degree nozzle, or at least a place to put one in case the owner purchases it separately. The previous version of this pressure washer had an extra storage spot, so it’s a bit of an unforced error for Ryobi not to include that on this newer model.Runner-up: DeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure Washer
Photo: Doug MahoneyRunner-upSimilar benefits, minor inconveniencesDeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure WasherThis DeWalt model is similar to our top pick from Ryobi in power and usability, and it has a broader selection of nozzles and wider tires. But the cord wrap is frustrating.$229 from The Home Depot$329 from AmazonAnother pressure washer we like is the DeWalt DWPW2400 2400 PSI Electric Cold-Water Pressure Washer. This model is similar to the Ryobi RY142500 and shares many of its best characteristics, such as the induction motor, overall cleaning power, and sturdy design. But this model also has a number of differences, some of which we liked and others we weren’t fond of.It’s very similar to our top pick. The DeWalt DWPW2400 has the same roll-bar design, with a padded handle and a low center of gravity. The clearly labeled nozzles are stored at the handle, and the cord has the same smart placement of the GFCI brick. The controls are intuitive, as are the connection points for the hoses. We didn’t notice any difference in cleaning power between the two. The DeWalt DWPW2400 comes with wide pneumatic tires that easily bounce over uneven lawns. Photo: Doug Mahoney.In some ways, it’s better than our top pick from Ryobi. The detergent tank on this model is removable and translucent, solving all of the issues we have with the tank on our Ryobi top pick. The DeWalt DWPW2400 also comes with two more nozzles than the Ryobi RY142500 does, adding 25- and 40-degree tips, which are not essential but nice to have. In addition, the large, wide pneumatic (air-filled) tires made it easy for us to bounce this thing over rough terrain, including across a rocky, cratered area of lawn that had recently been dug up for planting. Wrapping the DeWalt DWPW2400’s cord back in place is a tedious and frustrating process. Photo: Doug MahoneyBut the cord storage and wand storage are not great. The cord storage is positioned very low, and with a 35-foot cord, wrapping up the entire length takes a while. Additionally, there’s so much cord that it just barely fits around the “horns” that you’re meant to wrap the cord around. It’s such a long (and annoying) process that we had to fully crouch down to avoid the onset of back pain when we tried to do this from a bent-over position. After a while, we started ignoring the horns and just bundled the cord with the hose and hung them both from the Velcro strap dangling from the handle. We also disliked how the DWPW2400’s wand holder hardly worked at all—the spray wand seemed to fall off every time we touched the washer.It’s more expensive than the Ryobi model. Prices fluctuate, but on average, we’ve seen the DeWalt pressure washer selling for about $30 more than the Ryobi model. That isn’t a huge difference, but it exists, so unless you know that you’d benefit from the DeWalt model’s pneumatic tires, we suggest sticking with our pick from Ryobi.Best budget pressure washer: Sun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure Washer
Photo: Doug MahoneyBudget pickA good cleaner with fewer featuresSun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure WasherThis less expensive model cleans comparably, but because it lacks several standout features, it’s much less convenient to use.$169 from Amazon$199 from The Home Depot$169 from WalmartIf you want a decent washer for the lowest price possible, we like the Sun Joe SPX3000 Electric Pressure Washer, one of the least expensive models we tested. It’s nowhere near as user-friendly as the Ryobi RY142500, but it cleans just as well, so if you’re planning to operate a pressure washer only once or twice each year and you cringe at the Ryobi model’s price tag, this Sun Joe washer will get the job done. It has some annoyances, but among the pressure washers in its price range, the Sun Joe SPX3000 stands apart for making fewer compromises than its competitors.For a budget pressure washer, it gets a lot right. This Sun Joe washer has a metal spray wand (competitors’ wands at this price are often plastic) and comes with five removable nozzle tips: 0, 15, 25, and 40 degrees, plus soap. Unfortunately, it has no rotary nozzle, but it does have two detergent tanks. It has simple, effective cord and hose hooks, so we never had any issue with the hose or cord falling off while we were moving the washer.But it has some serious limitations. Compared with the hose on our top pick from Ryobi, the Sun Joe SPX3000’s hose is 5 feet shorter, so encircling a car for washing, for example, is more difficult. The SPX3000 also has small wheels that don’t work well on a lawn—expect to do more carrying and dragging than all-terrain rolling. And this washer has a noisy universal motor, rather than an induction motor like the one on our top pick.Overall, it lacks the general fit and finish of our top pick from Ryobi. This Sun Joe model doesn’t have a metal roll bar, it’s not as stable, the hose connections are just a little more difficult to make, the tip storage isn’t as good, and the GFCI brick is impossible to use in a covered exterior outlet unless you use an extension cord. These little annoyances—combined with the small wheel size, short hose length, and loud motor noise—can add up to a generally frustrating experience.Best portable pressure washer: Ryobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure Washer
Photo: Doug MahoneyBest for...More portability, less powerRyobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure WasherThis Ryobi model doesn’t clean as quickly as the others, but its small size and top handle make it portable and easy to store.$149 from The Home DepotFor a less powerful but more portable option, we like the Ryobi RY1419MTVNM 1900 PSI Electric Pressure Washer. Although it has the same long hose and cord as our main pick from Ryobi, this smaller Ryobi washer is much easier to carry around and can be stowed away on a shelf. It lacks the premium induction motor of the Ryobi RY142500, so it may not last as long. Another downside is that the GFCI is at the cord end, so it will not work with covered exterior outlets.It’s less than half the weight of our main pick. At about 20 pounds, the RY1419MTVNM is very easy to carry and store. You can pick it up with the top handle or roll it along on small, luggage-like wheels with the extending handle (we preferred carrying it).It also has less power than the other models we tested. This smaller Ryobi model cleaned all the same things, but we had to hold its nozzle closer to the object and spend more time overall. When it comes to just getting things clean, we preferred the bigger Ryobi RY142500, but this model can still work, depending on your timing and technique.Wirecutter supervising editor Joshua Lyon has been long-term testing the RY1419MTVNM for about a year, using it for around-the-house jobs like cleaning patio stones, siding, plastic Adirondack chairs, a wheelbarrow, and car tires, among other small chores. Aside from finding the act of pressure washing “ridiculously fun,” he told us that the Ryobi RY1419MTVNM’s power is more than enough for the work that he’s doing—he even stripped a little paint off his house when the nozzle got too close. Joshua appreciates the RY1419MTVNM’s compact size and has never used its luggage handle, preferring to just carry the washer around. “I don’t think I’d want to deal with a larger machine,” he said. “I find this one just right for easy storage in our smallish shed.”Best stowable pressure washer: DeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure Washer
Photo: Doug MahoneyBest for...The easiest to stow awayDeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure WasherThis DeWalt model isn’t as powerful as some other pressure washers, but with its unique shape and smart wand, hose, and cord storage, it’s the easiest one to stow away.$299 from Amazon$299 from The Home Depot$352 from WalmartIf storage is your primary concern—and with a rarely used item like a pressure washer, it might be—we recommend the DeWalt DWPW2100 2100 Max PSI Electric Jobsite Cold Water Pressure Washer. Everything about this model’s design is focused on making it easy to stow away. Its biggest flaw is that the hose is very stiff.There’s a real satisfaction to storing it. Pressure washers take up a good amount of space—there is always a hose, a cord, and a spray wand flopping around, so even the small ones aren’t exactly neat, tidy packages. Every detail of the DWPW2100 is designed to reduce that frustration. All the parts and accessories are stored within the rectangular roll-bar frame. The cord tucks into one side and the hose in the other; the wand breaks down into three pieces and slides into a compartment on one side. The spray nozzles are stored on the handle of the spray wand. Because the end result is so perfectly boxy, the DeWalt DWPW2100 can store on its narrow end or have things stacked on top of it (something we’ve never seen in a pressure washer before).It’s easy to maneuver around. Though the DeWalt DWPW2100 doesn’t have a big handle or big wheels, its easy-to-grab roll cage gives you a lot of options for carrying it, which ended up being our preferred method of moving the machine around. If that’s awkward for you, it also has a retractable handle and small wheels. The wheels are like in-line skate wheels and work far better than the small, plastic ones found on most pressure washers. The DeWalt DWPW2100’s wand and nozzles are stored in an internal compartment. Photo: Doug MahoneyThe sleek, storage-centered design comes at a cost. We got a lot done with this pressure washer, but its power is not in the same class as that of our top pick. Although it’s closer in power to the compact Ryobi model we recommend, its cost is within range of our top pick’s pricing. That puts it at about twice the price of other models with similar power, so you have quite a hefty cost increase for the easy storage.What about cordless pressure washers?
Photo: Doug MahoneyWe’ve tested cordless pressure washers from Ego, Greenworks, and Ryobi. They’re good cleaners with nice features—the Ego models especially—but the downsides are that they are extremely expensive and have run times that aren’t fit for big jobs such as cleaning a large driveway or a mildew-covered bluestone patio. It’s nice that they’re untethered from an outlet, but since they remain tethered to a hose, their potential for portability is, in most cases, a moot point. After living with cordless models for awhile, we found there was a lot to love—even if we ultimately didn’t recommend them.The best of the bunch is the Ego Power+ 3200 PSI Cordless Pressure Washer, which has several great features that we’d love to see on some of its more accessible competitors. It offers fantastic quick-connect fittings, handle-mounted controls, and three pressure options to help moderate cleaning power and water usage. At about $800, it’s nearly three times the cost of our corded pick. It comes with two batteries but only a single charger, so you can expect a lot of downtime if you’re taking on a large project.The Greenworks 80V 3000-PSI Electric Pressure Washer and the Ryobi RY40306BTLVNM 40V HP Whisper Series 2000 PSI Pressure Washer are also nice (and they also cost a good bit more than our non-cordless picks). Although they don’t have all of the convenience features of the Ego model, they’re efficient at cleaning—while the battery lasts—and otherwise behave the way any pressure washer should. The Greenworks model comes with a dual-port battery charger, which we appreciated.What to look forward toWe’re currently testing the Westinghouse ePX3500 Electric Pressure Washer. This mid-range washer has four casters that sit outboard of the body, which may work to increase stability. For power, it looks comparable to the Sun Joe. At the moment, it has very strong feedback at both Amazon and Home Depot and comes with five quick connect tips.The competitionAs of 2024, we’re no longer recommending gas pressure washers. They clean faster than electric models, but the trade-off is a tool that’s louder, heavier, and smellier. Gas-powered pressure washers also need fuel, oil, maintenance, and proper offseason storage. We’ve had one on hand for years, and we never use it, always reaching for an electric model instead. If you have a very large area that you consistently clean and you don’t mind maintaining an engine, we do like the gas-powered models from Ryobi (which are the ones we used to recommend). They have reliable Honda engines, offer nice convenience features, and are readily available at Home Depot. Our first choice would be the RY803023A 3100 PSI Gas Pressure Washer.The Craftsman CMEPW2400 Pressure Washer looks like a solid cleaner with a similar price and specs to our top pick. However, the Ryobi offers a slightly better cleaning power and larger wheels that makes the cleaning experience easier on any lawn.The compact Chemical Guys ProFlow PM200 Performance Electric Pressure Washer is powerful little cleaner designed with the car detailer in mind (indicated in part by the included casters). We liked it, but since it has no onboard hose, cord, or wand storage, it doesn’t store as well as some of the others.Most models, like the Ryobi RY142022VNM and the Kärcher K1700 didn’t have our pick’s combination of features and cleaning power, nor its induction motor.The AR BlueClean BC2N1HSS and the AR2N1 each have a two-part design in which you can separate the washer unit from the cart. For models priced similar to our pick, however, they fall short in that they lack an induction motor.Kärcher’s K3 Follow Me has an interesting four-wheel design that you can pull around behind you. Its low cleaning-units score and so-so owner feedback put it out of the running.Other models, such as the AR Blue Clean AR383 and AR Blue Clean’s AR383SS were marred by subpar cord and hose storage.Stanley’s electric pressure washers are all made by AR Blue Clean and appear to be the exact same, but with yellow paint instead of blue.The Greenworks GPW2300 is similar to our Ryobi top pick and DeWalt runner-up, but it has smaller wheels, and we’ve seen availability issues with that company’s models.This article was edited by Harry Sawyers.Meet your guideDoug MahoneyWhat I CoverI write about a variety of home topics that range from tools and outdoor power equipment to fire safety and plumbing (toilets, bidets, and plungers). I also handle our pest-control guides, including those focused on bug repellents and mousetraps. I assist with some emergency-prep coverage, as well. Further reading40(ish) Wirecutter Picks for Gardenersby Gabriella DePinhoThese 40(ish) useful things are some of our favorite gardening picks.The Best Reel Mower for Your (Small) Lawnby Ed Grabianowski and Doug MahoneyAfter 30 hours researching and testing reel mowers, we think the Scotts 2000-20 20-Inch Classic Push Reel Lawn Mower is the best pick for manual lawncare.Want a Great Yard With Minimal Effort? These Tools Can Help.by Gabriella DePinhoSpend more time enjoying your yard and less time working on it with these Wirecutter-expert–approved tools and gadgets.I Love Ego’s New Cordless Pressure Washer. But You Shouldn’t Buy It.by Doug MahoneyThis tool’s details are excellent—but to be honest, a cordless pressure washer doesn’t make a lot of sense.AdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTEditWirecutterWirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). About WirecutterOur teamStaff demographicsJobs at WirecutterHow to pitchContact The New York TimesSend us feedbackNewsletters© 2025 Wirecutter, Inc., A New York Times CompanyPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceCookie PolicyPartnerships & AdvertisingLicensing & ReprintsRSS