I've Tested All the Major Music Streaming Services, but This One Stands Out - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
I've Tested All the Major Music Streaming Services, but This One Stands Out
The competition between music streaming services is as fierce as ever, especially with the inclusion of audiobooks and lossless music.
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Article updated on September 11, 2025 at 12:23 PM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
If you prefer a monthly subscription, consider how much want to pay for access to music, full albums, podcasts and other content. Additionally, you may pay less money if you're eligible for a student deal, or you'll pay more if your household needs a family plan so everyone can stream.
Sound quality
Depending on what devices you're using to listen, the availability of features like Dolby Atmos or spatial audio may determine your streaming service preference. Whether you're listening in your car, phone or home theater speakers, check if lossless and other high-quality features are included and/or supported.
Music purchases
Some music lovers want to buy digital songs or entire albums, but not every service offers that option. Apple Music, Qobuz and Amazon Music are your primary choices for that.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Today's audio streaming services offer a tantalizing mix of convenience and music discovery, giving you easy access to your favorite tunes while helping you unearth new gems. Sound quality is even better than ever, and many of the paid subscriptions include spatial Dolby Atmos audio and/or lossless for free. It's not just about music anymore, either. Audiobooks and podcasts have become the next must-have features, with Spotify and Amazon Music including both as part of their monthly fees. I've tested all the major services and compared all the relevant features, along with a full price breakdown. Let's dive in. Our Picks
Best music streaming service overall Spotify
Jump to details
$12 at Spotify
Jump to details
Best alternative to Spotify Apple Music
Jump to details
See at Apple
Jump to details
Best for serious music fans Tidal
Jump to details
See at Tidal
Jump to details
Best for audiophiles who want to buy albums Qobuz
Jump to details
See at Qobuz
Jump to details
Best for Android users YouTube Music
Jump to details
See at YouTube Music
Jump to details
Best for Prime members Amazon Music Unlimited
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
Easiest transfer for existing libraries Deezer
Jump to details
$12 at Deezer
Jump to details
Show 2 more
Table of Contents
I've Tested All the Major Music Streaming Services, but This One Stands Out
What is the best music streaming service overall?
Best music streaming services of 2025
Best music streaming service overall
Best alternative to Spotify
Best for serious music fans
Best for audiophiles who want to buy albums
Best for Android users
Best for Prime members
Easiest transfer for existing libraries
Top services compared
Factors to consider
How we test streaming services
We also tested
Music streaming FAQs
What is the best music streaming service overall?When choosing a music streaming service, it's a close race between two in particular: Spotify Premium and Apple Music. Both services boast extensive catalogs and plenty of features, but there is a clear winner. Despite a price increase to $12 a month, Spotify is the best streaming service for most people. It offers the best mix of features, including lossless, audiobooks, Spotify Connect streaming and great community offerings such as Spotify Wrapped. Spotify also offers the best free tier: Without paying a dime or providing a credit card number, you can listen to millions of tunes and stream to Wi-Fi devices.For Apple device users, the excellent Apple Music is hot on Spotify's tail with potential for even better sound due to the inclusion of spatial music, and it's a dollar cheaper. Although the company has made strides in recent years, a few bricks of the former walled garden remain, and it's not as recommendable to Android or PC users. Spotify is still a better choice for users of both iOS and Android. Lastly, if you're an audiophile -- or simply love music -- then both Tidal and Qobuz offer excellent sound quality at realistic prices. Of those two, Tidal has taken pains to remove the proprietary MQA format and offer a cheaper fee, while Qobuz offers a point of difference in its download store.Read more: Apple Music vs. Spotify: Comparing the Top Music Streaming ServicesBest music streaming services of 2025
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
James Martin/CNET
Best music streaming service overall
Spotify
Pros
Lossless music on Premium for no extra charge
Free version is robust
Spotify Connect simplifies connection to devices
Great playlist features including live "Jam"
Cons
Free-service ads can be intrusive
Podcast integration is awkward
Hard to find a non-audiobook option
Spotify is a pioneer in music streaming and is arguably the best-known service. It offers several curated music discovery services, including its Discover Weekly playlist, and is constantly implementing new ones, such as Stations, an AI DJ, audiobooks and podcasts. After years of waiting, Spotify is finally rolling out lossless music for no extra charge.Though it may not be lossless (yet), Spotify is great if you're seeking a solid all-around service, especially one that lets you make, browse and share playlists for any occasion. The company's year-end Wrapped is an institution and it has spawned "best of" imitations from most of the company's competitors. It's worth noting that Spotify has undergone some price changes in the last 18 months which coincided with the addition of audiobooks. The service now costs $12 in the US, £12 in the UK and AU$14 in Australia. The company does have a book-free tier for $11, but it's available only to current and "eligible" customers, but this appears to be a very select group. There's also an ad-supported free version of Spotify, and the student rate costs $6 per month.  ... Show more
Get it now
$12 at Spotify
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
Premium Plans: $12 - Individual; $17 - Duo; $20 - Family Free trial
30 days Mobile downloads
Yes
Learn more
Spotify review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best alternative to Spotify
Apple Music
Pros
Spatial and hi-res music included
Combines your iTunes library with music you don't own, with a choice of music lockers
Human music experts and algorithms help find music you'll want to hear based on what you play
Tight integration with Apple HomePod and iOS devices
Cons
Not as fun for Android or PC users
At the same price as Spotify, Apple Music offers a lot for the money, including 100 million tracks and iOS and Android compatibility. The service runs second to Spotify in terms of subscribers but surpasses its rival in that it has hi-res lossless and spatial audio albums, plus classical music app at no extra charge.Though it makes the most sense if you're an Apple user, Music is an option if you're listening on a PC, Android, or have invested in smart speakers -- including those from Google. If you own an Apple HomePod, Mini or Nest device, you can summon Apple Music tracks with your voice. The service also features a ton of curated playlists, many handcrafted by musicians and tastemakers, although the service lacks the robust sharing options (or some of the cool add-ons) available to Spotify users. If you're looking to move to Apple Music from its main rival Spotify, then Apple has released a tool which enables you to swap your libraries from one to the other.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Apple
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
Plans: $6 - Student; $11 - Individual; $17 - FamilyFree trial
30 days/90 daysMobile downloads
Yes
Learn more
Apple Music review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best for serious music fans
Tidal
Pros
High-fidelity music streams, including Dolby Atmos surround mixes
Lots of video content, including concert livestreams
Profiles and record reviews on every page, plus up-and-coming artist spotlights
Cons
The mobile apps and web player aren't as straightforward as some others
The catalog isn't as exhaustive as Spotify Premium
Most high-res music uses MQA, which needs a specialized decoder
Though Tidal quietly did away with its free service, it also scrapped its $20 Hi-Fi Plus tier in favor of an all-inclusive $11 plan instead -- this means hi-res music for everybody. It's worth noting that the service is (still) replacing its proprietary MQA files with hi-res FLAC for better compatibility. The service also boasts an impressive number of tracks -- more than most competitors -- at 110 million songs. If you're an audiophile, a fan of urban music, or a mix of both, then Tidal offers a great catalog and a very attractive price.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Tidal
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
Plans: $5.50 - Student; $11 - Individual; $17 - FamilyFree trial
30 daysMobile downloads
Yes
Add to compare
Qobuz/Screenshot by Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Qobuz/Screenshot by Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best for audiophiles who want to buy albums
Qobuz
Pros
The app is really clean and fun to use
Ability to listen to 24-bit music without needing a specialized decoder
Download store as well
Cons
No spatial audio
Qobuz's streaming service offers a wealth of music in hi-res, and you don't need a special hardware decoder to listen to it. The service offers two main plans: Studio Premier ($13 monthly or $130 yearly) and the $180 annual Sublime Plus. If you're a student, its new $5-a-month plan is a great value. Uniquely, the streaming service offers its own hi-res download store, and if you sign up for Sublime, you get a discount on purchases.In 2025, the company added Qobuz Connect, which enables users to stream from the app to their compatible hi-fi, and takes on similar functionality from Tidal and Spotify.At 100 million tracks, Qobuz's streaming catalog rivals Tidal's and Spotify's in number, and based on our tests, its catalog of more-obscure artists is now pretty impressive. Excellent sound quality at a decent price? Qobuz is our favorite service for serious music lovers who also want to be able to purchase tracks.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Qobuz
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
Plans: Student $5; Studio Premier $13Free trial
30 daysMobile downloads
Yes
Add to compare
Screenshot: Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot: Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best for Android users
YouTube Music
YouTube Music ($11 a month) is the successor to Google Play Music, and if you sign up for the ad-free YouTube Premium at $14 a month, you get YouTube Music for free. The good news is that YouTube Music is a mostly impressive service (the lower bit rate of 256Kbps is mildly disappointing), but Google has retained the predecessor's music locker system enabling you to upload new tracks. In even better news, YouTube Music offers a clean interface with over 100 million tracks to choose from. YouTube Music offers well-curated radio stations that play endlessly and are updated often. The service also has the ability to make playlists out of YouTube music clips, which makes it a worthy option. Lastly, the Apple HomePod has joined Google's Nest devices in enabling users to set YouTube Music as the default.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at YouTube Music
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
Plans: $5.50 - Students; $11 - Individual; $17 - FamilyFree trial
30 days - only for students Mobile downloads
Yes
Add to compare
Screenshot by Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best for Prime members
Amazon Music Unlimited
Pros
Cheaper than the top three if you're an Amazon Prime member
Lyrics automatically pop up on the "now playing" screen
Hi-res and spatial audio from Sony 360 Reality Audio and Dolby Atmos at no extra charge
Offers free music stations for Amazon Echo, Echo Dot and Amazon Tap (includes ads)
Cons
Artist profiles don't have biographies
The service no longer includes a music locker
While Amazon Prime Music comes "free" as part of a Prime membership, users can choose to upgrade to Music Unlimited for audiobooks and higher-quality music streams. At $11 for Prime members, or $12 if you don't have Prime, Unlimited offers an expanded catalog plus Atmos audio mixes which can be played on Dolby Atmos soundbars, Android or iOS devices, and the Amazon Echo Studio. In terms of usability, the Music Unlimited interface is also more powerful than before with playlists, genres and podcasts all accessible from the main page.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
Plans: $10 (with Prime); $11 (without Prime); $17 - Family Free trial
90 daysFree trial
Yes
Add to compare
Deezer
Photo Gallery 1/1
Deezer
Easiest transfer for existing libraries
Deezer
Pros
Hi-res music included
Has a free tier
Catalog conversion at no extra cost
Cons
Plenty of competition at the price
French stalwart Deezer has been operating in the US since 2016, and it has a lot to offer, including a free tier (mobile only) and an impressive 120 million tracks. It has more subscribers than some others on this list, thanks in part to its previous affiliation with Cricket Wireless. The main Premium plan is $12 a month, and users are also able to upgrade their audio quality within the app. Deezer also offers a couple of unique features, including being the first service to let users upload their catalogs from competitors at no extra charge.   ... Show more
Get it now
$12 at Deezer
Specs & Configurations
Monthly price
$12Free trial
30 daysMobile downloads
Yes
Add to compareTop services compared
Amazon Music UnlimitedApple MusicQobuzSpotifyTidalYouTube Music Monthly fee Prime members: $11, £11, AU$13; Non-Prime members: $12, £12; Echo-only service: $6, £6, AU$7$11, £11, AU$13; Voice $5, £5, AU$6Studio: $13, £13, AU$20; Sublime (per year): $180, £180, AU$250 $12, £12, AU$14$11, £11, AU$12$11, £12, AU$12; YouTube Premium (includes Music): $14, £13, AU$17 Free option? Yes, with adsNoNoYes, with adsNoYes, with adsFree trial period 120 days30 days to 3 months30 days30 days30 days30 daysMusic library size 100 millionOver 100 millionOver 100 millionOver 100 millionOver 110 millionOver 100 millionMaximum bit rate 256Kbps, 3,730Kbps (HD)256Kbps, 1,152 Kbps (HD estimated)6,971Kbps320Kbps1,411Kbps256KbpsFamily plan? Yes, $17, £17, AU$19 for max 6Yes, $15, £15, AU$18 for max 6Yes, $18, £22, AU$30Yes $20, £20, AU$24 per month, max 6Yes, $17, £17, AU$20 max 6Yes, $17Student discount YesYes, $6, £6, AU$7Yes, $5, £5Yes, $6, £5 with Hulu Yes, $5.49, £5.49Yes, $8US military discount NoNoNoNoYesNoOffline listening Mobile and desktopMobile and desktopMobile and desktopMobile and desktopMobilePremium, mobile onlyRadio stations YesYesNoYesNoYesPodcasts YesNoNoYesYesYesMusic videos NoYesNoYesYesYesMusic locker functionality NoYesNoNoNoYes
Factors to consider
James Martin/CNETThe principal thing you'll need to weigh is your monthly cost. Until recently, prices were stable at around $10 a month, but Apple Music, Amazon Music Unlimited, Tidal, YouTube Music and Spotify have all hiked rates to $11 or more. While your subscription fee can give you access to a number of features -- including classical music, karaoke and podcasts -- what it can also do is unlock higher-quality audio. Sound quality is also an important consideration, and services such as Apple Music and Amazon Music Unlimited offer lossless and Dolby Atmos music at no extra charge. Meanwhile, Spotify now offers lossless music as part of the Premium subscription.With the addition of audiobooks, both Amazon Music and Spotify offer an additional point of difference over the other services.If you like to buy your own digital music, Apple Music and YouTube Music are the only services to offer a digital locker to store your existing library of songs, while Qobuz also offers a storefront (without a locker for existing libraries). How we test streaming services
We've checked out the big names, including Spotify, Apple Music, Amazon Music, YouTube Music and Deezer, as well as smaller ones such as Tidal, Qobuz, Napster and Pandora Premium, to see how each platform stacks up for your subscription dollar. Most of the services feature music catalogs of around 100 million tracks and are supported by a host of different devices. Given that all of the services basically have the same libraries, we evaluated each one based on: Ease of useCostFeaturesSound qualityWhile YouTube Music offers objectively the "worst" quality based on numbers alone, most people won't notice a difference, especially on phones or Bluetooth speakers. The biggest boons for Spotify users, in particular, are that service's ubiquity, community features and ability to easily pair with other devices.Apple's also gets high marks due to its suitability for iOS and Mac users, as well as the ability to listen to higher-quality streams at no extra cost. If the service was more yielding to PC users and smart home fans, Apple Music would easily become the service we would recommend. In short, Spotify is better for users of almost any phone, smart device or computer. We also tested
Napster: Popular music streaming service Rhapsody relaunched as Napster in 2016. It offers 110 million tracks including lossless for $11 a month. The service is fine, although it lacks the killer features of the best here -- e.g. podcasts, simplified streaming and community features. Competition is stiff, and Spotify and Apple are a better value. See at Napster.Pandora Premium: Still one of the most popular streaming radio services in the US, Pandora also offers the a la carte Premium ($11 a month) and no-ads Plus ($5 a month). The result is more flexibility than most competitors, and Premium has gained plenty more subscribers in recent years, even if the service is not keeping up in terms of overall catalog size. Sadly, its audio quality is among the lowest available, even on the Premium subscription (192Kbps), and it doesn't offer enough of an incentive for an upgrade from its highly popular free tier. See at Pandora. Music streaming FAQs
How do I listen to free music?
Most of the streaming music services offer free tiers -- including Spotify, Pandora, Amazon and YouTube -- but they do come with a couple of caveats. First, these are usually playlist services, in which you can pick a song and the rest of the tunes auto-generate -- you can't pick exactly what you want to play. The other potential downside is that they come with ads, and sometimes it's the same ad for every break.
Show more
How do you transfer your library between services?
Without contracts, it's pretty easy to cancel one service and start with another. Swapping between music services isn't as straightforward as swapping between movie locker services using Movies Anywhere, for example. If you don't want to have to rebuild your playlists and library from scratch when you switch, you have two main options: a music locker service such as YouTube Music (but this implies you have a library of ripped or bought MP3s), or a library import tool such as Soundiiz. The latter is a service that lets you import the songs from each of your music services and transfer them, and while there's a $4.50 monthly charge, you can always cancel once you've converted your library. Deezer offers the ability for new users to convert their libraries from other services for free (via another service called Tune My Music).
Show more
Do I need spatial or Atmos audio?
The short answer is "no" and the long answer is "sort of, maybe." Stereo music has been around since the 1950s and its worldwide catalog simply dwarfs the amount of Atmos audio tracks by comparison. Apple may rave about how "magical" spatial music is, but unless you have an expensive Dolby Atmos system, you may not be able to hear the differences anyway. In our own tests, we've found that a well-mixed Atmos track on a dedicated setup can be fun. It's like a roller coaster -- enjoyable, but you wouldn't want to use it as your sole form of transport. However spatial audio does make sense if you're watching a movie because you're not moving your head that much, and soundtracks are designed to be listened in surround, anyway. While the music industry has tried unsuccessfully to market surround music with Quadraphonic in the 1970s and DVD-Audio in the 2000s, it's unlikely stereo music will ever go out of favor.
Show more
Which music streaming service has the biggest catalog?
At the time of writing, all of the services offer at least 100 million tracks each -- while Deezer says it has 120 million -- but that's not the end of the story. The number of songs offered by a music service used to be the main differentiator, but as always, it's quality over quantity that counts -- and particularly if you're looking for more obscure tracks. Depending on your favorite genre, some of the services may offer a better catalog for under-the-radar (Spotify), indie (Apple) or hip-hop artists (Tidal). Users who are less ambitious about expanding their musical taste should be satisfied with the catalogs that all the services offer.
Show more
Which services include music lockers?
Amazon was one of the first services to offer uploading your MP3 collection into the cloud, but this was officially discontinued in 2018. Meanwhile, both the Apple and YouTube services allow you to combine your personal music collection with the streaming catalog, although tagging and organization can be a time-consuming challenge (your myriad live Phish tracks won't organize themselves). Still, if you've invested money in digital music over the years, those two services offer a patch to continue enjoying that music online.
Show more
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.