Own a Samsung smartwatch? This 30-second fix will keep it running like new | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
Own a Samsung smartwatch? This 30-second fix will keep it running like new
Clear the cache on your Galaxy Watch to fix battery drain, software glitches, and general sluggishness. Here's how.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 19, 2025 at 2:00 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways Clearing cache speeds up a slow Galaxy Watch.Cache buildup causes lag and battery drain.Restarting isn't enough -- manual cache clearing helps.Your Galaxy Watch is not so different from your phone or even a messy room. When put to great use, it, too, gets cluttered.By continually using your Galaxy Watch, regularly switching between apps and functionalities, or running too many apps at the same time, you're bogging it down with data that clutters it and slows performance. This results in slower performance, frozen screens, and an annoying user experience.
Also: I wore the best smartwatches from Samsung, Apple, and Google - here's how Galaxy Watch 8 winsLuckily, hope isn't lost -- and you don't need to buy another device to fix this issue. In fact, I'd advise against doing so whenever you're confronting any performance issue with your technology. Before you shell out more money on a new device, there are some tips and tricks you can use to breathe new life into an old one.
This brings us to, quite possibly, the easiest fix to lagging smartwatch performance: clearing the cache.
What is cache on my Galaxy Watch?
Think of a cache like a garbage can. It temporarily stores your smartwatch data (or junk) and, in this half-baked analogy, considers that data when you log into sites or perform regular tasks.
Also: I compared Apple and Samsung's best smartwatches - here's who wins for nowJust like a garbage can, it gets filled with junk after a while and begins to overflow if not properly handled. You eventually have to dispose of the junk in a dumpster to add more junk (or data) to the can.
Clearing your cache removes some of that junk that's making the garbage can (Galaxy Watch) performance laggy.
Also: Why I recommend this Samsung Galaxy Watch over competing AndroidsAccording to a Samsung spokesperson, the Galaxy Watch's memory management operates automatically through system-driven optimization. However, you can still take manual steps to clear the watch's memory.
Kerry Wan/ZDNET How to clear cache on my Galaxy Watch
1. Clear your app's cache
To close all recent apps on your Galaxy Watch, swipe up from the watch face and tap the Recent apps icon. From there, select Close all.If you want to manage apps running in the background, open the Recent apps screen again and tap Active in background. You can then select the specific app you want to close.
Show more
2. Clean your Galaxy Watch's memory
To optimize your phone's performance, go to Settings, select Device Care, and then tap Memory. From there, you can choose Clean Now to free up space.
Show more
FAQs
How often should I clear my cache? It's best practice to occasionally clear your Galaxy Watch's cache, especially if you notice performance slowdowns or hiccups. The process is straightforward and quick, but it should make a noticeable difference in how your watch performs afterward.
When shouldn't I clear my cache?
If your watch is buggy, laggy, or draining battery faster than normal, clearing the cache can remove corrupted or outdated files, one Reddit user explains. The Reddit user also explains that there are certain circumstances when you should avoid cache-clearing, like right after a software update, when the smartwatch is already using extra compute power to rebuild the cache.
Also: How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it) Could restarting my watch do the same thing? Restarting your watch could remove some bugs and glitches. However, a reboot won't clear the cache, so no, it isn't the same thing.
Show more
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Changing these 7 settings on my Samsung phone greatly extended its battery life
Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost
How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use