I'm staying cautious about game-key cards despite Star Wars Outlaws releasing on Nintendo Switch 2
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I'm staying cautious about game-key cards despite Star Wars Outlaws releasing on Nintendo Switch 2
By
Jakejames Lugo
Published 22 hours ago
Jakejames Lugo is a writer that has been covering video games and other entertainment for many years. He has written and published reviews, guides, listicles, and other content that anyone interested in gaming would follow. A lot of his work can be found in places like IGN, Dot Esports, Red Bull Gaming, The Outerhaven, Playboy Gaming, and many other outlets.
Jakejames continues to be part of the big conversations surrounding video games and entertainment. You can always find him sharing his undying passion for games online.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Many gamers are still debating about the relevance and impact of game-key cards for Nintendo Switch 2 games. Certain releases will not have the full game data on the cartridge for physical games you can buy in stores, but will instead have a key to trigger a download from the internet. It's something that has sparked a lot of controversy among Switch 2 owners, with many decrying the practice as something that could impact what gamers actually own when they buy a physical game in stores. But the debate doesn't seem to be dying down anytime soon, especially after the release of Star Wars Outlaws for the Nintendo Switch 2, adding further fuel to the fiery conversation. An audio architect at Ubisoft, Rob Bantin, had a long post on social media explaining why the Switch 2 utilizes game-key cards in the way it does, and why it's necessary for certain games to run correctly. According to his posts, he says that Star Wars Outlaws relies on disk streaming for the open world within the game, which cannot be done right using only the Switch 2 cartridge. And while this new information from someone that released a game on a Switch 2 cartridge makes a lot of sense, it still hasn't changed my view on the entire issue. Here's why I'm staying cautious about game-key cards despite Star Wars Outlaws releasing on Nintendo Switch 2.
A lack of choice
No options for how to proceed
Although Rob's statements about why a game-key card is necessary for a game like Star Wars Outlaws to run well on the Switch 2, it's only one example of a game for the console. Not every release for the Nintendo Switch 2 is going to need the resources to render out an open-world in the same way that Kay Vess' adventure in a galaxy far, far away requires. But at the same time, the reasoning gets away from the original problem that most people had with game-key cards in concept. They aren't actually buying the data of the game itself on the cartridge, but rather a key to download a game from the internet. The first problem with this is when one doesn't have a connection to the internet and the Nintendo eShop, meaning that a new game purchase is useless until you connect the system online. The second is what exactly is being bought in the first place, which is radically different from how things were before with the original Nintendo Switch. Gamers aren't trying to buy keys to a download when going to get a game they want at retail stores like GameStop. They want to be able to play their games right away, with all the data they need on the cartridge itself, plain and simple.
Credit: Source: Ubisoft
But the bigger issue with game-key cards is a complete lack of choice for players. Why can't there be an option for me to just play the game data off the cartridge if there's no internet connection at the time? And why not offer me the option to download the game later if I don't want to go through the hassle of connecting online to download a game? It comes off more that consumers need to settle for what they're given, rather than making an active choice about how to start engaging with their purchase. None of that has to do with the way a game plays on the Switch 2 itself, because the problems pile on long before I can even boot up the game on my console.
Not every game should require it
Every title is built differently
The heart of the explanation from Rob about Star Wars Outlaws on Switch 2 is that the cartridges themselves can't render out the open-world the way they need it to when playing. As a game-key card download, the data can be read and processed by the Switch 2 faster, allowing for the game to run better on the console. According to Rob's statements online, it wasn't because of the cost of producing cartridges for the game, but rather making sure they hit the target performance needed for the game to run well for everyone. The goal was to get things as close to the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S versions as possible, in which they succeeded. This may have been the right call for a game like Star Wars Outlaws, where a large area that's detailed with characters and objects needs the best way to render everything without breaking the experience. But as far as the topic of game-key cards themselves, it's not something that every title would uniquely require to run. Games like Mario Kart World have their own version of an open environment that is rendered very well, and doesn't require a download from the internet after inserting a cartridge. Other games, such as Cyberpunk 2077, were also not a game-key card release and had a massively detailed world to explore that ran totally fine on the Switch 2.
Credit: Source: Nintendo
So it becomes a different question for everyone. Is it more about the type of games that need to be game-key card releases, or what is more convenient for studios to release? As of now, there are 36 total upcoming and current titles that are game-key card releases for the Nintendo Switch 2. And not all of them are designed to be like an open-world game. Other titles are staying as the traditional physical release with the full game on the cartridge, which further muddies up the conversation about why game-key cards are so controversial.
The perception hasn't changed
People are not budging on it
Credit: Source: Ubisoft
As much of the legit reason that Star Wars Outlaws has to be a game-key card release, people like myself aren't convinced enough to change our outlook on the topic. There may be a mild improvement in performance for most games that are made to be game-key card releases, but at that point it feels like one should just get the digital download if that's a real concern. Why would I even bother to get the physical copy of the game that is a game-key card, when I can just download it off the eShop? And furthermore, if that is really the benefit to having a new release on the Switch 2, why isn't every developer doing that for their own games? It's questions like this that remain unanswered, or not given a good enough answer, that is keeping most people from fully supporting the concept. It all goes back to the main issues brought up by game-key cards in the first place. What is it that I'm really buying as a consumer? And unfortunately, until there's a big enough Switch 2 game or indisputable reason for developers to release games just like this, the majority of players are never going to fully accept it. The idea of going to buy a full game physically and not receiving the full game on the cartridge is always going to rub people the wrong way, no matter how many reasons are given. As someone who has been buying games for a long time on platforms with physical media that include all the data for a game to play, it's something I'm never going to get away from, or change so easily.
Credit: Source: Ubisoft
The ongoing Switch 2 game debate
We're still very early on in the lifecycle of the Nintendo Switch 2, and have yet to see what types of games will make up the console's library. As time goes on, we may see bigger or more intense games developed for the console that can maybe justify game-key cards as a more viable option for everyone. But until that game or fateful day comes along, the debate about game-key cards is going to continue raging across social media and comment threads. It's not something that Nintendo, or any other game developer, is going to convince players to accept or change their minds on so easily. And right now for me, it's way too early to tell if this conversation will even last long into the Switch 2's lifespan moving forward.
Star Wars Outlaws
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Open-World
Action-Adventure
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
75/100
Critics Rec:
68%
Released
August 30, 2024
ESRB
T For Teen // Violence, Simulated Gambling, Mild Language
Developer(s)
Massive Entertainment
Publisher(s)
Ubisoft, Lucasfilm Games
Engine
Snowdrop
Franchise
Star Wars
Nintendo Switch 2 Release Date
September 4, 2025
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Nintendo
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
5 days ago
Some of Intel's future chips will integrate Nvidia RTX GPUs
5 days ago
Windows handheld gamers can unlock the new "Xbox mode" early: here's how
5 days ago
3 reasons a Dev Drive might be the perfect addition to your Windows install
4 days ago
9 reasons your ISP's router is hot garbage
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I saved my Home Assistant setup by building my own Bluetooth dongle with an nRF52840
Proxmox hookscripts are the best automation feature you're not using
eGPUs over Thunderbolt sound great, but be aware of these limitations
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.