I Tried It: This Blender Spins Simultaneously in Both Directions to Unstick Your Smoothie - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Kitchen & Household
I Tried It: This Blender Spins Simultaneously in Both Directions to Unstick Your Smoothie
This pricey blender spins both the blade and canister to eliminate that annoying mid-blend scraping.
Article updated on September 22, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
John Carlsen
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
John Carlsen
John Carlsen has more than a decade of experience testing and reviewing home tech products, with a major focus on smart home security. He earned his BS in journalism from Utah Valley University. In addition to his CNET contributions, John has written for Android Police, TWICE, Home Theater Review, SafeWise, ASecureLife and Top Ten Reviews. Expertise Smart Home | Home Security | Home Tech | Internet Security | Product Testing
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
The Backspin's canister spins independently and opposite from the blade to loosen sticky ingredients like nut butter and honey. John Carlsen/CNET
Table of Contents
I Tried It: This Blender Spins Simultaneously in Both Directions to Unstick Your Smoothie
Contra-rotating design allows for hands-off blending
Vacuum blending bumps the blending quality
Tribest Backspin's complicated design has a few tradeoffs
Should you buy the Tribest Backspin?
My budget-friendly Oster blender has put in good work over the years, but my ears — always trained to catch useful new technology — perked up when I heard about the Tribest Backspin. The $500 Backspin is a premium blender with a unique contra-rotating design in which blade and canister spin in opposite directions to eliminate scraping and tamping. It also uses a built-in vacuum pump to improve blend quality further (more on that later). After weeks of testing the Backspin, I found the blender's novel design, combined with handy automatic presets, makes it easy to use, particularly when pulverizing notoriously stubborn and sticky dips and smoothies. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.Best Blenders We Tested
See at CNET
My time with the Tribest Backspin revealed that it's worth the price for those who covet high-tech kitchen gear and consistently great smoothies without the labor. It's worth noting that the brand is relatively new to the premium blender category, with fewer data points to draw from regarding durability. Let's explore why this premium blender was a hit in my home and how it might work for you. See it at Tribest Contra-rotating design allows for hands-off blending
Its complex design has several advantages, including hands-off blending and excellent emulsion. John Carlsen/CNETAlthough the Tribest Backspin is far from the first vacuum blender, it's the first blender I've seen with a contra-rotating design. This means that the Backspin's blade and canister rotate in opposite directions. One glance at the bottom reveals two sets of motor teeth — metal teeth for the blade and plastic teeth for the container. Around the spinning chamber is an outer container with a handle and measuring lines. This prevents the spinning portion from becoming a safety hazard and makes it easier to use overall. But having two containers also means using two lids.
The large, 65-ounce canister compares very well with most rivals, and the manual has a helpful chart of the recommended limits of most ingredients. John Carlsen/CNETOnce you attach the inner and outer lids, you'll lock the whole container in place on the central unit before folding down the top control panel. In addition to hosting the controls, the top panel anchors both lids and stabilizes the inner container as it rotates. It's also where the built-in vacuum pump connects. This clever design means the blender can essentially stir itself without you scraping or using a tamper, like with rival blenders. I was skeptical, but automatic blending is easily the best feature of the Tribest Backspin. It was so convenient to load up the ingredients for marinara sauce, including fresh tomatoes from my garden, and let the blender run while I gathered everything I needed for spaghetti.
The manual comes with loads of recipes -- all vegan -- so I picked a few to try in addition to things I normally make. John Carlsen/CNETThe Tribest Backspin has three automatic blending presets. Auto is a catch-all mode that blends ingredients for just under 2 minutes, making it great for most scenarios. But you can opt for less blending with Auto Low (about a minute, useful for soft ingredients) or more with Auto High (4 minutes, for tougher foods). There's also a large dial for adjusting the blending speed, but I hardly touched it with any of the automatic presets. The other two buttons are Vacuum and Pulse. Hitting the Vacuum button tells the blender to pump out the air before running. It also has a marinate mode, which I didn't test due to a lack of time. Read more: You Won't Find a Better Budget Smoothie Blender Than the Ninja TwistiPulse is identical to what you'll see on standard blenders for chopping nuts and quick bursts to eliminate lumps. I made some great hazelnut meal with around five pulses. Turning this into a mealy cocoa hazelnut spread was by far the most taxing thing I did with the Backspin. (My inexperience with nut butter shows a little here, but at least it tasted great.) While I didn't experience any issues, I could smell the ozone from the 900-watt motor trying its best.
Vacuum blending bumps the blending quality
It takes about 30 seconds for the Backspin to create a vacuum seal before blending. John Carlsen/CNETThe Backspin's contra-rotation works so well because its vacuum blending feature addresses the tricky problem of cavitation. According to the Science of Cooking, cavitation is an explosive process in which bubbles of gas form due to pressure changes in a liquid moving at high speeds. Cavitation can be beneficial for obliterating food in a blender. But it can also cause air pockets and shockwaves to form around the blades, reducing their contact with the ingredients you want to pulverize. (Cavitation is also so powerful that it can shatter glass, which is a significant reason for powerful modern blenders using plastic canisters.)
The result of vacuum blending is a smoother consistency with little to no froth or foam.  John Carlsen/CNETVacuum blending reduces cavitation by removing air from the blender -- pressure changes are now less likely. Another benefit of vacuum blending is that it reduces oxidation in your food, which can help it last longer, preserve flavors and prevent nutrients from breaking down. While you can use the Tribest Backspin without the vacuum mode (don't hit the Vacuum button when choosing a preset), I found it extremely helpful in almost every recipe I tested. Aside from a frozen banana that I was too impatient to blend more, everything was remarkably smooth and consistent (e.g., better emulsion): sauces, shakes, smoothies, batters and nut butters.
You should experiment with the vacuum function to find what works best for your palate, even if it reduces the level of nutrients. John Carlsen/CNETThat said, some flavors benefit from more oxygen. For example, I loved the marinara sauce with minimal cooking. But my wife — who's not a fan of fresh tomatoes like I am — said it tasted a lot like tomato leaves. Ultimately, I cooked the sauce much longer to break those flavors down into a sauce she didn't mind.
Tribest Backspin's complicated design has a few tradeoffs
As clever as the design is, the extra parts mean more things to clean than with other blenders. John Carlsen/CNETThe smaller inner container lacks a spout and always makes a mess of both containers when pouring out the contents, especially thick liquids. (According to the manual, some liquid leaking into the outer chamber won't affect the blender's performance during operation.) Thankfully, the outer container is easy to clean and everything is suitable for the top rack of a dishwasher. While I like that the blade attaches to the container using a magnet, it's important to double-check that both attachment points are clean to avoid a bad connection or unwanted microorganism growth. Also, I don't recommend removing the blade to make it easier to pour things out, since it holds the inner chamber in place and seals the hole at the same container's bottom. This is a recipe for having the whole thing slide out and making an even bigger mess.
This bulky blender has an impressive 10-year warranty, which is on par with premium brands like Vitamix.  John Carlsen/CNETWith so many goodies, it's unsurprising that the Tribest Backspin has a larger footprint than other blenders I've used — it takes up more counter and cabinet space on average. But the locking canister makes it easy to carry without pieces scattering, unlike my normal blender. I also appreciate that it has a reasonably long cord compared to my other countertop appliances, so there's more freedom with where I can put it. A new design like this won't get everything right. In my tests, I noticed some wear on the top of the inner lid after it loosened slightly during a long blend. It might be because this particular lid doesn't have a rubber seal. Besides that, the blade and canisters showed hardly any wear from my 10 blending sessions. Still, I want to be clear that these design quirks are easy to forgive since they make the Tribest Backspin's performance and unique features possible. The company may develop better solutions in future models, but I'm impressed that the product engineers balanced the complex design with the needs of everyday cooks.
Should you buy the Tribest Backspin?
The Tribest Backspin's contra-rotating design may turn heads, but its vacuum blending ups the ante with excellent results. John Carlsen/CNETThe Tribest Backspin's $500 price tag firmly places it in the premium blender category, so it's probably not suitable for anyone needing a simple workhorse of a blender for under $100. Still, the price isn't as outrageous as premium brands like Vitamix, Blendtec and Breville. It's also a dynamite option for smoothies, with some of the best results I've ever tasted. Ultimately, you decide what works best for your kitchen and budget. For a more affordable option, you won't find a better smoothie blender than CNET's top-rated Ninja Twisti.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.