Booker Prize shortlist for 2025 announced
: NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Booker Prize shortlist for 2025 announced
The 2025 Booker shortlist is made up of works by veteran authors, many of whom have several books under their belts — and a couple that have been on this list before.
Book News & Features
The Booker shortlist honors authors 'in total command' of their craft
September 23, 20253:08 PM ET
Elizabeth Blair
Booker Prize 2025 shortlisted authors (left to right): Susan Choi, Andrew Miller, Kiran Desai, Ben Markovits, Katie Kitamura, David Szalay
Premiere Scotland Ltd.
hide caption
toggle caption
Premiere Scotland Ltd.
The 2025 Booker shortlist is made up of works by veteran authors, most of whom have more than five books to their name. In a statement, author Roddy Doyle, the chair of judges, writes that the shortlisters are "in total command of their own store of English, their own rhythm, their own expertise." Each of the six shortlisted authors receives £2,500 ($3,380) and "a specially bound edition of their book." The Booker Prize winner will be announced Monday, Nov. 10, in a ceremony that will be broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and livestreamed on the Booker Prizes' social channels. The winner will receive £50,000 ($67,600).
Sponsor Message
This year's Booker Shortlist winners are: Flashlight by Susan Choi Susan Choi's sixth novel began as a short story published in The New Yorker.  Inspired by her own experiences growing up in the midwest as the daughter of a Korean father and a Russian-Jewish mother, Choi told NPR Flashlight "kind of wrote itself like a snail shell. It just kept spiraling outward in both directions." The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny by Kiran Desai Desai won the Booker Prize in 2006 for The Inheritance of Loss. She spent almost 20 years writing The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny, a novel about Indians in America that the Booker Prize judges hailed as "a magical realist fable within a social novel within a love story." Audition by Katie Kitamura Kitamura told NPR she got the idea for Audition from a headline that read "A stranger told me he was my son." She said she" was completely captivated by the idea that in a single encounter, in a single moment, everything you understand about yourself and your place in the world could be overturned." A live-action movie adaptation of Audition will star Lucy Liu and Charles Melton. The Rest of Our Lives by Ben Markovits Former professional basketball player Ben Markovits' novel is described by the Booker judges as a "remarkably satisfying road trip full of strangers, friends, and self-discovery." Markovits said in a statement, "My kids were getting older and I wanted to write something about a certain period of family life coming to an end."
Sponsor Message
The Land in Winter by Andrew Miller This is Andrew Miller's 10th novel and his second to make the Booker shortlist (Oxygen made the list in 2001). The book tells the story of two young couples during the U.K.'s Big Freeze of 1962-63; The Guardian wrote that Miller "turns to the difficulty of loving in an unlovely world." Flesh by David Szalay Szalay's second novel to make the Booker shortlist (the first was All That Man Is in 2016) is set in Hungary and follows the young man István from his teen years into adulthood. "Spare and detached on the page, lush in resonance beyond it, Szalay's new novel reads a bit like an immigrant bildungsroman flavored with Albert Camus," writes Colin Dwyer for NPR.
Booker Prize
fiction
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor