These are the Best 65-Inch TVs I've Tested in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TVs
These are the Best 65-Inch TVs I've Tested in 2025
Whether you're upgrading to a bigger TV or replacing an existing model, these 65-inch TVs are perfect for your living room.
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Article updated on September 6, 2025 at 3:00 AM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
TVs range in price from $100 to more than $2,000. Smaller screens are cheaper, well-known brands are more expensive and spending more money can also get you better image quality.
Screen size
Bigger is better in our book. We recommend a size of at least 43 inches for a bedroom TV and at least 55 inches for a living room or main TV -- and 65 inches or larger is best.
Capability
Finding a worthwhile smart TV system is most important for entry-level TVs. High-end TVs are more about picture quality.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
When you're buying a TV, CNET always says go big if you have the space for it. A 65-inch TV might seem large at first, but I consider it the "sweet spot" for most living rooms. It's not too big to crowd or dominate the space, and it offers an immersive watching and gaming experience. It's one of the most common and popular TV sizes out there, so you have plenty of options to choose from.
Our Picks
Best 65-inch TV for most people TCL QM8K
Jump to details
$1,300 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best 65-inch TV you can buy Samsung S95F
Jump to details
$2,997 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget 65-inch TV Samsung DU7200
Jump to details
$380 at Best Buy
Jump to details
TV DEALS OF THE WEEK
75-inch TCL QM6K 4K QD-Mini LED Google TV (2025 Model):  $850 (save $150)
65-inch LG C4 Series 4K 120Hz OLED Evo Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,397 (save $1,303)
75-inch Hisense U7 Series 4K Mini-LED ULED Google Smart TV (2025 Model):  $1,298 (save $702)
77-inch LG C5 Series OLED Evo AI 4K Smart TV (2025 Model):  $2,997 (save $700)
65-inch Samsung S90D Series 4K OLED 144Hz Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,398 (save $300) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
These are the Best 65-Inch TVs I've Tested in 2025
What is the best 65-inch TV right now?
Best 65-inch TVs in 2025
Best 65-inch TV for most people
Best 65-inch TV you can buy
Best 65-inch TV for gaming
Best budget 65-inch TV
TVs I Also Tested
Factors to Consider When Choosing a 65-inch TV
How CNET tests TVs
TV brightness according to CNET's testing
Best 65-inch TV FAQs
To help you find the best 65-inch TV for your living room and your budget, I've rounded up the best models I have reviewed in the CNET lab. What is the best 65-inch TV right now?After testing many of the best TVs for the money, my favorite 65-inch TV for most people in 2025 is the TCL QM8K series. The QM8K offers excellent picture quality that is rapidly approaching the kind of punch that previously only OLED TVs could achieve. The QM8K also includes all the features you need in a modern television -- including 4K/120Hz input and variable refresh rate that can get the most out of consoles like the PS5 and Xbox Series X -- and an affordable price tag. The QM8K is the best way to get a great picture for the least amount of money. On the other hand, if you feel like splurging on the best picture quality possible, then the Samsung S95F is the way to go.Although the QM8K is my current favorite, it might not be right for your preferences or budget. If you want the best TV under $400, the 2024 Samsung DU7200 series is the standout of the ones I've tested.Best 65-inch TVs in 2025
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best 65-inch TV for most people
TCL QM8K
8.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
The TCL QM8K has great picture quality
Very few haloing artifacts
New Filmmaker mode helps create more accurate pictures
Cons
Still bright, but dimmer than the TV it replaced
Worse input lag with games
Who is it best for: The TCL QM8K offers performance that approaches OLED but at a significant discount, making it suited to people who want a great picture for the least amount of money.Performance: TCL has topped our list of the best TVs for the past few years, but the latest 2025 TCL QM8K raises the bar even higher, especially for fans of 4K resolution. In my comparison tests, the QM8 distinguished itself with superior color and shadow detail without sacrificing the deep contrast that is crucial for 4K viewing. This performance is largely thanks to its advanced mini-LED technology and effective full-array local dimming.Overview: The TCL is great in a lot of ways, performance and affordability are at the top of the list, but if you're a gamer this may not be the best TV for you as it's a little slower than less-processing hungry TVs like the Samsung DU7200.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,300 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Sizes
65-, 75-, 85-, 98-inchesTV technology
Mini-LEDSmart TV
Yes (Google TV)Resolution
4KRefresh rate
144HzHDMI ports
4
Learn more
TCL QM8K
review
Add to compare
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/2
Josh Goldman/CNET
Best 65-inch TV you can buy
Samsung S95F
8.9
/10
SCORE
Pros
Best overall image quality we've tested
Best-in-class glare reduction in a bright room
Superior contrast and off-angle viewing
Ultrathin panel with external input box
Cons
Expensive compared to other OLED TVs
Slightly diminished contrast in bright rooms
Who is it best for: If you're looking for the best possible picture and don't mind paying for it, the Samsung S95F stands out in the 4K OLED TV market. It's great for home theater fans, but is also suited for use in shared living areas because of its great performance in lit rooms. Performance: The picture quality of the S95F is among the best you can get right now with saturated colors, excellent contrast and ultra-fine detail. Part of its success is thanks to its matte finish that nearly eliminates reflections, making it the best OLED TV for 4K viewing in brightly lit rooms. While matte screens are common in non-OLED models, the S95F is one of the few OLED TVs to sport one, boosting what is already the best picture available for 4K viewing. Overview: The Samsung S95F offers unparalleled 4K image quality, beating any other non-OLED TV I've compared it against. The main downside is that it still costs a ton, and most people -- even those with bright rooms -- will be perfectly happy with a less expensive TV.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,997 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Sizes
55-, 65-, 77-inchesTV technology
OLEDSmart TV
Yes (Tizen OS)Resolution
4KRefresh rate
144HzHDMI ports
4
Learn more
Samsung S95F review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best 65-inch TV for gaming
Samsung S90F OLED TV
8.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
The Samsung S90F boasts excellent image quality
Fast motion for gamers
Cons
It's expensive
It lacks the step-up model's glare free coating
Who is it best for: The Samsung S90F offers the holy grail for gamers -- excellent picture quality, fast response times and high brightness -- and at a much more affordable price than the step-up S95F.Performance: With lag times under 10ms it's about as fast as a TV with this level of picture quality can get, and with support for 144Hz VRR there's no screen tearing or other immersion-destroying artifacts. It's also great for just watching movies with deep, deep black levels and very finely saturated colors.Overview: At its current $1,600 price on sale there is very little else to compete with the S90F, as not even the TCL QM8K can offer the same kind of picture quality or amount of gaming chops.  ... Show more
Learn more
Samsung S90F OLED TV review
David Katzmaier
Photo Gallery 1/1
David Katzmaier
Best budget 65-inch TV
Samsung DU7200
7.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
One of the best pictures you'll get under $500
Excellent response times for gaming
This TV boasts excellent black levels and shadow detail
Cons
Reds are slightly desaturated
Interface is less user-friendly than a Roku TV
Who is it best for: Whether you're a gamer or just want a TV that will fit in the bedroom the Samsung DU7200 is a really good choice. It has a pretty punchy picture for the money and plenty of streaming options.Performance:
The Samsung DU7200 is a TV that delivers a really good picture for an affordable price. The black levels and shadow detail are excellent for the money, and while my test unit looked a little desaturated out of the box that was easily fixed by adjusting the Color control. The TV has onboard streaming and the sound quality isn't too bad either. Overview: In terms of the best bang-for-buck, one of the most impressive models has been the Samsung DU7200. If you're looking for a bedroom unit or a smaller gaming TV then the Samsung DU7200 is the model I would choose. Don't buy it if you're a stickler for image quality but for the price it's pretty great.  ... Show more
Get it now
$380 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Sizes
43-, 50-, 55-, 65-, 70-, 75-, 85-inchTV technology
LEDSmart TV
Samsung TizenResolution
4KRefresh rate
60HzHDMI ports
3 Score Breakdown
Design
7
Features
7
Performance
7
Value
10
Overall
7.9
Learn more
Samsung DU7200 review
Add to compareTVs I Also Tested
Hisense U8N Ty Pendlebury/CNETLG G5: The LG G5 is a fantastic television with the brightest OLED screen I have ever tested. If you want the best of both world's -- OLED's deep blacks but with the pop of an LCD -- then the G5 is the way to go. Read CNET's review of the LG G5.Hisense U8N: If you're looking for the best TV for the money, and the TCL QM8 is significantly more expensive at the time you read this, the Hisense U8N should be your go-to. I compared the two TVs side by side, and while I liked the QM8 just a bit better, the U8K is an excellent choice as well. Read CNET's review of the Hisense U8N.LG C5: The LG C5 is a great TV with all of the shadow detail, contrast and color accuracy you could want for, but ... the availability of the C4 (half the price) and the G5 (even better for a few hundred more) means that you can currently skip the C5. Read CNET's review of the LG C5.Panasonic Z95A: The Panasonic Z95A is an excellent TV and it has one advantage over most at the price because of its dedicated speaker system, giving it decent sound quality. The inclusion of Amazon Fire TV is unusual for the high price, and I prefer Google TV. Read CNET's hands-on of the Panasonic Z95A.Samsung S90D: The S90D performed well in our measurement tests but it suffered some contrast loss compared to the C4. Any differences between the C4 and S90D were subtle. Read CNET's full review of the Samsung S90D. Factors to Consider When Choosing a 65-inch TV
With all of the TVs available today, and all of the technical terms and jargon associated with television technology, it can be tough to figure out what's important. Here's a quick guide to help cut through the confusion.Picture quality: Broadly speaking, the type of display technology helps dictate how good a TV's picture quality is, but OLED is typically the best display technology, and this is followed by LCD (including QLED, and Mini LED). OLED tends to look the best because it doesn't need a backlight, and every pixel can be either on or off, leading to great black levels. In comparison, each LED in a backlight illuminates multiple pixels at a time so it isn't as precise -- it's not yet 1:1. Even so, look for full-array local dimming, mini-LED and 120Hz refresh rate, which (unlike some other extras) do help improve the picture in my experience. Additionally, if a TV uses Quantum Dots it often leads to better color performance, whether it's an OLED or an LCD.Price: TVs range in price from $100 to more than $2,000. Smaller screens are cheaper, well-known brands are more expensive and spending more money can also get you better image quality. Most entry-level TVs have a good enough picture for most people, but TVs last a long time so it might be worth spending more to get a better picture. It's also best to shop for a TV in the fall when prices are lower.Screen size: Bigger is better in our book. We recommend a size of at least 43 inches for a bedroom TV and at least 55 inches for a living room or main TV and 65 inches or larger is best. Stepping up in TV screen size is a better use of your money than any feature. One of the most common complaints we've heard is from people who regret that they didn't go big enough when they bought a TV. We almost never hear people complain that their TV is too large.Brightness: One of the biggest variables when buying a TV is how bright it can get. In general, LCD and LED tend to be the brightest types with up to 3,000 nits of brightness in my testing, which is very bright. As a comparison, HDR streaming on Netflix is usually capped at 1,000 nits, and this is enough for most people. Paying more for a TV usually means you're paying for a brighter picture, and 4K Blu-rays and consoles can make the most of this extra brightness.Features: Among entry-level TVs the most important feature is what kind of smart TV system the TV uses. Among midrange models, look for a feature including full-array local dimming, mini-LED and 120Hz refresh rate, which (unlike some other extras) do help improve the picture in our experience. Among high-end TVs, OLED technology is your best bet. How CNET tests TVs
Bobby Oliver/CNETIn every CNET TV review, I compare three or more similar TVs side by side in a dedicated, light-controlled test lab. With each review I employ a rigorous, unbiased evaluation process that has been honed in more than two decades of TV reviews. I test TVs with a combination of scientific measurements and real-world evaluations of TV, movies and gaming content.To ensure I can evaluate the picture quality of every TV I employ the use of an AVPro Connect 8x8 4K HDR splitter so each one receives the same signal. I test the TVs using various lighting conditions playing different media, including 4K HDR movies and console games, across a variety of test categories, from color to video processing to gaming to HDR.To measure each TV, I use specialized equipment to grade according to light output and color. My hardware includes a Konica Minolta CS-2000 spectroradiometer and a Murideo Six-G 4K HDR signal generator. I use Portrait Displays CalMan Ultimate software to evaluate every TV I review according to its brightness, black levels and color.My reviews also account for such things as features, design, smart TV performance, connectivity including HDMI inputs and gaming compatibility. TV brightness according to CNET's testing
One important aspect of image quality I test is overall brightness using the CS-2000 spectroradiometer. Here's how brightness compares in nits across select TVs listed above. undefined
TV Brightest mode (HDR)Accurate mode (HDR)Brightest mode (SDR)Accurate mode (SDR)TCL QM8K 3,0113,0113,038196Hisense U8N 3,1753,1753,1681,112LG OLED G5 2,8132.2971,030412Samsung S95F 2,1502,150391297LG OLED C4 1,213968414390TCL QM6K 655584644644
Check out how we test TVs for more details.
Take a Tour Inside CNET's TV Test Lab
+13 More
See all photos
For more TV advice, check out our guide to buying a TV. Best 65-inch TV FAQs
How much should I spend on a 65-inch TV?
Prices for 65-inch TVs vary widely by technology type and features, from less than $400 for TVs like the Samsung DU7200 to more than $2,000 for OLED models. TVs last a long time so I think it's worthwhile to spend a little extra beyond the bare minimum to get a bigger screen, better picture quality or better features. With that in mind, $1,000 is a ballpark price for a very good 65-inch TV in 2025.You could pay (much) more or less. The fact is, just about any TV will produce a picture decent enough to satisfy most viewers. Most complaints you read in user reviews aren't about picture quality. Instead, they're about ease of use, smart TV menus or sound (or a broken TV).
Show more
How far back should you sit from a 65-inch TV?
Only a few years ago a 65-inch TV was considered "big", but now, 85- and even 100-inch TVs are surprisingly affordable. That said, there are a number of recommendations for seating distance from a 65-inch but the most realistic is from the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers. It says that your TV needs to be around 3/5ths in diagonal of the seating distance. So for a 65-inch screen you need to be at least 8.66 feet away. Even closer than that is better.
Show more
What size room is best for a 65 inch TV?
It depends on your room size, seating distance and personal taste. For a standard living room or larger bedroom, a 65-inch TV is excellent, but for massive rooms, we recommend a larger TV, say a 75- or even 85-inch model, if you can afford it. If you sit closer to the screen you don't need as large a TV for the best experience. For maximum theatrical impact, according to THX and SMPTE, you should be between 6.5 and 9 feet from a 65-inch screen, although many viewers will find it more comfortable to sit a bit further back than that. Nearly every 65-inch TV has 4K resolution, and if you have 20/20 vision you can sit as close as about 4 feet and still not discern individual pixels.
Show more
How wide is a 65-inch TV?
Most 65-inch TVs measure between 56 and 58 inches wide. Because the frames around newer TV screens are typically quite narrow, 65-inch TV widths don't vary much. Models with slim frames are on the lower end -- the 65-inch LG C3 measures 56.7 inches wide for example, while the thicker-framed 65-inch TCL 4-Series is 57.4 inches wide. If you're not planning to wall-mount the TV, you generally want the piece of furniture supporting the TV to measure at least as wide as the TV itself, and preferably a few inches wider. Refer to the manufacturer's website for the exact dimensions of a particular 65-inch TV.
Show more
How much does a 65-inch TV weigh?
A 65-inch TV weighs between 37 and 75 pounds with its stand, but this varies significantly depending on the type of TV. Removing the stand -- which often consists of a pair of little legs under the panel -- allows you to wall-mount the TV and reduces its weight slightly (stands weigh between 1 and 8 pounds). Shipping weight (box, accessories, etc.) of 65-inch TVs ranges from 45 to 91 pounds. Refer to the manufacturer's website for the exact weights of a particular 65-inch TV.
Show more
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
CNET TV Coverage
TV Types
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best Gaming TV
Best TV Deals
Best 4k TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best OLED TV Deals
Best Apple TV Deals
TV Sizes
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best 55-Inch TV
Best 43-Inch TV
Best 32-Inch TV
Streaming & TV Accessories
CNET Streaming TV Insider
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
TV Information
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
HDMI vs Optical
TV Resolutions Explained
LCD vs OLED
How to Connect a VCR to Your New TV
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.