How to Clean a Keurig Coffee Maker (and Maintain It, Too)
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
How to Clean a Smelly Washing Machine
How to Clean an Air Fryer
How to Clean Stainless Steel Appliances
How to Clean Your Kitchen, Step by Step
How to Clean a Dishwasher
How to Clean Each Part of Your Instant Pot
How to Make a DIY Coffee Scrub
How to Clean and Care for a Coffee Maker
How to Clean a Microwave With Everyday Household Items
How to Clean a Roasting Pan
How to Clean and Care for an Immersion Blender
How to Clean a Toaster
How to Clean Stainless Steel Pots and Pans
Clean Your Dirty Laundry Detergent Cup with This Genius Trick
How to Clean a Coffee Filter (and Why You Need To)
How to Clean a Sponge—Because It's Really, Really Dirty
How to Clean Your Travel Mug—and Why You Should
How to Clean Every Kitchen Item and Appliance
How to Clean a Water Bottle (And Why Yes, You Really Need To)
eshphoto/GETTY IMAGES
Home
Home & Living
Cleaning & Organizing
Cleaning Tips
How to Clean a Keurig Coffee Maker (Because Yours Probably Needs It!)
eshphoto/GETTY IMAGES
By
Lauren Pahmeier
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Jul. 06, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Get the most out of your single-serve coffee maker—and enjoy the best-tasting coffee—by learning how to clean a Keurig.
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
If your Keurig coffee maker is serving up K-cup goodness for more than one person more than once a day, read on. Sure, frequent coffee drinking does have its benefits, but using your Keurig daily—without taking the time to care for or maintain it—can have some pretty icky side effects.
Why do you need to clean a Keurig?
Cleaning a Keurig is a health and safety precaution. Like any other type of coffee maker, a Keurig can grow mold if it’s not properly drained, rinsed and cleaned. Aside from keeping mold and bacteria at bay, your Keurig should be cleaned on a regular basis so that it can perform to the best of its ability. A quick clean-up will remove the mineral buildup in the machine that affects the taste and quality of the coffee being brewed. A clean Keurig produces better-quality coffee.
How often should you clean your Keurig?
Sheri Kaz For Taste of Home
Keurig highly recommends descaling a Keurig every three to six months. This should help prevent calcium deposits or scale buildup from occurring. The other parts of the Keurig should be given more regular attention, though. If you brew a K-cup every day, then the Keurig’s exterior, cold water reservoir, drip tray and pod holder should all be cleaned once a week.
It might seem like one more chore to add to the list, but cleaning your Keurig regularly will extend the life of your machine and keep your morning (and afternoon and evening) cup of coffee tasting fresh and strong.
MARK DERSE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Shopping Break
Our Editors Found the Best Single-Serve Coffee Makers
Sometimes you need only one really good cup of coffee. That's why we found the best single-serve machines for every brew style and budget.
Meet the WinnerSee All Our Top Picks
What to clean Keurig with?
There are a few different options for cleaning your Keurig. Household items like vinegar, water and citric acid work well (we walk you through how to use them below). When in doubt, Keurig cleaning pods or a descaling solution are available. They remove mineral buildup and get your Keurig brewing like new in minutes.
How to Clean Your Keurig
Taste of Home
Tools and Supplies
Keurig sells everything you need to keep your machine in tip-top shape—conveniently available in one easy-to-order package. Each item is also available individually. The Keurig 3-month maintenance kit includes:
Keurig rinse pods: These Keurig rinse pods are just like coffee pods, except instead of dispensing coffee, they descale the machine and remove residue buildup from the pod holder. Pop one in the pod holder, brew a large cup and dump whatever pours out. Then, run a large brew cycle with water only to rinse away the cleaning solution. These are especially handy to use before brewing a delicate drink like tea.
Keurig descaler: It may take a little longer, but Keurig descaler is always a good option. It’s formulated with citric acid to safely clean the brewer. Just pour it into the empty water reservoir, add water and run several brew cycles to clean the machine thoroughly.
Water filter cartridge: Finish your Keurig cleaning cycle by adding a water filter cartridge to the reservoir. It removes chlorine from the water tank, leaving you with great-tasting coffee. Each cartridge lasts up to two months.
Directions
Follow these steps when properly learning how to clean your Keurig. Once you learn how to do it, you’ll remember the steps every time you clean. The first time, make sure to take a peek at your specific Keurig model’s recommendations to see if certain parts (like the water reservoir) can go in the dishwasher or not.
Step 1: Take apart your Keurig
In order to clean everything as thoroughly as possible, you will want to disassemble your Keurig. You should be able to remove the drip tray, the water reservoir and lid, and the K-cup pod holder.
Step 2: Wash removable parts and reassemble
After taking everything apart, wash the water reservoir with soap and water, and rinse thoroughly (because you don’t want soapy coffee!). Let the reservoir drip dry in order to avoid lint sticking to the sides that could eventually end up in your coffee cup.
Take this opportunity to clean out the needles that pierce your K-cup every morning, too. Take a straightened paper clip to loosen any coffee grounds that have gotten stuck.
Then, take a damp, soapy, lint-free cloth to wipe down the drip tray and the K-cup pod holder. After you reassemble, wipe down the exterior of your machine as well.
Step 3: Descale the Keurig
Every three months or so, take an additional step and descale the Keurig. Scale forms when calcium hardens, and mineral deposits dry up within water. When you fill up a Keurig with water that has a high level of mineral content, it can cause buildup in the brewer and prevent it from working correctly. It also impacts the taste of your coffee. Yuck! But don’t worry. You can descale a Keurig using a few different methods:
How to Clean a Keurig with Keurig Cleaning Solution
Taste of Home
Keurig has created and officially approved its own Keurig descaling solution, which is made for all Keurig 2.0 and 1.0 K-cup coffee makers, from the K-Elite to the K-Mini Plus.
Unplug and turn off the machine, then fill the water reservoir with one part Keurig descaler and one part water. Place a coffee mug underneath the dispenser and brew one cup of hot water. Pour the water out once it’s done, replace the mug and repeat this step until all the water is gone out of the reservoir. Rinse the water reservoir, fill it up with fresh water, brew 3-4 additional cups of hot water and pour it out. Voila! A descaled Keurig. If you have the Keurig K-Duo, you’ll want to repeat this process with the carafe side, too.
How to Clean a Keurig with Vinegar and Water
Fill the water reservoir to the halfway mark with white distilled vinegar, which is key to removing scale buildup, and fill the other half with water. Begin the brew cycle sans K-cup, and repeat until the entire reservoir is empty. Once the water reservoir is completely empty, repeat with plain water to flush out the vinegar taste. (Seriously, what can’t vinegar clean!?)
How to Clean a Keurig with Citric Acid
Like vinegar, citric acid is great for sanitizing a Keurig, and a simple homemade way to get rid of any scale that’s formed. You can find citric acid at spice shops or in your grocer’s canning aisle—or on Amazon.
Prepare a citric acid solution by combining one to two tablespoons of citric acid with about four cups of water, and pour it into the water reservoir. Place a coffee mug underneath the drainage spout and brew a cup of hot water, then pour it out and repeat the step. Fill up the water reservoir with water again, and keep brewing until there’s nothing left in the reservoir.
How to Maintain a Keurig Between Cleanings
Taste of Home
Keurig Rinse Pods
Keurig rinse pods are just the thing to keep your Keurig fresh weekly without doing a lot of work. To use, simply place a large mug on the Keurig drip tray. Lift the handle and insert a Keurig Rinse Pod, just like you would with a coffee capsule. Brew the rinse pod on the eight-ounce brew setting. Remove and discard the rinse pod and the brewed rinse solution, then do an eight-ounce water brew to completely rinse. Done!
You’ll taste the difference, especially if you use a variety of flavored coffee and tea pods. No more cross-contamination between chai teas and cinnamon roll coffee flavors. You can also buy non-Keurig branded cleaning pods on Amazon.
Keurig Water Cartridge Refills
If your tap water has a lot of chlorine, it will impact the taste of your coffee. Never fear. Keurig water cartridges help remove chlorine from the Keurig tank. For best results, replace the cartridge every two months or after 60 tank refills. Six water filter cartridges should last about a year, depending on how much coffee you’re brewing. And if you have a Keurig, we’re guessing you brew a lot of coffee!
When to Replace Your Keurig
TASTE OF HOME
Most Keurig customers say that their machines typically last for three to five years. But here are some other signs that might let you know when to replace your Keurig before then:
Your coffee doesn’t come out piping hot: If your Keurig is brewing lukewarm coffee, get a new Keurig you can count on. Or opt for one of our picks for the best single-serve coffee maker, as reviewed by our Product Testing Team.
Your Keurig takes more than a few minutes to brew a cup: Keurigs are built for speed! If your machine is struggling to keep up with your busy schedule, it might be time to move on.
Your coffee is too watered down, or your Keurig is leaky: You don’t actually want your coffee to taste like bean water.
By knowing the best ways how to clean a Keurig coffee maker, you’ll extend the life of your beloved caffeine machine. Sparkling clean, it will be one of your favorite appliances in the kitchen.
Wondering how to clean other kitchen appliances? We also have guides on how to clean a microwave, how to clean an air fryer and how to clean the oven and dishwasher.
Author
Lauren Pahmeier
Lauren is an editor at Taste of Home, focusing on search engine optimization. When she’s not pitching, writing or making sure that readers can find TOH’s recipes on Google, she’s consistently trying new (healthy-ish) recipes, staying as active as possible to make up for her sweet tooth, and exploring all the coffee shops that Milwaukee has to...
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box