Cloud Computing Concepts Hub | AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Home›
Products
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
The Cloud Computing Concepts Hub is the centralized place where you can browse or search for informative articles about cloud computing. You'll find easy-to-understand info about broad topics such as "What is Machine Learning?" and "What is Data Science?" These articles are intended to help you up-level your understanding of frequently asked cloud computing topics.
Most popular cloud computing concepts
What is AI?
Artificial intelligence (AI) is the field of computer science dedicated to solving cognitive problems commonly associated with human intelligence, such as learning, creation, and image recognition. Modern organizations collect large volumes of data from diverse sources like smart sensors, human-generated content, monitoring tools, and system logs. The goal with AI is to create self-learning systems that derive meaning from data. Then, AI can apply that knowledge to solve new problems in human-like ways.
Read more about Artificial Intelligence here
What is Prompt Engineering?
Prompt engineering is the process where you guide generative AI, which requires detailed instructions, solutions to generate desired outputs. In prompt engineering, you choose the most appropriate formats, phrases, words, and symbols that guide the AI to interact with your users more meaningfully. Prompt engineers use creativity plus trial and error to create a collection of input texts, so an application's generative AI works as expected.
Read more about Prompt Engineering here
What is Generative AI?
Generative artificial intelligence is a type of AI that can create new content and ideas, including conversations, stories, images, videos, and music. AI technologies attempt to mimic human intelligence in nontraditional computing tasks like image recognition, natural language processing (NLP), and translation. Generative AI can be trained to learn human language, programming languages, or any complex subject matter. It reuses training data to solve new problems. Generative AI can be used for various purposes, like chatbots, media creation, and product development and design.
Read more about Generative AI here
What is Conversational AI?
Conversational artificial intelligence is a technology that makes software capable of understanding and responding to voice-based or text-based human conversations. Conversational AI goes beyond the traditional human chat with software which has been limited to preprogrammed inputs where users enter or speak predetermined commands. Conversational AI can recognize all types of speech and text input, mimic human interactions, and understand and respond to queries in various languages.
Read more about Conversational AI here
Browse all cloud computing concepts
Browse all cloud computing concepts content here:
Loading
Loading
Loading
Loading
Loading
Learn more about cloud comparisons
The Cloud Comparisons page features content that helps readers understand common use cases for when to use one cloud solution or another. Compare and contrast cloud solutions and learn the nuances of different use cases that work best for your situation.
Learn about cloud comparisons
Get started
Companies of all sizes across all industries are transforming their businesses every day using AWS. Contact our experts and start your own AWS Cloud journey today.
Contact Sales
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.