OnePlus' flagship earbuds are a great buy at full price - and now they're on sale for $30 off | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
OnePlus' flagship earbuds are a great buy at full price - and now they're on sale for $30 off
The OnePlus Buds Pro 3 introduce several improvements, including better audio output and a longer-lasting battery.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 1:00 a.m. PT
OnePlus Buds Pro 3 OnePlus/ZDNETBuy the OnePlus Buds Pro 3 for $150 (save $30) Save $30
2/5 Editor's deal rating $149.99 at OnePlus You don't have to shell out the big bucks for studio-grade audio. Plenty of top-notch headphones and earbuds cost less than $200, and the OnePlus Buds Pro 3 is a key example. And thanks to a new Back to College sales event on OnePlus' website, this pair of earbuds is currently on sale for $150, a $30 discount. This deal applies to all three color options: Midnight Opus (black), Lunar Radiance (white), and Sapphire Blue. With purchase, you'll also receive a charging case, a Type-C charging cable, a user manual, and four pairs of eartips ranging from extra small to large.
Save $30
Buy the OnePlus Buds Pro 3 for $150 (save $30)
$149.99 at OnePlus The OnePlus Buds Pro 3 are a solid pair of earbuds, well-earning their flagship status. They have a similar design and appearance to the previous generation, the OnePlus Pro 2, but introduce several internal upgrades. They have the same set of drivers, consisting of a 6mm tweeter and an 11mm woofer. However, this pair has been custom-engineered with Dynaudio for high-quality audio. Christian de Looper, a contributor for our sister site PCMag, pointed out that the earbuds send out deeper bass and clearer highs than the Pro 2. PCMag: OnePlus Buds Pro 3 reviewAnother notable change is the charging case. Instead of the big, bulky box seen with the Pro 2, this model has a slimmer, more egg-shaped case that measures 64.70 x 52.45 x 25.75mm and weighs a little over 50g. Many of the lauded features from the older model return with the Pro 3, such as the powerful active noise cancelling, spatial audio, and a Transparency mode to let users hear the world around them.The OnePlus Pro 3 also introduces a few new tricks. For example, the newer earbuds can last up to 43 hours on a single charge with the case instead of 39 hours. It also supports Bluetooth 5.4 for fast wireless connectivity and AI Translation, which enables translation in real time, but only when used with select OnePlus phones, such as the OnePlus 13.How I rated this deal$30 off a $180 purchase is a decent discount. That's about 16%. As per ZDNET's rating system, I have to grant this promotion a score of 2/5. I've seen better in the past, but I'm not the type to look a gift horse in the mouth. I recommend this for anyone looking for a good pair of earbuds that won't break the bank.
When will this deal expire?
As per OnePlus, this offer will end on September 21, 2025.However, deals are subject to sell out or expire at any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on a deal, but don't fret -- we constantly find new chances to save and share them with you on ZDNET.com.
Show more
How do we rate deals at ZDNET?
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals are chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gap
These subtle AirPods Pro 3 upgrades would make them an instant buy for me
The Nothing Ear 3 have a clever feature I wish my other earbuds had - and they're less than $180
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use