Best Smart Home Gyms for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Fitness Equipment
Best Smart Home Gyms, as Recommended by a Fitness Expert
If I had to build a smart home gym, this is the training equipment I would pick.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Article updated on September 3, 2025 at 2:46 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Budget
Smart home gyms can be expensive. Keep in mind how much you're willing to invest.
Space
Consider the space you have to mount a smart home gym.
Versatility
Consider all the functions offered by the smart home gym, such as classes and interchangeable accessories.
Membership
Most smart home gyms come with a monthly membership. Consider the cost of this and how many users can sign up.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Adjusting a training session to your daily routine can prove tricky, but if you want to start strength training, whether it's with help from guided classes or not, a smart home gym setup might be worth the investment. From AI-powered trainers to sleek workout mirrors and compact all-in-one machines, today's options are surprisingly versatile. I've spent years testing fitness gear and have narrowed it down based on cost, size, included memberships and overall performance. These are the best smart home gyms that live up to the hype and are worth every penny. Our Picks
Best smart home gym for strength training with free weights Tempo Studio
Jump to details
$1,668 at Tempo
Jump to details
Best smart treadmill NordicTrack Commercial 2450
Jump to details
$2,499 at NordicTrack
Jump to details
Best smart rowing machine Peloton Row
Jump to details
$3,295 at Peloton
Jump to details
Best smart exercise bike Peloton Bike
Jump to details
$1,145 at Peloton
Jump to details
Best smart home gym for serious weightlifters Tonal 2
Jump to details
$4,295 at Tonal
Jump to details
FITNESS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 42mm, Black, S/M 130-180mm, Sports Band):  $299 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Wi-Fi, 40mm, S/M Green):  $199 (save $101)
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $72 (save $39)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $190 (save $110)
Fitbit Charge 6 Fitness Tracker (Black):  $110 (save $50) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Smart Home Gyms, as Recommended by a Fitness Expert
What is the best overall smart home gym?
Best smart home gyms for 2025
Best smart home gym for strength training with free weights
Best smart treadmill
Best smart rowing machine
Best smart exercise bike
Best smart home gym for serious weightlifters
How we test smart home gym equipment
Factors to consider when choosing a smart home gym
Best practices for smart home gyms
Latest updatesAug. 1, 2025: We updated this list to reflect equipment that is still available and removed discontinued products. We updated Tonal to Tonal 2 and removed the NordicTrack Commercial 14.9 elliptical because it has been discontinued.What is the best overall smart home gym?Our roundup includes the best pieces of equipment across various categories: mirrors, bikes, rowing machines, treadmills and the like. These aren't comparable and there is no winner, but every product listed is the best in its category based on my expertise and rigorous testing.Best smart home gyms for 2025
Gianmarco Chumbe/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Gianmarco Chumbe/ CNET
Best smart home gym for strength training with free weights
Tempo Studio
Pros
Live and on-demand classes: HIIT, bodyweight cardio, yoga, boxing and more
3D sensors help correct your form and challenge you
Neatly stores all your weights and accessories
Cons
Expensive at $1,668
Requires a lot of room
Membership is an additional cost, starting at $139 a month
May not be challenging enough for more experienced lifters
What we like about it: The Tempo Studio is a smart home gym that resembles an armoire, meant to blend in with your home. It's an ideal smart home gym to own, whether you're new or experienced with strength training. The Tempo Studio's basic package comes well-equipped with two dumbbell bars, weight collars and five sets of weight plates from 1.25 to 25 pounds.The Tempo Studio is designed to hold all of its equipment neatly, so you won't need to worry about it being spread across your living room floor. The top part of the studio consists of the touchscreen, while the bottom part has a cabinet that stows the weight plates out of sight. The back of the Tempo Studio has slot-like compartments that hold the barbell and dumbbell bars securely and safely in place. I recommend making sure you have room for the Tempo Studio before purchasing because the stand itself is large, and you also need an additional 6 feet of space in front of the screen so your body can be detected during a workout. What makes the Tempo Studio stand out as ideal for strength training is that it uses artificial intelligence with 3D sensors to provide feedback on your form and movement during class. It can also count your reps and detect the dumbbell weights you're using. I was impressed by the feedback it gave me while doing a leg workout. Although it can be challenging to stay within the 6-foot parameters of the screen, the device can detect your movement and tell you if your form needs improvement or if it's on par. It can also read the weights you're using and recommend whether you should go heavier or lighter next time. It functions like a personal trainer and is helpful if you're new to strength training or want reinforcement on your form with certain exercises.There are various live and on-demand classes you can choose from, including HIIT, bodyweight strength, bodyweight cardio, weightlifting, yoga, boxing, stretching and meditation. Additionally, you can customize your workout experience by creating a program based on how many days a week you want to work out and for how long, and you can split them up by body part and rest days. If you want to exercise without personalization, you can still filter the collection of workouts by activity, modifications needed (for example: lower-back friendly, pregnancy-safe), the coach and equipment.Who it’s best for: The Tempo is best for someone who wants to strength train at home and wants a personal trainer feel to their workouts. If you have the room for it, it makes a great addition to an existing or new home gym. It comes with all the equipment you could need and stores away easily and neatly. Compared to some other smart home gyms, the Tempo personalizes your experience and gives you a taste of group fitness classes so you never get bored. The Tempo Studio memberships start at $139 (including a $100 equipment fee) a month with a 12-month commitment. After 12 months, the equipment is yours to keep, and the monthly cost is $39 for the training subscription. It lets you create up to six profiles, so everyone in your home can use it. Tempo also has an app that you can download (available for iOS and Android) and use while you're traveling.Who should avoid it: I would not recommend this smart home gym if you have limited space because it is 6 feet x 2 feet 2 inches x 1 foot 4 inches and weighs 100 pounds without the weights or accessories. Instead, if you really want to try the Tempo and have a small area to work with, I’d opt for the Tempo Move (the smaller version of the Studio). The Tempo Studio is an investment, so it’s not worth buying if strength training isn’t your preferred form of exercise.   ... Show more
Get it now
$1,668 at Tempo
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best smart treadmill
NordicTrack Commercial 2450
Pros
All heights can comfortably use this treadmill
Sleek look, with a giant 22-inch touchscreen
AutoAdjust technology simulates exercising outdoors
iFit membership offers a variety of classes at $39 a month
Cons
Expensive at $2,499
Requires a lot of space
What we like about it: The NordicTrack Commercial 2450 is our pick for the best smart treadmill. This treadmill is large but its size makes it versatile for tall and short individuals. It has a 22-inch HD touchscreen that tilts and pivots so you can adjust it for different uses, like if you want to take a workout class on the floor. The good news is that it does fold up, so you can prop up the belt when it's not in use. This treadmill has the ability to incline from zero to 15% and decline down to -3%. Runners and walkers can enjoy this treadmill because the speed goes from zero to 12 miles per hour. If you like interval training, the NordicTrack Commercial 2450 also has quick-touch control buttons on the console, which makes it easier to adjust your speed.One of iFit's stand-out features is that you can create your own trail using Google Maps to exercise anywhere in the world. Also impressive is NordicTrack's AutoAdjust technology, which allows an iFit virtual instructor to adjust your incline and speed during class. You could be running or walking in the jungle, and you'll notice the treadmill adjust to replicate that terrain. The same applies when you run on your own and choose your own location on Google Maps. This hands-free option lets you focus on the class without having to fuss with any buttons. It's also a good way for runners who need to train for a race to get the outdoor feel indoors. Who it’s best for: This treadmill is best for the serious runner who wants a real-life feel to their runs. The fact that NordicTrack uses AutoAdjust Technology is a good way to get a real feel during your run, even if you aren’t outside. The large 22-inch screen also gives you the ultimate experience during your workout. Like all NordicTrack equipment, you will need an iFit membership that costs $39 a month for a family plan or $15 a month for an individual plan. You'll have access to live and on-demand classes (also available in the iFit app), so you can enjoy a variety of workouts on and off the treadmill. The treadmill uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth so you can connect workout headphones, a smartwatch or a heart rate monitor.Who should avoid it: This treadmill may not appeal to someone who is just trying to get a daily walk or jog in. You may find the bells and whistles on this treadmill to be a bit much if you aren’t as used to the latest forms of technology and aren’t planning on using it for serious mileage. Another downside is its size, 77.3 x 37 x 63.4 inches, which takes up a lot of space and may not work if you have limited room in your home.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,499 at NordicTrack
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best smart rowing machine
Peloton Row
Pros
Quiet, which is appropriate if you live in an apartment
Form Assist teaches you how to row and improves form
Easy to operate if you're familiar with Peloton programs
Cons
Expensive for a rowing machine at $4,295
Large and may not fit all spaces at 8 x 2 feet
What we like about it: Peloton created the first smart rowing machine that teaches you how to row and corrects your form. Using this machine made me more aware of my rowing form, which I appreciated. It's appropriate for people of all heights and has a weight capacity of 300 pounds. The Peloton Row 24-inch HD touchscreen easily rotates for those times you want to work out on the floor while using your All-Access Peloton membership (an additional $44 a month). The Peloton Row provides a unique rowing experience that you won't get with other rowing machines. This rowing machine has sensors that detect the position of the handle and seat. The sensors help when calibrating your rowing form, which is important when taking a class because it ties into the Form Assist feature. Form Assist provides real-time feedback on your form using the sensors from the calibration process. During class, an image of a digital person on a rowing machine shows up on the screen and moves in sync with you.If your form is off, Form Assist alerts you by highlighting a specific body part in red where the stroke needs correction. You'll be able to see your form rating score at the end of class, which tells you how well you rowed, as well as where you made errors and tips on how to correct them. Who it’s best for: This rowing machine is ideal if you’re a beginner, have some experience with rowing but want to improve or are already a Peloton member. Although the price tag is steep ($3,295), the Peloton Row stands by its promise of making you a better rower. This machine is large, so you will need to make sure that you have room for it in your home. It’s also a quiet machine for being such a big rower, which is beneficial if you live in an apartment. During the workout, you’ll love how you can see the body parts you’re working and where you could use improvement with the data provided at the end of your workout. I improved my form after several sessions of working out on this rowing machine.Who should avoid it: If you aren’t a committed Peloton fan or own other Peloton equipment, you may be deterred by the price. It’s steep for a rowing machine and if you’re just looking to use it for cardio here and there you’re better off with a less expensive version. Another deterrent would be if you have minimal space in your home, because this is a large rowing machine (8 x 2 feet) that can’t be folded up when not in use.  ... Show more
Get it now
$3,295 at Peloton
Peloton
Photo Gallery 1/1
Peloton
Best smart exercise bike
Peloton Bike
Pros
Engaging live and on-demand classes
Connects to multiple third-party apps
You can play your own music
All-Access Peloton membership gives you unlimited profiles
Cons
Expensive
Costs extra to purchase appropriate cycling shoes
Programming can get repetitive
What we like about it: CNET named the Peloton Bike the best exercise bike for a reason. The sleek signature look of the Peloton Bike is appealing because it looks like a sophisticated piece of equipment in the middle of your living room. It offers plenty of live and on-demand classes with its All-Access membership and lets you create up to 20 user profiles. The Peloton community is also what keeps its name relevant, as its members are supportive on and off the bike. Even if you're not in one of the live classes, you can still view your performance in real time alongside others who've taken the class. During a live class, you may get an encouraging high five from another member through the leaderboard, and offline, you can connect with your favorite instructors via social media.Who it’s best for: The Peloton Bike is ideal for those who want a classic smart exercise bike that provides an immersive group fitness experience. The Peloton Bike is best for someone who likes the feel of a group fitness class in the comfort of their home. The community aspect is a big driver for Peloton, so if you like connecting with other Peloton users, you’ll like this exercise bike. Who should avoid it: If you want a more basic bike, the Peloton might be more than you bargained for. It requires an All-Access membership at an additional cost of $44 a month, which you may not want to spend if you aren’t looking to take classes. The Peloton requires clip-on shoes, which normally cost extra unless you upgrade to a more expensive package.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,145 at Peloton
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best smart home gym for serious weightlifters
Tonal 2
Pros
It is a space-saving, wall-installed machine
It's quiet, which works well if you don't want to disrupt the neighbors
It functions like a personal trainer
You aren't limited to just using it for the classes and you can do your own customized workout
Cons
Your walls have to meet the requirements to install Tonal
The price is high for a machine ($4,295) that doesn't include the cost of its own custom accessories or required professional installation
What we like about it: The Tonal 2 is the second version of Tonal, a strength training smart home gym that became popular in the fitness community, along with endorsements by athletes such as LeBron James and Serena Williams. It resembles a cable machine combined with a touchscreen TV and is intended to replace your dumbbells, barbells and weight plates while saving space in your home. It has 13 sensors to track your form and technique, while the smart handles and bar accessories (an optional, additional $495) have a gyroscope motion sensor that keeps track of your reps. The latest version of Tonal also includes a smart view, which allows you to view yourself as you do your workout and has an Aero feature, which allows you to use it for cardio or HIIT classes. Tonal 2 uses up to 250 pounds of total resistance and calibrates your weights for different exercises based on your initial fitness assessment. Before you start a workout, Tonal can also tell which muscle groups are fatigued on the day of your workout and make sure to work around them. Tonal offers thousands of on-demand and live workouts for beginners to advanced athletes. It even has five dynamic weight modes that make your workout harder and function like a personal trainer. If you don't want to take a class, you can use the Tonal on its own and customize your own workout while still receiving the same feedback you would in class. You can also connect your Amazon Music or Apple Music account and listen to your own music during your workout.  Who it’s best for: Tonal 2 is best for the serious weightlifter or someone who is into strength training, but wants more guidance during their workouts. They’ll appreciate the 250 pounds of total resistance and especially being able to view themselves as they do their workout. It is a big investment at $4,295, so it’s best for the exerciser who plans on being committed to using it. Who should avoid it: I would avoid buying the Tonal 2 if you know you aren’t going to be consistent with your strength training workouts. I also wouldn’t recommend it if you don’t have the space for it or the budget. The original Tonal was cheaper, and I didn’t find the upgrades to be worth the big price jump this time around. It also requires 7 feet of wall space and floor space. If the next iteration has more unique features and functions, then I might say the price point is worth it.  ... Show more
Get it now
$4,295 at Tonal
How we test smart home gym equipment
Each smart home gym is tested differently based on its category since no two are alike. We narrowed down the best smart home gyms based on each of their respective categories. These include treadmills, ellipticals and mirror gyms, all of which have been tested by various CNET editors over the years. Factors to consider when choosing a smart home gym
Budget: Smart home gyms tend to be expensive and can easily cost a minimum of $1,000. Therefore it's an investment you want to make sure is going to be worth it for your home and exercise preferences. Consider how much you're willing to spend and what's included in that price.Space: Many smart home gyms are relatively large pieces of equipment. Before purchasing one, make sure you have enough room to set it up and move around it. For example, if you're purchasing a machine such as a treadmill, it's ideal to look for one that folds for easier storage. Whereas if you are purchasing a smart fitness mirror you'll want to make sure that wherever you mount it there's still room to exercise in front of it.Versatility: Smart home gyms usually offer more than one function. If you're buying a smart home gym, make sure it also offers a variety of classes so you can build a well-rounded workout. If you want personal training, make sure the smart home gym offers it as an option.Membership: Since smart home gyms typically replace a gym membership, you'll want to make sure that the membership provided will allow multiple user profiles so your whole family can use it. Best practices for smart home gyms
Since the types of smart home gyms that exist vary across the board, there aren't best practices that apply to all of the ones on this list. Instead, there are some key things to keep in mind--particularly for treadmills, ellipticals and rowing machines.Best treadmill practices: Make sure to get clearance from your doctor first if you are pregnant, have been sick or recovering from an injury or surgery. Your treadmill workout should consist of a five to 10-minute warm-up, pace yourself and don't run too fast too soon, avoid holding on to the handrails and keep your arms by your side, but use them so you're a more efficient runner. Focus on running tall and light and relaxed to avoid any unnecessary tension.Best rowing machine practices: Learn the importance of the setup which is broken up into four parts known as the catch, drive, finish and recovery. If you're really interested in getting into rowing, it's recommended to learn the right technique from an expert.Best elliptical practices: Make sure to stand tall, keep your core engaged, and avoid slouching. Hold onto the handles and keep your feet flat and sturdy on the pedals when you pedal forward.
Smart home gym FAQs
Which smart fitness mirror is best for a home gym?
This depends on what you're looking for in a smart fitness mirror. Most offer a variety of classes that are updated regularly but have a different purpose. Some focus on perfecting the artificial intelligence aspect of it to give you form feedback, while others prefer to concentrate on personal training or high-quality group fitness classes. The smart fitness mirror you choose will also depend on your preference, budget and space availability.
What are the benefits of a smart home gym?
Owning a smart home gym can make it easier for you to stay active because you have a full gym at home. You can also share the experience with other family members looking to get fit.
How do you clean a smart home gym?
Your smart home gym or smart fitness mirror will come with instructions on how to maintain and care for it. Some recommend only using microfiber or cleaning cloths to keep it clean and dust-free. Never use cleaning products that have not been approved by the manufacturer.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.