I'm a long-time iPhone Pro user, but I'm seriously considering the Air for these reasons | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
I'm a long-time iPhone Pro user, but I'm seriously considering the Air for these reasons
The iPhone Air may not win over camera enthusiasts, but its ultra-thin design and well-rounded features make it a solid pick for most users.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 17, 2025 at 4:30 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The iPhone "Pro" label has always represented the bleeding edge of Apple's industrial design. This year, I'm second-guessing if that philosophy still holds true in Cupertino.Going into Apple's Awe-dropping event earlier this month, my attention was reserved for the iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max, both of which were expected to feature a new vapor chamber cooling system -- resolving a longstanding issue of overheating on Pro models -- as well as a redesigned camera plateau. Those rumors turned out to be true, but I still left the September keynote feeling underwhelmed.Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgradeInstead, the glitz and glamor came with the iPhone Air, introduced with a theatrical flair, balanced on a single finger at the Steve Jobs Theater to a chorus of "oohs and ahhs." Notably, Apple is branding the iPhone Air as a first-generation product; it's not the iPhone 17 Air or iPhone 17S. Even then, the device offers the "power of Pro," a phrase that we're not talking about enough.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Preorder the iPhone Air Apple's thinnest and lightest iPhone yet features an A19 Pro chip, a 48MP Fusion camera, and more.
View at Apple A Pro phone without the branding
Jason Hiner/ZDNETThere's a bit of weight that's lifted when an iPhone doesn't have the Pro moniker; you expect it to have shortcomings, fewer features, and just a serviceable experience. That sets the iPhone Air up for room to impress, with it being powered by the same A19 Pro chip that revs up the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max models, as well as the same 18MP Center Stage front camera that can adaptively capture subjects as they appear on screen.It also makes the lack of a dedicated ultrawide and telephoto lens more forgiving. When you're building against physics, a singular sensor with an optical zoom may be the best, and only, option right now. Fortunately for Apple, its image tuning and computational tweaks have mostly been well accepted by its users. I didn't have much of an issue testing that on the iPhone 16 last year.Also: iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared the two flagship models, and here's the winnerWhen you chase this feature set with a design as striking and disruptive as the iPhone Air, and a price that sits squarely in the middle, you have a handset that should appeal to most people. What I expect to ultimately tip the scales in the Air's favor will be the in-store experience, when curious shoppers pick up the device and feel an absence of thickness and bulk.Like its Android rival, the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge, the iPhone Air is a device you must see in person to grasp its significance. And when you do, switching between the Air and Pro Max will only amplify the latter model's heft. Even if holding it doesn't answer the question of why an ultralight and thin phone exists, you'll be glad it does now, because the implications -- whether it's future Pro or foldable models that are just as nimble -- are remarkable.The big question mark
Jason Hiner/ZDNETThat's to say, I preordered the iPhone Air instead of the Pro model this year, and I'm ready to see how the benefits and trade-offs compare. Will the lighter build make the inevitably short battery life easier to ignore? Will the mono audio channel speaker sound worse than on paper? Is the iPhone Air worth it at $999, or should you just pay up for the Pro?I plan on answering all of those questions in my full review. Until then, what are your thoughts on the iPhone Air? Sound off in the comments below.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
Should you upgrade to an iPhone 17 Pro from last year's model? I am - here's why
I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's the best buy for you
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use