TikTok Deal Approved But Not Finalized: President Trump | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
A TikTok Deal Is 'Approved' But Not Yet Finalized, President Donald Trump Reveals
President Trump wrote on Truth Social that he had a "very productive" call on Friday with China's leader, Xi Jinping.
By
Erin Davis
Sep 19, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
President Trump announced that "progress" has been made on a TikTok deal after a call with China's leader on Friday.
The U.S. and China had agreed to a "framework" for a TikTok deal earlier in the week.
Congress passed a law in 2024 requiring China-based ByteDance to sell TikTok or face a ban in the U.S.
President Donald Trump announced on Truth Social on Friday that he had a "very productive" call with China's leader, Xi Jinping, and that "progress" has been made "on the approval of the TikTok Deal."A White House official told CNBC that the call began at 8 a.m. ET. Although the matter does not appear to have been finalized, Trump wrote that he can "appreciate the TikTok approval" and that the two leaders will meet again in November at the APEC Summit in South Korea."I just completed a very productive call with President Xi of China. We made progress on many very important issues, including Trade, Fentanyl, the need to bring the War between Russia and Ukraine to an end, and the approval of the TikTok Deal," Trump wrote. "The call was a very good one. We will be speaking again by phone, appreciate the TikTok approval, and both look forward to meeting at APEC!"
Related: Billionaire Investor Frank McCourt Jr. Wants to Do More Than Buy TikTok — He Wants to Transform the Entire Internet. Here's How.Earlier this week, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent announced that the "framework" for a TikTok deal had been reached with China. Then, Trump extended the deadline for a TikTok deal for another 90 days, until December 16, with an Executive Order. It is the fourth extension issued since Congress passed a law last year requiring TikTok's parent company, Beijing-based ByteDance, to sell the popular app or face a ban in the U.S.
CNBC's David Faber reported earlier this week that TikTok's U.S. owners will consist of new and existing investors. Oracle, which has been TikTok's U.S. cloud provider since 2022, will keep its agreement with the company, sources told Faber. CBS reports that the private equity firm, Silver Lake, is also involved. Reports noted ByteDance would keep an ownership stake.Bids to buy the app have been submitted by a slew of notable business leaders, including the team of Kevin O'Leary, billionaire former Dodgers owner Frank McCourt, and Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian in "The People's Bid." AI startup Perplexity, Amazon, and Applovin all submitted separate proposals as well.Related: President Donald Trump Suggests Canceling Quarterly Reporting: 'This Will Save Money'
President Donald Trump announced on Truth Social on Friday that he had a "very productive" call with China's leader, Xi Jinping, and that "progress" has been made "on the approval of the TikTok Deal."A White House official told CNBC that the call began at 8 a.m. ET. Although the matter does not appear to have been finalized, Trump wrote that he can "appreciate the TikTok approval" and that the two leaders will meet again in November at the APEC Summit in South Korea."I just completed a very productive call with President Xi of China. We made progress on many very important issues, including Trade, Fentanyl, the need to bring the War between Russia and Ukraine to an end, and the approval of the TikTok Deal," Trump wrote. "The call was a very good one. We will be speaking again by phone, appreciate the TikTok approval, and both look forward to meeting at APEC!"
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Erin Davis
Entrepreneur Staff
Trending News Writer
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Marketing
How Small Businesses Can Outperform Big Brands With This Simple Marketing Formula
Here's how AI and local marketing together are helping entrepreneurs compete with and even outperform big brands.
By
Fahim Ludin
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Growing a Business
I Looked Successful, But Inside I Was Falling Apart — This Trifecta Method Took Me From Rock Bottom to Peak Performance
What looked like success nearly broke me — until I discovered an unconventional path to rebuilding energy, clarity and purpose.
By
Marc Kielburger
Business News
A Longtime NBA Star Has Been Holding Bitcoin For Years Because He Lost His Password: 'We Never Sold Anything'
Two-time NBA Champion Kevin Durant was locked out of his Coinbase account before gaining access again on Thursday.
By
Erin Davis
Side Hustle
How I Used Side Hustles to Pay Off $40,000 Debt in 1 Year
Marissa Cazem Potts wanted to take control of her financial future.
By
Amanda Breen
Franchise
Franchise Industry Descends on D.C. to Advocate for 'Independence and Flexibility'
Hundreds of franchise leaders and policy makers gathered in Washington, D.C. this week for the summit, with the new American Franchise Act at the forefront.
By
Carl Stoffers
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC