sqlite - Record Selection in Main Dataset from a Sub Dataset in Delphi - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Record Selection in Main Dataset from a Sub Dataset in Delphi
Ask Question
Asked
2 days ago
Modified
2 days ago
Viewed
64 times
0
The application I'm writing has a main form where all the database fields and DBGrid that contains the entire SQLite dataset (ExpItemQuery) reside. I have designed a database search functionality into the application using a separate Delphi form. The search form can find records based on a number of fields (project ID, dates, vendor, etc.). The search results are shown in a DBGrid using a different dataset query (SearchQuery) of the same main database records as the main form.
The problem I struggling with is how once the user selects the correct record from the Search Form can I bring it back to the main form, select the correct record to display on the main form. To make matters a bit more challenging, each of these datasets will have the same content (fields) from the database, but the record count and numbers will be completely different, so using them to locate the proper record won't work. I have looked into using the CopyRecord method of TFDQuery however, there is little to no documentation or examples to follow so I'm not sure its appropriate. I have also looked at similar methods GotoCurrent and CloneCurosr which I don't believe will work properly given the differences in the main form dataset and the subset dataset.
The only potential solution I can reasonably come up with is to copy the SearchQuery record information as selected by the user into a memory storage record, close the search form, search the main form dataset for the correct record using several key fields and display it.
I'm hoping that someone has a better solution to this problem that I've may have overlooked.
sqlitedelphidataset
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 2 days ago
Skypilot65Skypilot65
21611 gold badge22 silver badges1111 bronze badges
3
not ver clear to me, so on your mainform you have a dbgrid that is populated, and you have another form to search for a row in the same table ? Why not just search on the mainform itself then ?
GuidoG
–
GuidoG
2025-09-24 10:00:05 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
When you Search , you should get back some unique ID as well from the Database. Regardless of fields ....
Then you send this ID back to the MainForm .
Do a qryData.Locate('ID',47362,[])
user1937012
–
user1937012
2025-09-24 10:38:43 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
@user1937012 That is what I'm looking for and makes sense. Thanks.
Skypilot65
–
Skypilot65
2025-09-24 14:07:14 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Add a comment
|
Related questions
3411
Improve INSERT-per-second performance of SQLite
1
How to clone a dataset structure (TFDQuery) in Delphi 10?
1
Delphi TeeChart only showing one record from dataset
Related questions
3411
Improve INSERT-per-second performance of SQLite
1
How to clone a dataset structure (TFDQuery) in Delphi 10?
1
Delphi TeeChart only showing one record from dataset
2
Can a record constant be a record of records in Delphi 6?
1
Nested record information hiding in Delphi
0
Delphi DBGrid set column width and scolling effect
270
How to affect Delphi XEx code generation for Android/ARM targets?
Load 4 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
sqlitedelphidataset
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
What's the cents value of these SMuFL accidentals?
What license to use when extending a pre-existing library?
SF short-story written perhaps 30 - 40 years ago about female-infected creatures who are called males
Plotting functions without sampling artefacts
How to draw the following graph in latex?
What is the song that plays in "Highlander," season 6, episode 13?
Traveling by car on train in Germany
How can blood fuel space travel?
How Create a math symbol
In Justice Kagan's "Congress, as everyone agrees, prohibited each of those presidential removals." who exactly is "everyone"?
What happens to academic grants if you leave for industry?
Marking utensils for ownership
Why weren’t Prince Philip’s sisters invited to his wedding to Princess Elizabeth?
What is an aggravating factor and why is kinship considered one?
What is the exact method of calculating a number needed to treat (NNT) in a meta-analysis?
Does pseudo-vitae revenants produce replenish vitae in Kindred?
How to use ≥ 16 usbip ports from one host controller on Debian?
Which driving direction syncs with Quebec’s and Maritime Canada’s autumn leaf colors?
Do academics mind if someone outside their field critiques their work?
What is this glass device I found next to drinking glasses in the south of France
Was King George VI’s lung surgery performed at Buckingham Palace as shown?
Does clipping distortion affect the information contained within a frequency-modulated signal?
Stretch an elastic band around three nails so that it relaxes when any nail is removed
How to design a circuit that outputs the binary position of the 3rd set bit from the right in an 8-bit input?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480