Who Is Buying TikTok? Deadline Extended Again, Friday Deal | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
President Donald Trump Extends TikTok Ban Deadline Again. Here's What We Know About Who's Buying the App.
President Trump delayed the TikTok ban deadline for another 90 days, until December 16, though the "framework" of a deal has been reached.
By
Erin Davis
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
President Trump extended the deadline for a TikTok deal until December 16.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said on Monday that the U.S. and China had agreed to a "framework" for a TikTok deal between new and existing investors.
Congress passed a law in 2024 requiring China-based ByteDance to sell TikTok or face a ban in the U.S.
President Donald Trump extended the deadline for a TikTok deal on Tuesday for another 90 days, until December 16, according to an Executive Order. It is the fourth extension after Congress passed a law last year that requires TikTok to separate from its parent company, Beijing-based ByteDance, or face a permanent ban in the U.S.Earlier on Tuesday, Trump said he had "a deal on TikTok" in the works. On Monday, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent announced that the "framework" for a TikTok deal had finally been reached with China. Trump said in a post on Truth Social that he would be meeting with China's leader, Xi Jinping, on Friday to finalize the deal.Related: Billionaire Investor Frank McCourt Jr. Wants to Do More Than Buy TikTok — He Wants to Transform the Entire Internet. Here's How.
"A deal was also reached on a "certain" company that young people in our Country very much wanted to save. They will be very happy! I will be speaking to President Xi on Friday," Trump wrote Monday.Now, CNBC's David Faber is reporting that the deal includes new and existing investors. Oracle, which has been TikTok's U.S. cloud provider since 2022, will keep its agreement with the company, sources told Faber. CBS reports that the private equity firm, Silver Lake, is also involved.
Other potential investors include the team of Kevin O'Leary, billionaire former Dodgers owner Frank McCourt, and Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian for "The People's Bid." AI startup Perplexity, Amazon, and Applovin all submitted separate bids as well.U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to members of the press as he departs the White House en route to the United Kingdom on September 16, 2025, in Washington, D.C. MEHMET ESER/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty ImagesFaber said on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Tuesday: "I'm hearing it's actually going to be relatively small in terms of the actual size of the checks that are written for the entity itself."Reuters reports that the deal keeps TikTok operating with controlled ownership in the U.S., though ByteDance will keep "single largest ownership stake" at 19.9%.
More information about the deal is expected to be released on Friday after Trump meets with Xi Jinping. Although Trump extended the deadline for 90 days, a deal is expected much sooner, within 45 days, according to reports."We were very focused on TikTok and making sure that it was a deal that is fair for the Chinese and completely respects U.S. national security concerns, and that's the deal we reached," Bessent said from Madrid on Monday. "It's between two private parties, but the commercial terms have been agreed upon."Related: President Donald Trump Suggests Canceling Quarterly Reporting: 'This Will Save Money'
President Donald Trump extended the deadline for a TikTok deal on Tuesday for another 90 days, until December 16, according to an Executive Order. It is the fourth extension after Congress passed a law last year that requires TikTok to separate from its parent company, Beijing-based ByteDance, or face a permanent ban in the U.S.Earlier on Tuesday, Trump said he had "a deal on TikTok" in the works. On Monday, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent announced that the "framework" for a TikTok deal had finally been reached with China. Trump said in a post on Truth Social that he would be meeting with China's leader, Xi Jinping, on Friday to finalize the deal.Related: Billionaire Investor Frank McCourt Jr. Wants to Do More Than Buy TikTok — He Wants to Transform the Entire Internet. Here's How.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Erin Davis
Entrepreneur Staff
Trending News Writer
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business News
Meta Just Unveiled New Smart Glasses With an Embedded Display — and an iPhone 17 Price Point. Here's How They Work.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave the keynote address at the Meta Connect event on Wednesday in Menlo Park, California.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Side Hustle
How I Used Side Hustles to Pay Off $40,000 Debt in 1 Year
Marissa Cazem Potts wanted to take control of her financial future.
By
Amanda Breen
Growing a Business
I Looked Successful, But Inside I Was Falling Apart — This Trifecta Method Took Me From Rock Bottom to Peak Performance
What looked like success nearly broke me — until I discovered an unconventional path to rebuilding energy, clarity and purpose.
By
Marc Kielburger
Business News
The CEO of a $183 Billion AI Startup Says There's a 'Need to Warn the World' About AI Taking Jobs
Two of Anthropic's cofounders caution that AI could rapidly replace human jobs.
By
Sherin Shibu
Accounting
This Is a Rare Chance to Save More Than 70% on QuickBooks Desktop Pro Plus 2024
Get access to features that help leaders take control of accounting.
By
Entrepreneur Store
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC