Publish open access with Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Publish open access with Springer
Publishing open access makes your work immediately and permanently available online for everyone, worldwide. Springer is pleased to offer a variety of open access options for our authors to publish their research.
No matter which option you choose, all open access articles and books are subject to high-quality peer review, editorial and production processes. You retain copyright and can easily comply with open access mandates.
Routes to open access
Open Access Agreements
Open Access Agreements are arrangements between institutions and publishers that cover OA publishing costs for affiliated authors. They help to centralise payments and reduce administration, while providing a more streamlined OA publishing process for authors. They also help to ensure that all authors comply when funding regulations require research to be made immediately OA upon publication (for example, as is the case with a Plan S funder’s grant).
Springer Nature offers different types of OA agreements covering hybrid and fully OA portfolios but the key focus of all of these agreements is the coverage of publishing fees for authors from participating institutions. Find out more, including whether your institution is covered by an agreement.
Transformative Journals
Many of our titles are Transformative Journals (TJs), offering optional open access on all primary research. Authors can choose between gold OA or subscription publication, based on their preference, funder or institutional requirements, and the availability of funding for OA fees. TJs are making an active commitment to becoming fully OA, meeting the requirements of cOAlition S. Find out more.
Also of interest
Going for Gold: exploring the reach and impact of gold open access articles in hybrid journals
Diversifying readership through open access: A usage analysis for OA books
The OA Effect: How does open access affect the usage of scholarly books?
Open access
Open Choice for journals
Open Access Books
Publication Policies
SpringerOpen journals
↗
Transformative journals
↗
Institutional Open Access Agreements
↗
Open Access Funding and Support Service
↗
Support and Contact
↗
Open access funding
Find out about available funding from institutions and funders worldwide and learn about our membership program.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature