Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
Credit: Source: GMKtec
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 16, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
GMKtec EVO-X2 AI Mini PC
$2639
$2329
Save $-310
$2639 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
This is one of those mini PCs that's built with a purpose. It isn't cheap, but it's extremely powerful, packing some of the best hardware you'll find in a compact size. Not only are you getting AMD's Ryzen Al Max+ 395 chip, but it's also paired with 96GB of LPDDR5X 8000MHz RAM. If that wasn't enough, it also comes with 1TB of SSD storage that's also upgradeable, along with a steep $600 discount that drops it down to its lowest price yet. Again, this mini PC isn't for everyone, but if this is something that you've been looking for, we think it's a good time to buy.
A lot of power in a small box
Credit: Source: GMKtec
Sure, you can use this PC for pretty much anything you can think of, but for the amount of RAM, and the way this unit is set up, we think it's geared towards hosting local LLMs. And if this is the first time you've heard about this, it's a thing, and allows you to enjoy powerful AI tools without having to send your data out to the internet.
With that said, if you want, you can also use this PC for everyday use as well, which means it's great for typing up papers, surfing the web, and also playing games. Of course, with this much power, and the integrated Radeon RX 8060S GPU, we also think that this PC would be perfect for creative tasks like photo and video editing.
Connectivity is also quite good with two Thunderbolt 4, five USB-A, HDMI, DisplayPort, SD card slot, Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 5.4. It also has plenty of cooling on the inside, ensuring sustained performance, even under the most demanding conditions. And if you want that added pop of color, this mini PC also has customizable RGB lighting as well.
Overall, not a bad system for something so compact. As stated before, this mini PC isn't going to be for everyone, and at this price you might even be able to build something better yourself. Of course, if you want a compact size with the same power, this mini PC can't be beat. So grab the $600 discount before you check out to save.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 14, 2025
This mini PC with an Intel Core i7 is going to blow you away, and it's now $200 off
Sep 14, 2025
I turned my old gaming PC into a TrueNAS server, and here's how it went
Sep 15, 2025
These 5 classic basketball games are perfect to play and get ready for the new NBA season
Sep 15, 2025
I'm using my home's Unbound DNS to block trackers no matter where I am, here's how
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
47 minutes ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
I set up my own NTP server to keep all of my devices totally synchronized
This official Raspberry Pi keyboard has the computer built inside of it, but you may not like the price
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.