Spacious 24TB hard drive is available for a mere 1 cent per GB — Seagate's BarraCuda 24TB is back on sale for $249 | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
PC Components
Storage
HDDs
Spacious 24TB hard drive is available for a mere 1 cent per GB — Seagate's BarraCuda 24TB is back on sale for $249
Deals
By
Ash Hill
published
13 September 2025
No nonsense capacity to store all your stuff
Comments (4)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Seagate)
If you're short on storage space, you might want to consider investing in a high-quality HDD. Unlike SSDs, HDDs are an excellent option for expanding storage when capacity is more important than performance. Right now at Newegg, you can find the Seagate BarraCuda 24TB hard drive for $249—one of its best prices to date and a fantastic deal for a hard drive this size.
Check out this deal on Newegg
We had the opportunity to review the 8TB edition of this drive, which is significantly smaller than the 24TB version featured today, but is still comparable in terms of performance. As far as HDDs go, this one isn't our favorite, but it does the job. We rated the 8TB model 2 out of 5 stars, but this rating is based on the hard drive's full price. The Seagate BarraCuda line is already a budget-friendly storage option, making this deal even more exciting.
Seagate BarraCuda 24TB HDD: was $299 now $249 at NeweggThe 24TB edition of the Seagate BarraCuda HDD is available at Newegg for $249. This is an excellent option for anyone looking to expand their storage capacity without incurring significant costs. It operates at 7200 RPMs and can achieve transfer speeds of up to 190 MB/s.Read more▼View Deal
As far as HDDs go, the Seagate BarraCuda line is consistently reliable. This offer is for the 24TB version, which operates at 7200 RPM. It's definitely not the fastest drive on the market, but if transfer speeds aren't a major concern, then the large capacity more than makes up for it. Under optimal conditions, this drive can achieve speeds of up to 190 MB/s.The Seagate BarraCuda 24TB HDD utilizes Conventional Magnetic Recording (CMR) technology, rather than Shingled Magnetic Recording (SMR). Usually, SMR-based HDDs are the go-to option for those in need of capacity over performance; however, this deal brings the quality of CMR at a reasonable price. The purchase is backed by Newegg's 30-day return policy as well as a 2-year warranty from Seagate.Check out our list of best hard drives to see what's leading the market and get a better idea of what specs to look out for when shopping.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (4)
Ash HillContributing WriterAsh Hill is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware with a wealth of experience in the hobby electronics, 3D printing and PCs. She manages the Pi projects of the month and much of our daily Raspberry Pi reporting while also finding the best coupons and deals on all tech.
4 Comments
Comment from the forums
Pemalite
It's a Seagate though... I'm not into gambling.
In saying that, drives above 16TB seem to have limited usefulness for me as they lack compatibility with game consoles.
Reply
sygreenblum
Pemalite said:It's a Seagate though... I'm not into gambling.
In saying that, drives above 16TB seem to have limited usefulness for me as they lack compatibility with game consoles.I wouldn't buy the compute drives but I've got 250+TB of Seagate Enterprise drives in my NAS and they just keep trucking. Only the oldest have failed and I've been running and expanding the system for a decade.
I always run a test for hours/spinups/sectors and check the serial number to make sure they are truly brand new and never buy the drives on Amazon as they are almost all used or faulty drives passed off as new.
Reply
wwenze1
sygreenblum said:I wouldn't buy the compute drives but I've got 250+TB of Seagate Enterprise drives in my NAS and they just keep trucking. Only the oldest have failed and I've been running and expanding the system for a decade.
I always run a test for hours/spinups/sectors and check the serial number to make sure they are truly brand new and never buy the drives on Amazon as they are almost all used or faulty drives passed off as new.When you have RAID and backups and redundancy at the system-level, a 1% drive failure rate is nothing. And is smaller than the price premium of WD over Seagate.
When you have only 1 drive because you're an individual user and buying 2 or more drives is too expensive, it becomes a real risk.
I mean, ****, I just had the 3rd NVME wipe in this year (thanks Windows 11) and I just got it back up using an 80GB image. I cannot have the same level of backup with my 24TB EXOS.
Reply
db808
BE VERY CAREFUL. Official specs are VERY, VERY poor.
Here is the link to the official Seagate specs :
https://www.seagate.com/content/dam/seagate/en/content-fragments/products/datasheets/barracuda-3-5-hdd/barracuda-3-5-hddDS2131-3-US2411-en_US.pdf
In summary: 2 year warranty, with only
2400 power on hours per year. 2400/(24 hrs/day) = 100 days of power on per year, total, OK if you don't leave your system running.
Workload limit of ONLY 120 TB/year. This is only 5 write passes over the disk.
Assuming a backup-oriented usage using efficient large IOs of at least 1 MB, the disk should be able to sustain about 60 MB/sec or more.
120 TB per year / (60 MB/sec backup stream) = 2 million sec = 555.5 hours total (for the whole year)
555.5 hours of write activity per year / 365 days per year = 1.52 hours per day.
So if your backups take more than 1.52 hours per day on average, you are exceeding the spec .... and likely to have an accelerated rate of errors. Seagate is being front-up on this non-write-friendly disk .... its clearly in the specs, but most customers (myself included) would expect more write capabilities given capabilities of Seagate disks in the past.
If you compare this drive to the 12 TB Seagate Barracuda PRO ($306 @ Newegg) listed as a Toms Hardware Best pick for high end desktop the specs are night and day. Yes, they are different sizes, but the larger drives listed in the Toms Hardware Best picks have even better specs than the Barracuda PRO. There is a big difference between the base Barracuda and the Barracuda PRO
Barracuda 24TBBarracuda PRO 12 TBWarranty: 2 years5 years w/data recoverypower on hours:2400 (100 days) 8760 (365 days)workload: 120 TB/year300 TB/year~ 1,52 hrs/day3.8 hrs/day backup write activity/dayError rate1x10**14 1x10**1510x worse error rate
The other disks listed on the Toms Hardware best picks list have even more robust specs than the Barracuda Pro, Yes .... the Seagate Barracuda (non-PRO) 24 TB disk is very inexpensive, but beware .... you could be putting a large amount of data at risk.
Reply
View All 4 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.