Gates Foundation partnership - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Gates Foundation partnership
Accelerating open science with support from the Gates Foundation
Aligned with our work to catalyze change in scholarly publishing, PLOS has been awarded a $3.3 million grant from the Gates Foundation to support further development of our alternative business models and efforts to move research communication beyond the article.The three-year funding provides support for Gates grantees who choose to publish in PLOS journals, will enable improvements in capturing and disseminating funder metadata, and allows us to pilot a program to advance the sharing of preprints and open peer review.
Our aims
Support for alternative open access business models
We are a pioneer of open access models grounded in equity and transparency that don’t rely on APCs. Developing sustainable solutions that support a range of research artifacts in addition to articles is an ongoing focus of our Redefining Publishing project.The Gates Foundation grant supports open access publishing during this time by contributing to publication service costs for researchers without access to funding for open access publication in PLOS Global Public Health. As part of the grant, Gates-funded authors will continue to be able to publish in any PLOS journal without facing APCs.
Increase transparency in funder metadata
We’re working to improve the mechanisms for the capture and dissemination of funder metadata in published articles in order to allow better identification and tracking. These enhancements will allow funding agencies to better monitor the outputs and impacts of research. Outputs from this work will be shared publicly in order to enable others to adopt similar approaches.
Increase engagement with preprints and open peer review
Preprints are a valuable tool for researchers to take control of when to share their findings, reach the broadest possible community, and seek collaborative feedback. We encourage authors to share preprints and facilitate preprint posting to make sharing easy for authors who submit to our journals.For a trial period, we will now enable authors submitting to PLOS Global Public Health to opt-in to have their peer review comments posted alongside their preprints. This experiment will help us to study what motivates authors to share their work early and how preprint reviews can improve transparency and accountability in the research-sharing process.
Read the announcement
Paving the way for open science publishing
Our work on capturing funder metadata and insights from our preprint trial with PLOS Global Public Health will be shared publicly to provide a model for the broader scholarly community. Our aim is to stimulate positive change in the publishing sector beyond this partnership by demonstrating what is possible.
Learn more about open peer review and preprints
Sign up to receive news and information from PLOS including updates and tips about your new options for posting peer reviews to your preprint when submitting to PLOS Global Public Health.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top