Tumble Rugs Review: Worth the Hype? [Tested with Pictures 2025]
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
The Ultimate Room-by-Room Spring Cleaning Checklist
The Best Kitchen Mats, According to Our Product Testing Team
The Best Rugs for Your Kitchen Area, According to Our Product Testing Team
The Ultimate Room-by-Room Fall Cleaning Checklist
Yeti Rambler Coffee Tumbler Review: Does It Live Up to the Hype?
Harry & David Review: Are These Gourmet Gifts Worth the Hype?
Ruggable Rug Review: Are the Large Sizes Really Washable?
Ruggable Review: Are These Machine-Washable Rugs Worth the Hype?
Caraway Ceramic Cookware Review: Are These Pans Worth the Investment?
Are Pricey Paper Towels Worth the Money? We Tested the Most Popular Brands to Find Out.
Ruggable Review: Elevate Your Deck with This Washable Outdoor Rug
Ruggable Bath Mat Review: Non-Slip and Incredibly Easy to Clean
Ruggable Doormat Review: A Stylish Solution That Easily Ditches Dirt and Debris
Ruggable Kitchen Rug Review: Durable, Easy to Clean and Oh-So Stylish
8 Fun Food-Shaped Rugs That Bring a Touch of Whimsy to Your Kitchen
Our Pros Found the Best Mop for Your Home
Ruggable Runner Review: An Easy-to-Clean Option That Dresses Up Hallways
This Mop and Bucket Set Has Over 9,000 5-Star Reviews on Amazon
The Secret to Reviving Your Dingy Dish Towels
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
Home
Stuff We Love
Expert Product Reviews & Buying Guides
Tumble Rugs Review: Do These Washable Rugs Really Live Up to the Hype?
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
By
Katie Bandurski
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 11, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
We tested a Tumble washable rug for three months. Here's how it went.
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
I grew up in a house with white carpeting. When spills happened, it was an all-hands-on-deck approach to remove splotches of juice, spaghetti sauce or coffee from the fibers.
Now, as an adult with my own space, I’m happy to skip the stress of spills by opting for washable rugs. These easy-to-clean floor coverings offer the same cushy benefits as rugs or carpeting but are able to handle life’s ickiest messes.
After trying (and loving) Ruggable, I put another popular washable rug brand to the test. Here’s my honest Tumble Rugs review.
VIA MERCHANT
We Tried It
Tumble Rugs
Banish stains once and for all with a washable Tumble rug.
Shop on Tumble
What are Tumble Rugs?
Tumble is a washable rug brand that specializes in life-proof floor decor. Each rug is spill-proof and meant to withstand messes from kids and pets. There are more than 80 Tumble rug styles to choose from, all designed by hand and illustrated in-house. Tumble rugs fit in a standard washing machine and are priced slightly below comparable washable rug brands, like Ruggable.
How We Tested It
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
I’ve been testing the 8×10 Olivia ivory and neutral rug since June 2025. In that time, it has lived in my husband’s office, where it sees daily foot traffic.
Packaging and Delivery
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
My Tumble rug arrived in a flat brown box. It included the rug topper, 12 rug pad sections and four rug corner grippers, along with some setup information. I was very intrigued by the rug pad; it reminded me of the rubber gym flooring you can puzzle-piece together.
The rug topper was soft and felt very durable. Some washable rugs can look like a piece of fabric thrown on the floor, but the Tumble has a beautiful texture and reinforced edges, which help it look like a standard rug. That said, it doesn’t have a plush, cushy feel.
Set-Up
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
Initially, I planned to put the Tumble rug in my media room under our modular sectional. Tumble recommends starting with a clear space since the rug pad is difficult to move once it’s in place. Since the room is so small (and full of furniture!) I couldn’t quite clear off an entire 8×10 section. Keep this in mind if you’re looking to put a Tumble rug in a crowded room.
Instead, I moved the rug up to my husband’s office, where there was plenty of floor space. I started laying out the floor pad—each piece is numbered and has a specific spot, just like a puzzle. You connect each piece by aligning the interlocking teeth and pushing down, again, just like a puzzle.
Katie Banndurski for Taste of Home
This process is simple in theory, but it was surprisingly tedious and time-consuming. Any time I would connect a new piece, some of the others would loosen, and I’d have to go back to reattach them. If I tried to re-center or straighten the pad, the same thing would happen. I even pulled too hard on one of the pieces, and one of the teeth fell off. (Oops!) Plus, it can be hard to tell exactly where you want the rug in your space until it’s laid out, but this pad process makes the ensemble very difficult to move once you get started.
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
After about 45 minutes of finagling, I finally got my pad exactly where I wanted it. Luckily, the rug topper is very easy to attach. Simply lay it on top and tuck each pad corner into the pockets on the rug’s underside. I noticed some pretty severe wrinkles on my rug topper. The brand notes that you can use an iron on the lowest setting to smooth them out, if desired.
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
Lastly, before you move any furniture back onto your rug, apply the corner grippers. These sticky, silicone pieces attach directly to the floor and keep the rug in place.
Day-to-Day Wear
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
Once the rug was in place and the furniture arranged, it was time to step back and admire my handiwork. What a difference! My husband’s office is in major need of a refresh. The walls are currently a bright orange and yellow (!!!), but the rug really helped bring the space together while we make plans to paint or wallpaper.
After a week or two of use, I noticed that the rolling chair he uses at his desk causes the rug to wrinkle and bunch a bit. This is likely because the rug only engages with the pad at the corners. It’s not a huge deal, but it does require us to adjust the rug every few days to avoid a tripping hazard. The brand does note that this can happen and recommends avoiding the use of rolling chairs, so keep that in mind if shopping for a home office.
That said, the Tumble rug has held up beautifully to the pressure of the chair’s wheels. The previous rug we had in the office got matted and mangled after just a month or two, and you can’t see any excessive signs of wear on the Tumble rug.
When walking on the rug, the pad does provide a really nice cushion. It reminds me of a thick yoga mat! We had overnight guests stay over on an air mattress, and it was a really nice upgrade from the cold, hardwood floor.
Cleaning
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
Now, for the main event: Is a Tumble rug really washable? Yes! The brand advertises that all of its rugs are designed to fit in a standard washer and dryer. So, after two months of use, I put this claim to the test.
First, I intentionally stained the rug with coffee and ketchup to see if these common spills would come out in the wash. Then, I removed it from the pad and stuffed it in my front-load washing machine, keeping the stained side facing out. I used a mild detergent and washed it on a cold, delicate cycle.
I was a little concerned that my machine would error due to an uneven load. (This has happened before when washing duvets or really heavy blankets.) But it managed just fine!
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
To dry, I used low heat for 50 minutes. It was still pretty wet and kept bunching up, so I moved on to air drying. I hung the rug over the bar in my shower, and it took a day to fully dry. The good news? All stains lifted out in the wash—even without pre-treating.
While the washing test was a success, I will say that I have a lot of trouble vacuuming the Tumble rug. My Dyson V15 always wants to “eat” the rug, and since it’s so loosely connected to the pad, it succeeds. When I have dry spills, like cereal or other crumbs, I need to resort to using a hand vacuum, which is tedious.
Pros
Beautiful neutral design
Truly fits in a standard washing machine
Stains lift out easily
Rug pad adds a nice cushion underfoot
Corners are nonslip and help the rug lie flat
Fibers stand up to heavy wear and tear
Spills bead on the surface and are easy to wipe up
Cons
Pad system is very frustrating to put down
Rug tends to bunch, especially when vacuuming
Not as plush as a standard rug
What Other Reviewers Had to Say
I’m not the only one who was impressed by the Olivia Tumble Rug. It’s earned a solid 4.8 stars from over 1,700 reviewers.
“I am so excited I get to have a light and bright entry rug!” says verified buyer Rachel C. “Usually, I would pick something dark to cover stains and dirt until I got around to having it cleaned. (Goodbye money). It’s SO awesome I can throw this in the wash when needed!”
Four-star reviewer Kaenani F. was impressed with how the Tumble rug stands up to pet stains. “Truly liquid repellent. My puppy peed on the carpet the day after I got it, and it sat for 30 minutes before I got home…It wiped right off with a paper towel! I sprayed it, and it was good to go. Only complaint is it’s more gray than ivory and cream as pictured.”
Negative reviews of the rug center around the color not being as neutral as pictured or shipping delays.
Product Comparison: Tumble vs. Ruggable
I’ve tested both Tumble and Ruggable rugs in my home, and there are a few key differences:
Tumble offers roughly 80 rug styles, whereas Ruggable has hundreds. If you want more choices, including designer collaborations, Ruggable is a better bet.
The Tumble pad uses interlocking pieces you lay out like a puzzle. This results in a cushy, comfy feel underfoot. But it also means the rug is less engaged with the pad, which can cause bunching. The pad is also difficult to move once it’s laid out. Ruggable uses a hook-and-loop tape to firmly connect the rug pad with the cover. It’s easy to move both pieces around, and they’re fully connected. That said, unfurling the Ruggable cover onto the pad can be tricky with larger sizes.
Tumble rugs fit into most standard washing machines. Ruggable flat-woven rugs do, too. But, as detailed in my Ruggable 6×9 rug review, there are exceptions for the thicker tufted styles.
Tumble sells rugs and kids’ play mats. Ruggable sells rugs, doormats, bath mats, pillows, pet beds and more.
Final Verdict
While Tumble rugs have a few quirks, I found that they’re a solid option for washable rugs. Yes, the pad can be tricky to place, but it’s also very cushioned and provides support. It’s not the most plush option, but it washes up like a dream, even after coffee and ketchup stains. Plus, they’re built to last with high-quality fabrics and construction. After wear-testing in my home for over three months, I’m confident this is a quality option that will stand up to years of daily life.
Where to Buy
VIA MERCHANT
We Tried It
Tumble Rugs
This washable rug is up for any task—from spills to pet messes.
Shop on Tumble
You can pick up a Tumble rug directly on the brand’s website. Prices range depending on size and style, and the exact 8×10 Olivia ivory and neutral rug I tested costs $439.
FAQ
Katie Bandurski for Taste of Home
How do you wash a Tumble rug?
To wash a Tumble rug, place it in your washing machine with any stains facing out. (You can also pre-treat any deep-set stains.) Wash on a cold, gentle cycle with mild detergent. Air-dry or use a low dryer setting.
Are Tumble rugs good?
Yes! We found that they offer impressive quality at a fair price. They also are just as easy to wash as advertised.
Do Tumble rugs ever go on sale?
Yes, the brand offers discounts throughout the year, typically aligned with major sales events like Amazon Prime Day and Labor Day.
Why You Should Trust Us
Here at Taste of Home, it is quite literally our job to evaluate home and kitchen products. And we take that responsibility seriously! We thoroughly vet products through fair, accurate testing methodologies. Our team has combined decades of experience in the home, kitchen and lifestyle spaces.
The tester for this Ruggable runner evaluation, Katie Bandurski, has nearly a decade of experience in the media industry covering food, kitchen, home and garden trends. She extensively covers home care, including other washable rugs, doormats and home furnishings.
Author
Katie Bandurski
As Taste of Home's senior shopping editor, Katie connects readers with the best gifts, kitchen gear and home items on the market. An avid foodie and a holiday enthusiast, Katie is an expert at cultivating meaningful moments. Before joining the shopping team, Katie worked as a digital staff writer at Better Homes & Gardens and on the Taste of Ho...
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box