This creepy ESP32 "soul pendant" is the perfect accessory for Halloween
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This creepy ESP32 "soul pendant" is the perfect accessory for Halloween
By
Simon Batt
Published 21 hours ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
SoulCage: an ESP32 pendant with animated trapped souls—great spooky Halloween gadget.
Two selectable souls are available via the side button: the male is furious and frantic, while the female is calm and patient.
Project needs ESP32, 3D printing, and gluework—start early to finish before Halloween.
Well, Halloween is just over a month away, and tinkerers far and wide are devising new ways to scare and creep people out. I'm sure our resident SBC enthusiast, Jeff Butts, will find a way to spice up October with a new gadget or two. He always likes a good excuse to solder something. If you have a spare ESP32 lying around and want to create something spooky for this year's Halloween, this cool "soul pendant" seems like a perfect fit. Not only is it the perfect fit for a witch, warlock, or necromancer costume, but it's animated, too.
The SoulCage is a creepy ESP32 project that's perfect for Halloween
This cool project, called the SoulCage, comes to us via VishalsoniIndia on Hackster.io. Turns out, they get all kinds of ideas for cool Halloween-themed gadgets around this time of year, but they promised themselves they'd finish one project before starting another. A good call, I'd say; I don't want to admit how many half-completed projects I have sitting around my place. While the SoulCage's concept of looking like someone's eternal spirit has been stuffed inside a necklace is already creepy enough, VishalsoniIndia found a way to make it even cooler:
This pendant doesn’t just look scary; it contains animated souls inside. The soul is always moving, always trying to escape from the pendant. To make it even more interesting, there are actually two souls: one male and one female. By pressing the side button, you can switch between them. The male soul is aggressive and furious, he bangs at the glass as if he’s desperate to break out. The female soul is calmer, quiet, and patient, as if she is waiting for the right moment to be released by the owner. Together, they make the pendant feel alive in a creepy yet fun way.
The end result is a wearable pendant you can put around your neck with the small soul trying to hammer its way through the screen. It's a really cool effect, and it'd definitely turn heads as part of a Halloween getup. It takes quite a bit of tinkering, 3D printing, and gluing to get it working, so it's best to get started now so you have plenty of time to get it finished before you hit the streets in your best costume. And if that's not enough engineering for you, Jeff Butts posted an article about building a Raspberry Pi-powered haunted house last year, which must make him a hit with trick-or-treaters.
Other Hardware
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
Still using your ISP’s weak router? Get this TP-Link Wi-Fi 6 router that's an absolute beast as it drops to an all-time low price
22 hours ago
Everybody stay calm: Walmart is selling RTX 50 GPUs at MSRP or lower for a limited time
1 day ago
This chair moves with you: LiberNovo Omni's pre-sale begins after record Kickstarter
1 day ago
3 automation recipes that move files exactly where they belong
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
1 hour ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
3 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
If you pre-ordered Borderlands 4 on the Switch 2, I have bad news: the game has been delayed, but you might get a refund
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.