TV news - IMDb
MenuMoviesRelease calendarTop 250 moviesMost popular moviesBrowse movies by genreTop box officeShowtimes & ticketsMovie newsIndia movie spotlightTV showsWhat's on TV & streamingTop 250 TV showsMost popular TV showsBrowse TV shows by genreTV newsWatchWhat to watchLatest trailersIMDb OriginalsIMDb PicksIMDb SpotlightFamily entertainment guideIMDb PodcastsAwards & eventsOscarsEmmysToronto Int'l Film FestivalIMDb Stars to WatchSTARmeter AwardsAwards CentralFestival CentralAll eventsCelebsBorn todayMost popular celebsCelebrity newsCommunityHelp centerContributor zonePollsFor industry professionalsLanguageEnglish (United States)LanguageFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)AllAllWatchlistSign inENFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)Use app
TV newsNoah Wyle Wins First Career Emmy for HBO Max’s The PittSixth time proved the charm for Noah Wyle, who on Sunday took home his first Emmy for his acclaimed performance on The Pitt.Wyle, a five-time Emmy nominee for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for his turn as Dr. John Carter on NBC’s ER, earned his first nomination in 26 years — and his first as Lead Actor — for portraying Dr. Michael “Robby” Robinavitch on the HBO Max medical drama.More from TVLineEmmys 2025: Here's Why Paradise's Sterling K. Brown Was on That Scooter<em>The Pitt</em> Season 2: Everything We KnowEmmys 2025: Reba McEntire and Members of Little Big...See full article at TVLine.com9/15/2025by Ryan SchwartzTVLine.comCristin Milioti Calls ‘The Penguin’ Role a “Bright Spot” Despite Being “Grisly” While Accepting First EmmyThe Penguin star Cristin Milioti won the 2025 Emmy for lead actress in a limited series on Sunday, and she reflected on playing the role of Sofia Gigante in her acceptance speech.“Thank you so much. I’m so profoundly grateful,” she began, sharing that she wrote her speech on the back of a piece a paper from a recent therapy session. “I loved making this show and I loved playing Sofia so much.”The award marks Milioti’s first Emmys win, as well as her first nomination. She beat out Disclaimer‘s Cate Blanchett, Sirens‘ Meghann Fahy, Black Mirror‘s Rashida Jones and Dying for Sex‘s Michelle Williams for the honor.“It’s very hard to make sense of being alive right now in this world and so I’m deeply grateful for the bright spots,” she continued from the awards show stage. “And making this show with our...See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News9/15/2025by Katherine SchaffstallThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsStephen Graham Wins First Acting Emmy for ‘Adolescence’With 13 total nominations for its heart-stopping four episodes, Netflix’s smash hit limited series “Adolescence” seemed destined to clean up at this year’s Emmys ceremony. One big question entering Sunday, though, would that love be spread above and below the line?Star and co-creator Stephen Graham might have wondered about the same thing, but with two Emmys, including both his first Emmy win for acting and writing in the bag, he’s got plenty to celebrate.On Sunday evening, Graham first picked up the Emmy Outstanding Writing for a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie (shared with Jack Thorne) and then added to his total tally with his win for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie, beating out other major names like Colin Farrell (“The Penguin”), Jake Gyllenhaal (“Presumed Innocent”), Cooper Coch (“Monster”), and Brian Tyree Henry (“Dope Thief”).Upon hitting the stage for the second time this evening,...See full article at Indiewire9/15/2025by Kate ErblandIndiewirePhylicia Rashad Delivers Tribute to ‘Cosby Show’ Son Malcolm-Jamal Warner at Emmys: He ‘Remains in Our Hearts’Phylicia Rashad, who played the indelible matriarch Clair Huxtable on “The Cosby Show,” introduced the in memoriam performance at the 2025 Emmys and used the opportunity to say goodbye to her onscreen son, Theo Huxtable actor Malcolm-Jamal Warner.“He was a beloved teenager in an iconic television series who the world watched grow into manhood,” she said. “Like all our friends and colleagues who transitioned this past year, Malcolm-Jamal Warner remains in our hearts. Tonight, as is tradition at the Emmys, we remember them not just for their immense talent, but also for the way they made us believe in something bigger, the best that is within us. Even though they may not longer be here with us, we can all smile, knowing their impact will remain, knowing that their lasting impressions will continue to live on through story, knowing that they touched our lives. And whether you grew up watching them,...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/15/2025by William EarlVariety Film + TV‘Adolescence’ Star Owen Cooper Is the Youngest Male Actor to Win an EmmyAt 15, Owen Cooper is now the youngest ever Primetime Emmy winner for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie — and the youngest male acting winner, period. The “Adolescence” star took home the trophy on Sunday night, beating out his five adult fellow nominees: costar Ashley Walters, plus Javier Bardem, Bill Camp, Peter Sarsgaard and Rob Delaney.Cooper had already made history in July when he became the youngest-ever nominee in the supporting actor in a limited series category. Now he’s got the gold to seal his place in the record books. Not too shabby for a kid from outside Manchester, England, who had no acting...See full article at The Wrap9/15/2025by Missy SchwartzThe Wrap‘Severance’ Star Tramell Tillman Becomes First Black Actor to Win Emmy in Best Supporting Drama CategorySeverance star Tramell Tillman made history on Sunday night at the 2025 Emmy Awards, becoming the first Black man to ever win the best supporting actor in a drama series Emmy.Tillman, who this year received his first Emmy nomination and win, was nominated alongside Zach Cherry (Severance), James Marsden (Paradise), John Turturro (Severance), Sam Rockwell (The White Lotus), Jason Isaacs (The White Lotus) and Walton Goggins (The White Lotus).During his acceptance speech, Tillman, who stars as Milchick in the Apple TV+ series, said, “You remember what you want to remember. You make time for what you want to make time for, do the work, show up, and most importantly, for the love of God, don’t embarrass me in public.”He added, “My first acting coach was tough, y’all, but all great mothers are. Mama, you were there for me when no one else was and no one else would show up.See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News9/15/2025by Beatrice VerhoevenThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie News‘Severance’ Star Britt Lower Wins First Emmy for Drama Actress, Speech Paper Includes Nod to ShowBritt Lower took home the award for best lead actress in a drama series during Sunday night’s 2025 Emmys.Lower was nominated alongside Kathy Bates (Matlock), Sharon Horgan (Bad Sisters), Bella Ramsey (The Last of Us) and Keri Russell (The Diplomat).“I share this award with my heroic cast and crew,” the Severance star said when taking the stage. Throughout the rest of her speech she thanked her team, family and gave a special shout-out to her character on the Apple TV+ series.“Thank you for this, and thank you for Helly R for choosing me,” she said.Fans also noticed that Lower made a subtle nod to her character through a note written on the piece of paper she was reading her speech from. The words “Let Me Out” can be seen written on the paper.The second season of the series, created by Ben Stiller and Dan Erickson,...See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News9/15/2025by Lexy PerezThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsSeth Rogen Wins Emmy for Lead Actor in a Comedy for ‘The Studio’: ‘This Is So Nice’Hollywood loves Hollywood! Seth Rogen took home the Emmy on Sunday night for lead comedy actor for his role as studio head Matt Remick in Apple TV+’s “The Studio.”“I’ve literally prepared nothing, I’ve never won anything in my life,” Rogen said upon winning his trophy at the Peacock Theater. He then thanked his cast and crew, his wife and agents, but wasn’t sure who else to name. “I don’t know what to say. This is so nice. Thank you, I appreciate you all.”Coincidentally, Rogen didn’t name the head of the studio in his speech, despite the fact that there was a whole episode of “The Studio” about just that.Rogen was nominated alongside Adam Brody (“Nobody Wants This”), Jason Segel (“Shrinking”), Martin Short (“Only Murders in the Building”) and Jeremy Allen White (“The Bear”).The win didn’t come as much of...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/15/2025by Emily LongerettaVariety Film + TVHannah Einbinder Says ‘Hacks’ Will End With Season 5: ‘It’s Nice Not to Overstay Your Welcome’“Hacks” star Hannah Einbinder confirmed on the Emmys red carpet on Sunday that the HBO Max comedy series will conclude with its fifth season.“I think it will feel different,” Einbinder told E! host Heather McMahan. “We’re going to start [filming] next week, and knowing it’s the last season is really bittersweet. But I think it’s right, you know? I think it’s nice to do something as many times as it should be done. Not overstay your welcome. Rip it and do it and laugh and cry.”When McMahan repeated the “rip it” quote back to Einbinder, the supporting actress in a comedy Emmy nominee said: “You can quote me on that. I’m going on the record on that.”The show’s creators, Jen Statsky, Lucia Aniello and Paul W. Downs have often said they saw “Hacks” as a five-season show, but HBO Max has not...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/14/2025by Adam B. VaryVariety Film + TV‘The Witcher’ Season 4 First Look: Liam Hemsworth Replaces Henry Cavill as Geralt, Netflix Sets October Release DateToss a coin to your witcher because Geralt of Rivia is back on the hunt. Netflix has released the first look at Season 4 of “The Witcher,” the fantasy drama series adapted from CD Projekt Red’s video game franchise and Andrzej Sapkowski’s novels of the same name. The eight-episode season will arrive on Netflix on Oct. 30.Though the show’s white-haired protagonist Geralt was played by Henry Cavill in the first three seasons of the Netflix series, Cavill took to Instagram in October 2022 to announce that he was departing the series and that Liam Hemsworth would take over the role of the titular witcher.See full article at Variety - TV News9/14/2025by Lauren Coates and Jordan MoreauVariety - TV NewsWill Ferrell Netflix Golf Comedy Series Casts Chris Parnell, Katelyn Tarver, David HornsbyWill Ferrell’s upcoming Netflix series set in the world of golf is rounding out its cast.Variety has learned that Chris Parnell, Katelyn Tarver, and David Hornsby have all joined the comedy show alongside previously announced cast members Ferrell, Molly Shannon, Jimmy Tatro and Fortune Feimster. The show was originally announced in May 2024. Exact plot details are being under wraps, aside from the fact that Ferrell will play a fictional golf legend.Parnell will play Anton, described as “a PGA Tour board member and all around jerk.” The role marks a reunion for Parnell, Ferrell, and Shannon, as all...See full article at Variety - TV News9/12/2025by Joe OttersonVariety - TV NewsRobert Pattinson Read ‘The Batman 2’ Script From a ‘High-Security’ Locked ‘Pouch’; ‘Penguin’ Season 2 Is ‘In Discussions,’ Matt Reeves SaysAfter nearly four years since “The Batman” became a blockbuster in 2022, the script for “Part II” is finally done and shooting is set to begin early next year.“We start shooting [the film] in spring, probably around the end of April or beginning of May,” director Matt Reeves told Variety‘s Marc Malkin on the Emmys red carpet. “It’s been a long journey, but I am so incredibly excited. I’m really proud of the script me and Mattson [Tomlin] did, and we’ve started to share it with Robert [Pattinson].”Reeves revealed his excitement for coming back to the gritty world of Gotham and the lengths “The Batman” team had to go to keep the script under wraps. “We put [the script] into a secret pouch that literally has a lock on it with a code. [Pattinson] was in New York at the time, and everything is high security.”After finishing reading the script, Pattinson...See full article at Variety - Film News9/14/2025by Leia Mendoza and Marc MalkinVariety - Film NewsEmmys 2025 Review: A Chaotic Night Manages to Honor Television’s Best and Slam Them, TooThese days, the TV landscape is so vast and unwieldy that I guess it’s fitting that this year’s Emmys ceremony was, in a word, chaotic.Sunday’s ceremony on CBS was all over the place, mixing genuinely inspiring moments with stilted comedy bits — sometimes right next to each other. These Emmys were strangely anti-tv at times, with a self-deprecating tone that bordered on masochistic. But they also showcased the best that TV has to offer, with surprise wins and stirring speeches that reminded us of the sheer quantity of top-notch programming we’re blessed to have at our fingertips right now.See full article at TVLine.com9/15/2025by Dave NemetzTVLine.com2025 Emmys Winners List: ‘The Pitt,’ ‘The Studio,’ and ‘Adolescence’ Win Top PrizesAll the months of FYC events and campaigning to recognize the best in television art from the past season have come to a close. The 2025 Emmys have wrapped from L.A. Live’s Peacock Theater where they were hosted by comedian Nate Bargatze.“The Studio” ended up breaking the record for the most Emmys ever won by a comedy series in its first season with 13 overall, including the awards for Best Actor in a Comedy Series to Seth Rogen, Best Directing of a Comedy to Rogen and Evan Goldberg, and Best Writing of a Comedy to Rogen and the whole team. And finally, Outstanding Comedy Series. Yes, Seth Rogen ended up winning four Emmys himself after having previously been nominated for five Emmys in previous years and never won. Nine of the 13 Emmys for “The Studio” were handed out at the Creative Arts Emmys September 16.“Adolescence” won 8 Emmys overall, including Best Limited Series,...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Christian BlauveltIndiewire TelevisionEmmys 2025: Stephen Colbert Earns Huge Ovation as He Wins First Emmy as Late Show Host After CancellationCBS may be ending The Late Show, but Emmy voters aren’t ready to say goodbye yet.Stephen Colbert’s late-night talk show won the Emmy for Outstanding Talk Series on Sunday, its first win in the category since Colbert took the Late Show reins in 2015. The win comes just two months after CBS abruptly axed The Late Show in a surprise move — one that may have spurred voters to reward Colbert on his way out. (The win drew a loud roar of approval from the audience when it was announced in the room.)More from TVLineEmmys 2025: Here's Why...See full article at TVLine.com9/15/2025by Dave NemetzTVLine.com‘The Pitt’ Wins Emmy for Outstanding Drama Series“The Pitt” has appeared to be unstoppable from the moment it debuted on HBO Max, picking up fans at an overwhelming pace with its tense storytelling and breathing new life into the medical drama genre. That momentum continued all the way through the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards, as the show has won the Emmy for Outstanding Drama Series in its first season.The award marked the end of a huge night for the rookie drama, which ended up winning five Emmy’s including Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series for Noah Wyle and Supporting Actress in a Drama Series for Katherine Lanasa. The show had previously won Emmy’s for Casting and Guest Actor in a Drama Series for Shawn Hatosy, which were announced at last weekend’s Creative Arts Emmy Awards.Created by R. Scott Gemmill and executive produced by medical drama veteran John Wells, the show follows...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Christian ZilkoIndiewire TelevisionNoah Wyle Wins Emmy for Lead Actor in a Drama for ‘The Pitt’, Dedicates Win to ER WorkersNoah Wyle has won the Emmy Award for best actor in a drama series for “The Pitt.”He beat out fellow nominees Sterling K. Brown (“Paradise), Gary Oldman (“Slow Horses”), Pedro Pascal (“The Last of Us”), and Adam Scott (“Severance”) to win in the category.This was Wyle’s sixth acting Emmy nomination and seventh overall, as he also shares in “The Pitt’s” nomination for best drama series. This is also his first win. He was nominated five years in a row for best supporting actor in a drama for his role as Dr. John Carter in the hit medical drama “ER.See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Joe OttersonVariety - TV News‘The Pitt’ Star Noah Wyle Wins Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama SeriesAfter three decades as a primetime TV fixture, “The Pitt” star Noah Wyle finally won his first Emmy, for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series, at the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday, September 14.The win comes 30 years after his first Emmy nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for playing Dr. John Carter on the NBC staple “E.R.” Wyle would be nominated four more years in a row for his breakout role on the hit medical drama that he starred on for 254 episodes across 13 seasons.Though it is not an “E.R.” spinoff, and is formatted very differently (each episode is one hour of the workday a la “24”), HBO Max series “The Pitt,” about the daily lives of healthcare professionals during at particularly busy day at their Pittsburgh hospital, has been widely seen as the spiritual successor to Emmy-winning drama series “E.See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Marcus JonesIndiewire TelevisionEmmys 2025 Winners on Netflix: See the Full ListAfter a season of unforgettable television and must-see entertainment, the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards took place on Sept. 14 in Los Angeles, hosted by comedian Nate Bargatze. Ahead of the big night, Netflix earned 120 nominations across 44 titles, and won 30 awards, with Bridgerton, Beyoncé Bowl, Love, Death + Robots, and more all being recognized with statuettes.Adolescence was one of the biggest winners of the year, taking home eight Emmy Awards including Outstanding Limited or Anthology Series. Co-creator and star Stephen Graham, now a three-time Emmy winner for acting,writingand producing the series, spoke to the surprising sensation of his heartbreaking and urgent project: “We never expected our little program to have such a big impact.See full article at Tudum - Netflix9/15/2025by Jenny ChangnonTudum - Netflix‘The Studio’ Wins Emmy for Outstanding Comedy SeriesSeth Rogen‘s beleaguered studio head Matt Remick might not get the respect he so desperately craves on “The Studio,” but the Apple TV+ series just capped off a triumphant first season by winning one of television’s highest honors, the Emmy for Best Comedy Series. The win came as no surprise given the show’s staggering 23 nominations (a record for a comedy series in its first season) and nine wins at the Creative Arts Emmys (another comedy record) on September 6.“The Studio” follows the comic mishaps of Remick and his colleagues at Continental Studios, where Remick struggles to reconcile his love of cinema with the business demands of his job. The series garnered widespread attention and acclaim in its debut season for co-directors Rogen and Evan Goldberg’s technical wizardry, sharp but affectionate take on Hollywood, and pitch-perfect comic ensemble.“The Studio” also won audiences over with its abundant celebrity cameos.See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Jim HemphillIndiewire TelevisionClaire Danes and Matthew Rhys Star in 'The Beast in Me': Release Date, Cast, Plot, and MoreNo one can bring out your inner monster like a bad neighbor.Claire Danes and Matthew Rhys will find that out for themselves in The Beast in Me, a new eight-episode drama coming this fall from creator Gabe Rotter (The X-Files). Danes plays Aggie Wiggs, a grieving writer; Rhys plays Nile Jarvis, her new neighbor and possible murderer. But who’s the monster? And who’s the bad neighbor? That’s another story.Showrunner, executive producer, and writer Howard Gordon, who worked with Danes on Homeland, was ecstatic to team up with her again. “I was a fan well before I [met] her,” he tells Tudum. “She really has that uniquely...See full article at Tudum - Netflix9/15/2025by Stephan LeeTudum - Netflix‘Adolescence’ Star Stephen Graham Wins Limited Series Actor Emmy: This ‘Doesn’t Normally Happen’ to a ‘Mixed Race Kid’ Like MeStephen Graham won the lead limited series actor Emmy on Sunday, recognizing his portrayal of Eddie Miller in Netflix’s “Adolescence,” which he co-created.“This kind of thing doesn’t normally happen to a kid like me. I’m just a mixed-race kid from a block of flats in a place called Kirkby,” said Graham, who is of Swedish and Jamaican descent. “To be here today in front of my peers, and to be acknowledged by you, is the utmost humbling thing I could imagine my life, and it shows you that any dream is possible.”Among the people Thorne...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Selome HailuVariety - TV News‘Adolescence’ Wins Emmy for Outstanding Limited Series“Adolescence,” Netflix’s four-part miniseries exploring the fallout from a teen boy’s murder of one of his classmates in the North of England, has won the Emmy for Outstanding Limited or Anthology Series. The mature, harrowing look at the family, school, and community affected by the murder through a set of four continuous-take episodes was produced by Mark Herbert, Emily Feller, Hannah Walters, Stephen Graham, Brad Pitt, Dede Gardner, Jeremy Kleiner, Nina Wolarsky, Jack Thorne, Philip Barantini, Carina Sposato, Niall Shamma, Peter Balm, and Jo Johnson.Among that list, of course, the chief co-conspirators are actor, co-writer, and executive producer Stephen Graham and executive producer and co-writer Jack Thorne. Graham brought the concept for the series to Thorne as something that could work as a one-take show — something the pair had already worked with “Adolescence” director Philip Barantini on the film “Boiling Point” — and Thorne fleshed out the scripts...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Sarah ShachatIndiewire Television‘The Late Show with Stephen Colbert’ Wins Emmy for Outstanding Talk SeriesIt only took nine tries and a looming cancelation, but “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” is now the best late-night show on TV, per the Emmys. At Sunday’s Emmy ceremony, the iconic talk show won for Outstanding Talk Series — a category it’s been nominated in nine times and never won. The nightly series bested reigning champion “The Daily Show” (which had won two years in a row) and “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”The latter program actually campaigned for Colbert following CBS’s controversial decision in July to cancel “The Late Show.” Citing a “challenging backdrop” for late-night TV, the powers-that-be axed the 33-year-old television staple in what they called “purely a financial decision.”However, Paramount Global (CBS’s parent company) was trying to close a deal to merge with Skydance at the time, which required approval from the FCC — a government agency controlled by the Trump administration. Cutting Colbert,...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Ben TraversIndiewire TelevisionStephen Graham Wins First Acting Emmy for ‘Adolescence’With 13 total nominations for its heart-stopping four episodes, Netflix’s smash hit limited series “Adolescence” seemed destined to clean up at this year’s Emmys ceremony. One big question entering Sunday, though, would that love be spread above and below the line?Star and co-creator Stephen Graham might have wondered about the same thing, but with two Emmys, including both his first Emmy win for acting and writing in the bag, he’s got plenty to celebrate.On Sunday evening, Graham first picked up the Emmy Outstanding Writing for a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie (shared with Jack Thorne) and then added to his total tally with his win for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie, beating out other major names like Colin Farrell (“The Penguin”), Jake Gyllenhaal (“Presumed Innocent”), Cooper Coch (“Monster”), and Brian Tyree Henry (“Dope Thief”).Upon hitting the stage for the second time this evening,...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Kate ErblandIndiewire TelevisionEmmys 2025: ‘Gilmore Girls’ Stars Lauren Graham & Alexis Bledel Tease Rivalry With ‘ER’The 77th annual Emmy Awards were a night for major star-studded moments, one of which was the highly anticipated Gilmore Girls reunion with stars Lauren Graham and Alexis Bledel, who presented the award for Best Writing for a Comedy Series. While the reunion was a sweet nod to the show’s landmark anniversary, it also made way for the reveal of a surprising behind-the-scenes rivalry with ER. But how so? It might surprise fans. “Twenty-five years ago, a show called Gilmore Girls premiered and apparently took the season of fall hostage,” Graham began the presentation segment. “In spite of our autumnal dominance,” Bledel continued, adding that Gilmore Girls “was actually a very small show.See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV InsiderPhylicia Rashad Delivers Tribute to ‘Cosby Show’ Son Malcolm-Jamal Warner at Emmys: He ‘Remains in Our Hearts’Phylicia Rashad, who played the indelible matriarch Clair Huxtable on “The Cosby Show,” introduced the in memoriam performance at the 2025 Emmys and used the opportunity to say goodbye to her onscreen son, Theo Huxtable actor Malcolm-Jamal Warner.“He was a beloved teenager in an iconic television series who the world watched grow into manhood,” she said. “Like all our friends and colleagues who transitioned this past year, Malcolm-Jamal Warner remains in our hearts. Tonight, as is tradition at the Emmys, we remember them not just for their immense talent, but also for the way they made us believe in something bigger,...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by William EarlVariety - TV NewsHannah Einbinder on Pro-Palestine Emmy Acceptance Speech: ‘It’s My Obligation to Distinguish Jews from the State of Israel’When Hannah Einbinder won the Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series, the “Hacks” star ended her speech with a nod to the Philadelphia Eagles and a political rallying cry: “I just want to say Go Birds, fuck Ice, and free Palestine.”Appearing in the winners room alongside her “Hacks” co-star Jean Smart (who picked up a fourth win for Lead Actress in a Comedy Series tonight), Einbinder elaborated on her comments.“I thought it was important to talk about Palestine,” Einbinder said when asked about her support for Palestine and her opposition to Israel’s ongoing response to the October 7th attacks. “It’s an issue that’s very dear to my heart. I have friends in Gaza who are working as frontline workers, as doctors now in the north of Gaza to provide care for pregnant women and to create schools in refugee camps.”Einbinder was...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Christian ZilkoIndiewire TelevisionEmmy Viewers Slam Charity Money Ticker as ‘Diabolical’On TV’s biggest night, a money ticker appeared on the screen that took away $1,000 every time a winner went over their allotted time. Emmy viewers called the act “diabolical” as the money went to charity. Host Nate Bargatze explained at the beginning of the broadcast on Sunday, September 14, that he would donate $100,000 to the Boys & Girls Club of America. However, every time a winner’s speech went over 45 seconds, the money would start counting down. “Every second you go over, we take away $1,000 from the Boys & Girls Club,” Bargatze said. “I’m not taking it away. It’s you, if you want to thank your agent and your fifth...See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV Insider‘The Penguin’ Star Cristin Milioti Wrote Her Emmy Winner Speech on the Back of Her Therapy Notes: ‘Don’t Look at the Back’Cristin Milioti won the Emmy for lead limited series actress on Sunday in recognition of her portrayal of Sofia Gigante in HBO’s “The Penguin.” This is her first Emmy nomination and win.“Sorry, I wrote this on the back of notes I took in therapy the other day, so don’t look at the back,” she said as she took the stage to accept her award.“It’s very hard to make sense of being alive right now in this world, so I’m deeply grateful for the bright spots,” she continued. “Making this show with our incredible cast and crew,...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Selome HailuVariety - TV NewsCristin Milioti Wins Emmy for Outstanding Actress in a Limited Series or MovieCristin Milioti just won her first Emmy Award for HBO’s “The Penguin” and her performance as Sofia Falcone (Gigante). A year after the limited series first made waves, this is just the latest in a series of accolades that Milioti has received for her work in “The Penguin,” including a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination and Critics Choice Award win.Milioti was escorted to the stage by costar Colin Farrell, and got a standing ovation from “The White Lotus” star Natasha Rothwell.“It’s very hard to make sense of being alive right now in this world, so I’m deeply grateful for the bright spots,” Milioti said in her acceptance speech (scribbled on the back of therapy notes from earlier in the week). “Getting to inhabit this woman was a bright spot for me, despite it being very grisly. Playing her felt like flying.”While “The Penguin” begins...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Proma KhoslaIndiewire TelevisionErin Doherty Wins Emmy Award for ‘Adolescence’Erin Doherty, who plays psychologist Briony Ariston in Episode 3 of “Adolescence,” has won her first Emmy award for Outstanding Supporting Actress. While Doherty only appears in one of the four episodes of the Netflix miniseries, it is a marathon two-hander of a story, wherein Ariston assesses teen murderer Jamie Miller’s (Owen Cooper) mental state and awareness of his own guilt.Executive producer, co-writer, and star Stephen Graham charged his collaborator, executive producer and co-writer Jack Thorne, with turning this episode of “Adolescence” into a “Mamet play.” Thorne and then the show’s crew had to figure out a number of structural and logistical hurdles to nail so that the audience is fully immersed in the back and forth between the two characters, sitting at a table across from each other in an empty playroom on a rainy day. But it is squarely on Doherty’s shoulders to guide the...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Sarah ShachatIndiewire TelevisionTwd: Daryl Dixon Tees Up a Sweet Romance — and a Horrific New TwistLove was in the air in Sunday’s The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon. Unfortunately, so was the stench of corruption and rotting flesh. Care to hold your nose and discuss? Let’s give it a shot.As “La Ofrenda” began, Carol spied young sweethearts Roberto and Justina from afar. (That wasn’t children Carol heard last week; it was these two.) Before Daryl could rob them, they were set upon by bandoleros. Daryl saved the lovers, then forced them to lead the way back to Solaz — the last place that they wanted to go — so that Carol could heal up.See full article at TVLine.com9/15/2025by Charlie MasonTVLine.comGilmore Girls Reunite at the Emmy Awards: Lauren Graham, Alexis BledelTheir theme song goes, “Where you lead/I will follow/Anywhere that you tell me to”, and that’s exactly what happened when Emmy producers requested the Gilmore Girls — aka Lauren Graham (Lorelei) and Alexis Bledel (Rory) — to reunite at the 77th ceremony to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the beloved family dramedy’s premiere.The duo emerged onto a set decked out like Lorelei’s home and delivered a rapid-fire, pop culture-packed back-and-forth before presenting the Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series award. Some highlights include:Lauren: Twenty-five years ago a show called Gilmore Girls premiered and apparently took the season of fall hostageAlexis: In spite of our autumnal dominance,...See full article at Tudum - Netflix9/15/2025by Henry GoldblattTudum - NetflixIs ‘Adolescence’ Star Owen Cooper the Youngest Emmy Winner Ever?Owen Cooper has officially taken home his first Emmy, winning Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series for his powerful turn in Netflix’s Adolescence. In the acclaimed miniseries, he portrayed Jamie Miller, a 13-year-old boy arrested for the murder of his classmate, Katie Leonard. With this win, Cooper becomes the youngest male winner in any acting category at just 15 years old. The previous record holder was Scott Jacoby, who was 16 when he won for That Certain Summer in 1973. “Standing up here is just so surreal,” said the Emmy winner. “Honestly, when I started these drama classes, I didn’t expect to be in the U.S. much less here.See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV Insider‘Gilmore Girls’ Stars Lauren Graham and Alexis Bledel Joke About Show’s Low Budget During Emmy Reunion: ‘We Had No Money’ and ‘Looked Hungry’Stars Hollow came back to Hollywood on Sunday.During the Emmys, “Gilmore Girls” stars Lauren Graham and Alexis Bledel presented the award for comedy writing together in honor of the show’s 25th anniversary, during which they praised their beloved series’ writers — and made fun of its low budget.“25 years ago, a show called ‘Gilmore Girls’ premiered, and apparently took the season of fall hostage,” Graham said, referencing how the show’s fans often rewatch it annually beginning in September. Bledel added, “In spite of our autumnal dominance, ‘Gilmore was actually a very small show.”“Meaning we had no money,...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Leia Mendoza and Selome HailuVariety - TV News‘Matlock’ Trailer: Will Matty Go to Jail? Olympia Compiles Her ‘Federal Offenses’ (Video)The truth is coming out in Matlock Season 2, the trailer for which debuted during a commercial break during the 2025 Emmy Awards on Sunday, September 14, on CBS. Everything has changed now that Madeline “Matty” Matlock (Kathy Bates) knows that Julian (Jason Ritter) hid the Wellbrexa document, but Olympia (Skye P. Marshall) has chosen to side with her ex-husband. Matty and Olympia’s tension rises so much, Olympia compiles “a list of Madeline Kingston’s federal offenses.” While Olympia’s trying to protect Julian, Matty is threatening to go to the press with her and husband Edwin’s (Sam Anderson) findings. She’s hesitant because of what it could do to her friendship with Olympia,...See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV Insider‘Severance’ Creator Dan Erickson on Season 3: ‘We Know the End,’ but We’re ‘Playing Jazz a Little Bit’“Severance” has already picked up two Primetime Emmy wins on Sunday night — from stars Britt Lower and Tramell Tillman — but earlier in the evening, creator Dan Erickson spoke to IndieWire about what’s next for the series.“We know the end, and we don’t really know how we’re getting there,” Erickson said on the red carpet. “We have some idea of how we’re getting there, but we definitely like to be open to playing jazz a little bit and changing things as we go along, falling in love with characters that we didn’t necessarily expect to fall in love with, and incorporating them into the story in new ways. I think it is possible to overplan, but we know where we’re going at the end of the day.”So that’s reassuring, at least, that the showrunners know where “Severance” is headed. There was a...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Ryan Lattanzio and Christian ZilkoIndiewire TelevisionEric Dane Missing From ‘Grey’s Anatomy’ Emmys Reunion Amid Als DiagnosisThe plastics posse was expected to get back together at last on Sunday’s (September 14) telecast for the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards. Ahead of the awards show, CBS announced that former Grey’s Anatomy stars Eric Dane and Jesse Williams, who played Mark Sloan and Jackson Avery, respectively, would both be appearing at the show as presenters, and many fans expected this would mark a reunion of the actors, whose characters were very close on the series. Dane, who recently announced his diagnosis with Als, was not present during Williams’ presentation for the Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series award, however. The Countdown star previously attended public events for his Amazon Prime Video series in June.See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV Insider‘Adolescence’ Star Owen Cooper Becomes Youngest Emmy Winner Ever for Supporting Actor in Limited SeriesOwen Cooper won the Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie Sunday for his work on the Netflix miniseries “Adolescence.”Along with Cooper, nominees in the limited-series supporting actor category included Javier Bardem for his performance in Netflix’s “Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story,” FX’s “Dying for Sex” actor Rob Delaney, Apple TV+’s “Presumed Innocent” star Peter Sarsgaard, Bill Camp, also of “Presumed Innocent” and Netflix’s “Adolescence” actor Ashley Walters.“Standing up here is just so surreal. Honestly, when I started these drama classes a couple years back, I...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Jennifer MaasVariety - TV NewsOwen Cooper Wins Emmy for 2025 Best Supporting Actor — Limited SeriesOwen Cooper, the breakout star of Netflix’s hit limited series “Adolescence,” has won the Emmy for 2025 Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie, making him the youngest male Emmy winner ever at age 15.Cooper was 14 when he filmed “Adolescence,” and he was also the youngest actor to ever be nominated in his category. Roxana Zal, who won an Emmy in 1984 for the special “Something About Amelia,” remains the youngest winner ever in any category at age 14.But especially notable for Cooper is that his Emmy win came for his first on-screen performance of his career. He’s already parlayed the acclaim he’s received for his work into playing a young Heathcliffe (who grows into Jacob Elordi) in Emerald Fennell’s upcoming “Wuthering Heights” adaptation.Cooper won over a field that also included his “Adolescence” co-star Ashley Waters, as well as a bunch of seasoned actors many years his senior,...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Brian WelkIndiewire TelevisionWhat Is Sterling K. Brown’s Injury? Why the ‘Paradise’ Actor Is on a Scooter at the EmmysSterling K. Brown didn’t let his recent injury keep him from the 2025 Emmys. The This Is Us star rolled up on a knee scooter to present the award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series, alongside Julianne Nicholson and James Marsden. Brown himself is nominated for Best Lead Drama Actor for his role in Hulu’s Paradise, which is also up for Outstanding Drama Series. Brown didn’t address his injury during the ceremony, but he explained his situation on Tuesday, September 9, just five days before the Emmys. “Hopefully this will condense the number of times that I’ll have to share some unfortunate news — not horrible news,...See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV InsiderEmmys 2025 Executive Arrivals — Top TV Leaders AssembleTelevision industry leaders assembled Sunday afternoon for the 77th Emmy Awards, handed out at the Peacock Theater in downtown Los Angeles. Executives and movers and shakers from across the content business made their way down the red carpet to celebrate the industry’s best and brightest.More to comeMore from VarietyHow to Watch the 2025 Emmy Awards Live Online'The Pitt' Stars Taylor Dearden and Patrick Ball Tease Mel and Langdon's Season 2 Reunion: 'He Might Need Her More Than He Thinks'Final Emmy Predictions, As Chosen By Variety's Awards Circuit Podcast Hosts...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Cynthia LittletonVariety - TV NewsAnna Gunn Reprises ‘Breaking Bad’ Role for Emmys Commercial — Fans React (Video)Anna Gunn is one of the few Breaking Bad stars who didn’t get to reprise her role for the series’ follow-ups, the prequel series Better Call Saul and the sequel film El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie. However, on Sunday (September 14), she finally got the chance to step back into Skyler White’s shoes … well, sort of. Airing during the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards broadcast was a new commercial for Popwell featuring the actress in a kitchen with similar vibes to the White’s Albuquerque, New Mexico, house in the decorated AMC series, as she scolded cooks and winked to the series’ iconic “Say my name” line. “Trust me.See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV InsiderSurprise Emmy Winner Jeff Hiller Thanks HBO for Putting the ‘Sweaty Middle-Aged People’ of ‘Somebody Somewhere’ Next to the ‘Sexy Teens’ of ‘Euphoria’In a surprise victory, “Somebody Somewhere” star Jeff Hiller has won the Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy at the Sunday night ceremony.“I feel like I’m going to cry, because for the past 25 years I have been like, world, I want to be an actor! And the world was like, maybe computers,” Hiller said in his speech.“I just want to say thank you to HBO for putting a show about sweaty middle-aged people on the same network as the sexy teens of ‘Euphoria,” Hiller continued. “Thank you to the Duplass brothers for writing a show...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Michael SchneiderVariety - TV News‘The Studio’ Makes Emmys History as the Most Awarded Comedy Ever, Seth Rogen Ties for Most Individual Wins in One Night“The Studio” (and Seth Rogen) are on top.At the Primetime ceremony, Apple TV+’s “The Studio” won 13 Emmys, breaking the all-time record for most wins for a comedy series, in addition to already breaking the freshman comedy series record. Moreover, Rogen ties the record for most Emmys won by a single individual in one night, joining Moira Demos (2016), Amy Sherman-Palladino (2018) and Dan Levy (2020).FX’s “The Bear” set the record in 2023, when it took home 10 trophies at the 77th Emmys, including outstanding comedy series and three acting prizes.On Sunday’s main ceremony, “The Studio” won two awards for...See full article at Variety - TV News9/15/2025by Clayton DavisVariety - TV NewsEmmys 2025: Here’s Why Paradise’s Sterling K. Brown Was on That ScooterSterling K. Brown showed up on the Emmys stage Sunday on a knee scooter as the result of an injury he says he incurred while playing sports.Brown appeared alongside his Paradise co-stars Julianne Nicholson and James Marsden to present the award for Outstanding Supporting Actor, Comedy to Somebody Somewhere‘s Jeff Hiller.More from TVLineEmmys 2025: Reba McEntire and Members of Little Big Town Sing The Golden Girls ThemeNo Emmys Opener Will Ever Bring as Much Glee as 2010's 'Born to Run'Overcompensating Renewed for Season 2 at Prime VideoBrown tore his Achilles tendon, which connects the calf muscles to the heel bone,...See full article at TVLine.com9/15/2025by Kimberly RootsTVLine.com‘Doc’ Boss Breaks Down Season 2 Premiere: Amy-Michael-Jake Love Triangle, Setting up Felicity Huffman’s Debut & More[Warning: The below contains Major spoiler for the Doc Season 2 premiere “Her Heart.”] That look between Amy (Molly Parker) and her ex-husband, Michael (Omar Metwally), is certainly loaded at the end of the Doc Season 2 premiere, so even though they’ve said goodbye to each other, it’s clear why executive producer Barbie Kligman tells TV Insider, “The love triangle [which also includes Jon Ecker‘s Jake] is very much alive.” Jake, however, is separating himself from Amy after seeing the moment she and Michael shared in his office at the end of the Season 1 finale; as he sees it, she still sees Michael as her home. Meanwhile, Amy’s past comes back to haunt her and the rest of the staff when a patient she...See full article at TV Insider9/15/2025TV Insider‘Hacks’ Will End with Upcoming Season 5, as Emmy Winner Hannah Einbinder Revealed“Hacks” is about to have its curtain call. Star Hannah Einbinder on the red carpet at the Emmys told E! that the upcoming fifth season of “Hacks” would be the HBO Max series’ last.An individual with knowledge of the series confirmed the news to IndieWire, adding that it was always meant to be a 5-season series, per what creators Lucia Aniello, Paul W. Downs, and Jen Statsky had always envisioned for their Hollywood satire series.That detail, though, seems to be news to most, as “Hacks” was picked up for a fifth season back in May, and Einbinder told E! red carpet host Heather McMahan, “you can quote me on that. I’m going on the record on that.” Einbinder went on to win the Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy.“I think it will feel different,” Einbinder said on the carpet. “We’re going to start [filming] next week,...See full article at Indiewire Television9/15/2025by Brian WelkIndiewire TelevisionEmmys 2025: Reba McEntire and Members of Little Big Town Sing The Golden Girls ThemePicture it: The Peacock Theater, Los Angeles, 2025…Reba McEntire (Happy’s Place) and Little Big Town’s Karen Fairchild and Kimberly Schlapman proved themselves both pals and confidants of The Golden Girls by singing the comedy’s theme song on stage at the Emmys Sunday.More from TVLineEmmys 2025: Here's Why Paradise's Sterling K. Brown Was on That ScooterNo Emmys Opener Will Ever Bring as Much Glee as 2010's 'Born to Run'Emmys 2025 Poll: Who Should Win for Supporting Actor in a Limited Series?The trio of country stars gathered on a re-creation of the sitcom’s kitchen set to mark the...See full article at TVLine.com9/15/2025by Kimberly RootsTVLine.com50 moreIMDb.com, Inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, Tweets, or blog posts. This content is published for the entertainment of our users only. The news articles, Tweets, and blog posts do not represent IMDb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. Please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy.
More to exploreRecently viewedYou have no recently viewed pages
Get the IMDb AppSign in for more accessSign in for more accessFollow IMDb on socialGet the IMDb AppFor Android and iOSHelpSite IndexIMDbProBox Office MojoLicense IMDb DataPress RoomAdvertisingJobsConditions of UsePrivacy PolicyYour Ads Privacy ChoicesIMDb, an Amazon company© 1990-2025 by IMDb.com, Inc.Back to top