Docker build in WSL fails on curl download (curl: 56, unexpected eof) - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Docker build in WSL fails on curl download (curl: 56, unexpected eof)
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
59 times
1
I am trying to build a static FrankenPHP binary using their official Docker setup on Windows 10 with WSL 2 (Ubuntu). The build process, which uses docker buildx bake, fails at a step that downloads the static-php-cli (spc) binary.
docker buildx bake --load \
--set static-builder-musl.args.PHP_VERSION=8.2 \
--set static-builder-musl.args.FRANKENPHP_VERSION=v1.9.1 \
--set static-builder-musl.args.PHP_EXTENSIONS=pdo_sqlsrv,sqlsrv \
static-builder-musl
Executing docker build step
Error Log on Docker
curl -o spc -fsSL https://d1.static-php.dev/static-php-cli/spc-bin/nightly/spc-linux-x86_64
curl: (56) OpenSSL SSL_read: OpenSSL/3.5.2: error:0A000126:SSL routines::unexpected eof while reading, errno 0
Troubleshooting Steps I've Taken:
Direct curl in WSL: I ran the exact same curl command directly in my WSL terminal (outside of Docker), and it failed with the identical curl: (56) error.
I temporarily disabled my Windows Defender Firewall for both private and public networks, but the error persisted in WSL.
and then access via browser, i got this
Access Browser
dockercurlwindows-subsystem-for-linux
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited Sep 14 at 13:32
luhur65luhur65
asked Sep 14 at 13:26
luhur65luhur65
1155 bronze badges
New contributor
luhur65 is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
1
I got this error again — it's so frustrating trying to compile FrankenPHP as a static binary. You can see the error in the screenshot I posted in the FrankenPHP discussion
github.com/php/frankenphp/discussions/…
luhur65
–
luhur65
2025-09-15 07:21:21 +00:00
Commented
2 days ago
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
2
I think the issue might be that d1.static-php.dev doesn't resolve.
When I run that curl command on Fedora, I get the message "url: (6) Could not resolve host: d1.static-php.dev"
I suspect it's supposed to be a lowercase "L" instead of a numerical "1".
I'm pretty sure that replacing that curl with this will fix it:
curl -o spc -fsSL https://dl.static-php.dev/static-php-cli/spc-bin/nightly/spc-linux-x86_64
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered Sep 14 at 19:20
d-chordd-chord
56844 silver badges88 bronze badges
1 Comment
Add a comment
luhur65 luhur65 Sep 14 at 19:48
Thanks a lot for taking the time to answer my question! 🙏
I checked inside build-static.sh from FrankenPHP, and I actually found the same snippet you mentioned:
# curl -o spc -fsSL "https://dl.static-php.dev/static-php-cli/spc-bin/nightly/spc-linux-${dl_arch}"
cp ../../local_deps/spc ./spc
chmod +x spc
spcCommand="./spc"
I also tried running the curl command from another laptop and on a different network, and it worked without any issues. So it looks like the URL itself is fine, probably just an environment or DNS problem on my side. Really appreciate your effort! 2025-09-14T19:48:09.457Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
dockercurlwindows-subsystem-for-linux
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Related
1700
How to force Docker for a clean build of an image
501
docker: "build" requires 1 argument. See 'docker build --help'
587
Why is docker build not showing any output from commands?
471
docker build with --build-arg with multiple arguments
403
Cannot download Docker images behind a proxy
501
How can I inspect the file system of a failed `docker build`?
317
build context for docker image very large
290
docker-compose up vs docker-compose up --build vs docker-compose build --no-cache
Hot Network Questions
My pure mathematics PhD dissertation will likely be very short. I have until the last day of January 2026 to remedy this. What can I do?
Energy Conservation for Quantum Systems
What is the rationale behind the WebAssembly `if` statements behaving like `block` when it comes to breaking (`br`), rather than being transparent?
What keeps cotton thread together and why does old cotton thread becomes easily torn apart?
Drawing vertical and horizontal vectors along a Bézier curve (without local rotation)
Is there any guideline to make it portable regarding filepath related code?
How to remove the empty star in Files (Nautilus)?
Why do “inconsolable” and “uncomfortable” have such different meanings?
Pressure treated or regular wood for temporary ramp?
How to publish PhD work after a fractured relationship with primary supervisor?
A question regarding a family of one-relator groups
New in my job, made a mistake with crediting a colleague – how should I handle this?
What does the SH pin on HDMI do?
Is electrolysis of alumina (Al2O3) without cryolite possible to produce pure aluminum?
Did Trump say "smart people don't like me"?
Should beginner writers publish short story science fiction on Amazon short reads to get experience?
1970s-90s story where refugees flee through an escape tunnel and emerge unexpectedly in another world
What is a resource on encodings for Turing machines?
To what extent do we define an irreproducible result?
Can a non-spellcaster use an Enspelled Weapon to cast its spell?
TikZ bounding box not calculated properly in standalone class
Is this alternating current Peltier device possible?
append iterator value to variable in for loop
Peg solitaire starting position
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093