5 security risks of ISP-provided routers and how to fix them
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
5 security risks of ISP-provided routers and how to fix them
By
Ty Sherback
Published Sep 1, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
When you sign up to receive Internet service from an ISP, they'll usually provide a router and modem, or a combo unit of the two. While it will certainly get you online, it quietly leaves a few doors ajar for malicious actors, putting your security and privacy at risk. This is exceedingly common with routers provided by ISPs, but you can lock things down fairly easily with a few tweaks.
Default credentials
An easy fix
When your ISP provides you with a router and the technician sets everything up, most (if not all) of the credentials will be set to default. This could be something as small as your SSID, but it could also be your admin credentials for changing settings on your router. Many of these default credentials can be brute forced with different combinations of the word "admin" and "password" at worst, and at best, they're physically printed on the router somewhere, which also isn't ideal. Changing these credentials should be one of the first things you do. Create a strong, unique password for both the Wi-Fi and the admin console.
Unnecessary features are set to on by default
Convenience should be second to security
The convenience of certain networking features like Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) and WPS is clear, and it can make connecting new devices a breeze, but it leaves so many holes in your network security that they shouldn't be enabled. Unfortunately, these features can be enabled by default, depending on your ISP. WPS is particularly troublesome. "Wi-Fi Protected Setup", as it's called, is pretty much a misnomer, as it allows anyone to connect to your network via a physical button press on the router, or using PIN-based authentication. Many of these WPS PINs that come stock on ISP-provided routers are hardcoded in the firmware, and are not able to be changed. The best course of action is to just disable WPS entirely. As far as UPnP goes, it was more meant for LAN usage, but some routers have it enabled on Internet-facing ports, leaving them vulnerable to a wide range of attacks. If your router supports it, disable NAT-PMP as well, as it essentially performs the same action as UPnP.
Use the latest Wi-Fi security standard
Forget about WEP or WPA mixed modes
Some routers, especially older ones, ship with WPA2 as the default security standard for your Wi-Fi. To make matters even worse, sometimes they'll enable WEP and WPA mixed modes for compatibility reasons, but these standards are woefully outdated, and are incredibly trivial to crack using modern tools. Always select WPA3 if your devices will support it, and at worst, WPA2 can be used as long as it has been set up to use AES encryption. Disable WEP and older versions of WPA if they're not in use by devices in your home.
Outdated firmware
ISPs can be slow in pushing updates
Like any device, routers have their own firmware, and as is the case with any kind of software, there can be bugs and vulnerabilities that can be detrimental to the security of your home network. Fortunately, they also receive updates that patch these bugs and vulnerabilities, but there's a decent chance your ISP doesn't push them out frequently enough. You should be able to check if your router has been updated through the admin console, and some will enable you to force an update.
Buy your own router
The best choice for locking things down
In an effort to provide the most consistent, seamless experience for their end users, ISPs will lock down a lot of router settings by design. This lack of control can be troublesome for users that want to take charge of their own network security, as things like advanced security features, remote management, and even rudimentary changes like DNS addresses are locked, only available to technicians from your ISP. If you want to be able to fully secure your router, the best choice is to bring your own. This enables you to choose exactly how you want everything configured, and while your traffic will always have to go through some element of your ISP's equipment, it's much easier to minimize potential vulnerabilities with your own hardware. Consumer-grade routers from reputable brands will come with more frequent security updates, better features, and even better performance.
ISP routers aren't always bad
While it heavily depends on who your ISP is, some of the provided hardware can give you a level of control that's adequate for locking things down. The default settings might also be configured more with bare bones functionality in mind, instead of opting for maximum convenience at the cost of security. This is the exception, though, rather than the rule, and it always pays to double-check all the settings on the router that your ISP provides, even if you're using your own as a bridge.
Networking
Router
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Drono
Drono
Drono
#DK523998
Member since 2025-06-30
0
Threads
28
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Also. Some lock your dns down to their servers. Always switch the DNS. To quad9, cloudflare or Google. And best run your own local server to cut out the ad domains. + Enable DNSSEC. For your phone a Dns over Tls is not a bad idea too (called private DNS in settings). This let's you change the DNS for mobile data.
2025-09-03 06:38:16
Upvote
1
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
7 days ago
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
Sep 9, 2025
Immutable operating systems are a blessing and a curse
6 days ago
I work from home, but I'd rather use my laptop instead of my desktop
Sep 9, 2025
The most alive and immersive open-world maps ever created
Today's best deals
This ultra-compact keyboard with Qi wireless charging is now just $36
1 hour ago
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
12 hours ago
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
18 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I always play these 4 game franchises on PlayStation over Xbox consoles, and it's better that way
5 reasons my RTX 3080's successor is an AMD GPU
Ranking every Gears of War game from best to worst
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.