Eric Bailey on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Eric Bailey
Inclusive design and accessibility advocate. Recovering curmudgeon.
@ericwbailey
·
ericwbailey.design/
Direct link to the article “Evergreen” Does Not Mean Immediately Available
@supports cross-browser progressive enhancement
“Evergreen” Does Not Mean Immediately Available
I have a coworker who is smart, capable, and technologically-literate. Like me, they work on the web full-time.
When they are sharing their screen in a meeting, I find myself disassociating fixating on the red update button in their copy …
Feb 8, 2022
Direct link to the article Test Your Product on a Crappy Laptop
testing
Test Your Product on a Crappy Laptop
There is a huge and ever-widening gap between the devices we use to make the web and the devices most people use to consume it. It’s also no secret that the average size of a website is huge, and …
Mar 2, 2022
Direct link to the article CSS is a Strongly Typed Language
CSS is a Strongly Typed Language
One of the ways you can classify a programming language is by how strongly or weakly typed it is. Here, “typed” means if variables are known at compile time. An example of this would be a scenario where an integer …
Apr 13, 2021
Direct link to the article Representation Matters
Representation Matters
This year I had the pleasure of re-launching The Accessibility Project. I spend a lot of time researching and writing about accessibility and inclusive design, so this felt like the cumulation of a lot of that effort. The site …
Dec 14, 2020
Direct link to the article Focus management and inert
accessibility focus inert
Focus management and inert
Many forms of assistive technology use keyboard navigation to understand and take action on screen content. One way of navigating is via the Tab key. You may already be familiar with this way of navigating if you use it to …
Feb 2, 2022
Direct link to the article CSS Functions Guide
functions
CSS Functions Guide
Like any other programming language, CSS has functions. They can be inserted where you’d place a value, or in some cases, accompanying another value declaration.
Aug 21, 2025
Direct link to the article SVG, Favicons, and All the Fun Things We Can Do With Them
dark mode favicon media queries SVG svg icons
SVG, Favicons, and All the Fun Things We Can Do With Them
Favicons are the little icons you see in your browser tab. They help you understand which site is which when you’re scanning through your browser’s bookmarks and open tabs. They’re a neat part of internet history that are capable of …
Feb 8, 2022
Direct link to the article What the Web Still Is
What the Web Still Is
Being a pessimist is an easy thing to fall back on, and I’m trying to be better about it. As we close the year out, I thought it would be a good exercise to take stock of the state of …
Jun 8, 2020
Direct link to the article Revisiting prefers-reduced-motion, the reduced motion media query
accessibility animation prefers-reduced-motion
Revisiting prefers-reduced-motion, the reduced motion media query
Two years ago, I wrote about prefers-reduced-motion, a media query introduced into Safari 10.1 to help people with vestibular and seizure disorders use the web. The article provided some background about the media query, why it was needed, and …
Feb 2, 2022
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top