Analytics on AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Analytics on AWS
Overview
What is
Amazon SageMaker
Analytics Services
Partners
More
Products›
Analytics
Analytics on AWS
A comprehensive set of capabilities for every analytics workload, optimized for price performance and scale
Overview
AWS offers a comprehensive set of capabilities for every analytics workload. From data processing and SQL analytics to streaming, search, and business intelligence, AWS delivers unmatched price performance and scalability with governance built in. Choose purpose-built services optimized for specific workloads or streamline and manage your data and AI workflows with Amazon SageMaker. Whether you're starting your data journey or seeking an integrated experience, AWS gives you the right analytics capabilities to help you reinvent your business with data.
Drive tangible business outcomes with analytics on AWS
Blog
Streaming
Nexthink scales to trillions of events per day with Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK)
Learn more
Customer Story
SQL analytics
EOS Group migrates data to Amazon Redshift, reducing infrastructure cost by 50%
Learn more
Blog
Data processing
Paytm modernizes data pipeline and streamlines data processing using Amazon EMR
Learn more
Customer Story
Business intelligence
Trustly generates insights 4x faster using Amazon QuickSight
Learn more
Customer Story
Search analytics
Yotpo reduces operational overhead for a mission-critical offering using Amazon OpenSearch Service
Learn more
Blog
Data and AI governance
Volkswagen Autoeuropa simplifies access to quality data using Amazon DataZone
Learn more
Accelerate data, analytics, and AI with an integrated experience
Bringing together widely adopted AWS machine learning (ML) and analytics capabilities, the next generation of Amazon SageMaker delivers an integrated experience for analytics and AI with unified access to all your data. Collaborate and build faster from a unified studio using familiar AWS tools for model development, generative AI application development, data processing, and SQL analytics, accelerated by Amazon Q Developer, the most capable generative AI assistant for software development. Access all your data, whether it's stored in data lakes, data warehouses, or third-party or federated data sources, with governance built into address enterprise security needs. Learn more about SageMaker.
Enabling multicloud strategies with AWS
AWS offers a comprehensive collection of powerful analytics services that enable seamless data access and processing across multicloud and hybrid environments. You can achieve this flexibility through federated querying, data integration, secure data movement, and compatibility with open standards- allowing you to gain insights from all of your data regardless of where it resides.
Amazon Athena
Amazon Athena allows you to query and gain insights from data stored in a variety of external data sources, including Azure Data Lake Storage, Google Cloud Storage, Microsoft SQL Server, and many others - without the need to copy or transform the data.
AWS Glue
AWS Glue simplifies the discovery, preparation, and integration of all your data at any scale, with connectors for over 100 different data sources spanning cloud storage, databases, and analytics services. Glue's zero-ETL integrations make it easy to ingest and replicate data from third-party applications like Salesforce, SAP, Facebook Ads, and Instagram Ads directly into your AWS lakehouses, data lakes, and data warehouses. AWS Glue also offers data interoperability through support for open standards like Apache Hive, Apache Parquet, and Apache Iceberg.
Amazon SageMaker
The next generation of Amazon SageMaker is built on an open data lakehouse architecture, providing unified access to data lakes and data warehouses on AWS as well as federated data sources like Google BigQuery and Snowflake. This lakehouse architecture is fully compatible with Apache Iceberg, giving you flexibility to access and query data in-place using any Iceberg-compatible tools and engines.
Choose from a comprehensive set of purpose-built analytics services
Increase data-driven impact with a comprehensive selection of purpose-built analytics services. From fast and cost-effective data warehousing to petabyte-scale data processing, modern business intelligence, and real-time streaming, AWS offers a broad selection of analytics capabilities optimized for price performance and scale.
Play
Services
Analytics category
Description
AWS service and capabilities
Streaming
Build, scale, and operate real-time data pipelines and applications without the burden of infrastructure management.
Amazon Data Firehose Amazon Kinesis Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink Amazon MSK
Data lakehouse, Data warehouse, Data lake
Access and analyze all your data in data lakehouses, data warehouses, and data lake.
Lakehouse Architecture Amazon Redshift Amazon S3 data lake
Data processing
Analyze, prepare, and integrate data for analytics and AI using open-source frameworks.
Athena Amazon EMR AWS Glue Amazon Managed Workflows for Apache Airflow (Amazon MWAA)
Business intelligence
Build, discover, and share meaningful insights through modern interactive dashboards, pixel-perfect reports, natural language queries, and embedded analytics.
QuickSight
Search analytics
Securely unlock real-time search, monitoring, and analysis of business and operational data.
OpenSearch Service
Data and AI governance
Catalog, discover, share, and govern data stored across AWS, on premises, and third-party sources.
Amazon DataZone SageMaker Catalog
The Total Economic Impact of AWS Modern Data Strategy
Cost savings and business benefits enabled by Amazon Web Services Modern Data Strategy, as reported by Forrester.Read the report
Stats
Up to 3x
better price-performance delivered by Amazon Redshift compared to other cloud data warehouses.
Up to 3.9x
better performance delivered by Amazon EMR compared to open source Apache Spark.
Trillions
of requests processed per month by OpenSearch Service.
Hundreds
of millions of data integration jobs run on AWS Glue every month.
Get started
Console
Get started with the next generation of SageMaker
Get started
Blog
Read the AWS News Blog on the next generation of SageMaker
Read the blog
AWS analytics and big data reference architecture
Learn more
Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so we can improve the quality of the content on our pages
Yes
No
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.