Asus' dual-mode 32-inch dual-mode gaming monitor is on sale for just $500 — 4K and refresh rates up to 320 Hz for $100 off | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
PC Components
Asus' dual-mode 32-inch dual-mode gaming monitor is on sale for just $500 — 4K and refresh rates up to 320 Hz for $100 off
Deals
By
Hassam Nasir
published
16 September 2025
Or 160Hz at 4K!
Comments (2)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Asus / Future)
Asus is one of the most reliable names when it comes to computer hardware and peripherals. They make excellent gaming monitors, and today's deal is no exception. If you've been looking to get a high refresh rate monitor without sacrificing on sharpness, Asus' XG32UCG is on sale for just $500 on Amazon. This is a 4K 32" dual-mode monitor that has a native refresh rate of 160 Hz, which doubles to 320 Hz when you select the FHD (1080p) mode. It usually retails for more, but you can avail a $100 discount right now and snag a great deal.
Check out 4K gaming monitors on Amazon
Dual-ModeSave $100Asus ROG Strix XG32UCG - 32" 4K HDR Monitor: was $599 now $499 at AmazonEnjoy the best of both worlds with this dual-mode monitor that can refresh your games at up to 320 times a second at 1080p, or 160 times at 4K. With excellent build quality, customary RGB lighting, and solid connectivity, the XG32UCG is a great gaming monitor that's now available at a matching great price.View Deal
The XG32UCG uses a Fast IPS panel that has a 0.3ms (claimed) response time. It also supports G-Sync and AMD's FreeSync. Moreover, it features ELMB-Sync, a rare feature that allows backlight strobing to work with VRR by synchronizing both. That means no weird ghosting or flickering amid fluctuating frame rates. Of course, the hallmark feature here is the dual-mode support, which can be toggled with a simple hotkey button, allowing you to prioritize visual clarity (4K 160Hz) or smoothness (1080p 320Hz) at will.Despite lacking local dimming, there's support for HDR400 here, but don't expect striking contrast or blinding brightness since this is not OLED or Mini-LED. Still, you do get 95% coverage of the DCI-P3 color gamut, along with 130% coverage of sRGB. There's plenty of ports onboard too, including DisplayPort 1.4, HDMI 2.1, USB-C with 15W power delivery, and a headphone jack.Another highlight of this monitor is the DisplayWidget Center app that allows you to control the OSD right inside Windows, eliminating the need to reach for physical buttons. Asus also markets a few AI features, such as "Dynamic Crosshair" and "Dynamic Shadow Boos,t" but even without these, the XG32UCG is a great all-rounder, made even better at its discounted price.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (2)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
2 Comments
Comment from the forums
cyrusfox
I'll be interested once we have the dual mode 5k/1440p, I am not a fan of neither 4k nor 1080p.
Reply
Steve Nord_
I also would like an impossible quality gaming experience because I am fighting a pitched battle between perception and productivity.
Reply
View All 2 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.