Recipes to help you eat sustainably : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Recipes to help you eat sustainably Finding meals that are good for you, your wallet and the environment can be difficult. We've pulled together a few recipes to make sustainable choices even easier.
NPR's Climate Solutions Week
June 9-15: How does climate change affect where and how we live?
The energy used to operate buildings results in more than a fourth of global carbon dioxide pollution. And climate change threatens communities with risks like floods and wildfire. So NPR is dedicating a week to stories about climate change solutions for living and building on a hotter planet.
2025: Rethinking Home
2024: The Future of Food
2023: Search for Solutions
All Climate coverage
Not sure what to make for dinner? Here are recipes to help you eat sustainably
September 15, 202410:00 AM ET
By
The NPR Network
Food being prepared and presented during vegan chef Chloe Coscarelli hosted H&M Home Breakfast in 2017 in New York.
Donald Bowers/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Donald Bowers/Getty Images
Climate change is affecting our food, and our food is affecting the climate. NPR is dedicating a week to stories and conversations about the search for solutions.
Deciding what to make for dinner can be stressful, especially if you're tight on time. Meanwhile, finding meals that are good for you, your wallet and the environment is a whole other puzzle.
But we're here to help. We've pulled together a few recipes to make sustainable choices even easier.
Weeknight chili This America's Test Kitchen recipe gets around the protein deficit by adding red kidney beans. Plus, the folks at Morning Edition have already taste-tested it and share their thoughts.
Sponsor Message
➡️Full Recipe: Weeknight Meaty Chili
Vegetable Pot Pie Striving for a meatless Monday? Or another veggie friendly meal to add to your rotation? The folks at Life Kit connected with Tracye McQuirter, a public health nutritionist and author, who recommends this hearty meal you can store in your freezer for up to three months. ➡️Full Recipe: Vegetable Pot Pie
A new take on 'Fish & Chips' Tamika R. Francis shared this sustainable alternative to traditional fish & chips with her local station WBUR Boston. As Francis explains, while in Saint Lucia she "worked with a cooperative of women fish vendors and learned fish can be consumed from its guts to its skin, and that the consumption of shark meat and other unsuitable seafoods varieties are usually rooted in pre-commercial artisanal practices. With education, more sustainable options can be found. It was there that I learned about dogfish as a sustainable white fish to replace the overconsumption of mako shark and other shark species." The variety is plentiful in the Atlantic, making it a great alternative if you're near the East Coast. ➡️Full Recipe: Island-style fried cape shark
Seasonal eating-friendly roasted root vegetable salad One way to make your eating habits more mindful of climate demands is to eat what is in season (tomatoes in the summer, apples in the fall, greens in the spring.)
Here & Now's resident chef Kathy Gunst shared this recipe for a winter vegetable-heavy meal that can even be made ahead of time to help with the evening crunch.
Sponsor Message
➡️Full Recipe: Roasted Cabbage With Chive-Mustard-Caper Vinaigrette Plus: 3 recipes to help you relish tomato season Plus: Savor the end of summer while using up your seasonal veggies Plus: Fall in love with 3 pumpkin recipes this autumn
Loading...
Climate Solutions Week 2024 repromotion
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor