An AI musician just got a multi-million dollar record deal | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
An AI musician just got a multi-million dollar record deal
The debate around AI-generated music and who profits from it continues.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 12:12 p.m. PT
Reviewed by
Radhika Rajkumar
Malte Mueller/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysAn AI-generated artist got a $3 million record deal.A human artist uses AI platform Suno to generate the persona.Creative industries continue to sue AI companies.An AI-generated musician persona run by a human R&B artist has received a $3 million record deal -- amidst several lawsuits targeting AI companies encroaching on creative industries. Also: Will AI damage human creativity? Most Americans say yesTelisha "Nikki" Jones, who's behind the AI-generated artist Xania Monet, accepted the record deal, which is with Hallwood Media. She combines elements of her real-life songwriting abilities with AI-generated vocals, images, and musical production. Jones uses AI music generation startup Suno -- which is currently being sued by the Recording Industry of America (RIAA) -- to make Monet's music. This scenario presents two sides of one coin: While the RIAA claims Suno stole audio from YouTube videos, bypassing legal protections, others are using the platform to achieve stardom they wouldn't have accessed otherwise. AI music and musiciansAccording to Billboard, Jones writes all of Monet's lyrics and takes "full ownership" of the production credits. However, Murphy admitted to Billboard that Jones is not the "vocal beast" Monet is, though it's unclear how much Suno's platform is responsible for Monet's vocals. Also: AI songs are infiltrating Spotify - here's why it's an issue for fans and creatorsMonet first impacted charts during the week of Sept. 20, 2025, when her song "How Was I Supposed to Know" reached No.1 on R&B Digital Song Sales, Billboard writes. The same song enjoys TikTok popularity, achieving over 80,000 posts and the 39th spot on TikTok's Top 50 Music Chart.On TikTok, Xania Monet's page displays her 322,000 followers, over one million likes, and AI-generated videos of her singing in recording booths, studios, apartments, and sporting arenas. The vibrant colors, overly smoothed skin, oddly cut clips, and generally uncanny valley vibe immediately read as AI-generated to a trained eye. However, there isn't any mention of AI on Monet's page.Some users in the comments wonder when the other dedicated fans will realize the artist is AI-generated, while others explain how, despite being sung by an AI artist, Monet's lyrics deeply touch them, giving them a song that mirrors their life experiences. Others are finding out via the comments that Monet is not a real person. Put simply: Some people care, some people don't, and others have no clue. Also: iOS 26 just solved one of my biggest pain points with Apple MusicAccording to Billboard's interview with Murphy, Monet plans to use more human producers on her upcoming music and is planning her first live performance, though it's unclear how. Hallwood Media has also signed a recording agreement with imoliver, Suno's top-streaming creator.Lawsuits against AI companies The use of AI in creative spaces has been an ongoing debate since the technology's advancements began to encroach on artistic professionals. Visual artists, film directors, writers, and music artists have expressed irritation at artificial intelligence companies training their image, video, language, and voice models on existing works of art. Plenty of lawsuits have been filed -- almost always on the legal basis of copyright infringement.The RIAA's lawsuit against Suno alleges that the platform "stream-ripped" songs from artists on YouTube to train its AI voice models, a process that involves copying existing artists' voices and converting them into downloadable files. The suit represents labels like Warner Music Group, Universal Music Group, and Sony Music Entertainment. Also: AI's not 'reasoning' at all - how this team debunked the industry hypeAccording to the RIAA's lawsuit, stream-ripping illegally uses copyrighted material from artists like Mariah Carey and The Temptations. Perhaps that's why some of Monet's commenters hear a mix of existing artists' voices in her recordings.Elsewhere, the New York Times sued OpenAI for unpermitted use of articles to train large language models, and Disney and Universal sued Midjourney for unpermitted use of their films and characters to train image creation models. Anthropic just settled a lawsuit with three authors. Individual artists have also sued other AI companies for using their work to train models, and the legal opinions are moving more slowly than the technology's development. Most of the defense lies in fair use, while artists and companies claim plagiarism and copyright infringement.Why it matters If AI can land a record deal, who profits?At the very least, Jones is a public musician behind Monet's persona. But an R&B star whose voice, image, and promotional material are AI-generated draws comparisons to a popular AI-generated (and somewhat less transparent) influencer, Lil Miquela.Also: Will AI think like humans? We're not even close - and we're asking the wrong questionLike Xania Monet, Lil Miquela signed a multi-million dollar deal with a talent agency, and there are real people behind her digital persona. The studio behind Lil Miquela and its investors receives the money Lil Miquela is paid from brand partnerships and advertisements. But many questions -- and few answers -- arise from asking the same about Monet.Surely, Jones, her manager, producers, and other studio personnel get a cut of her $3 million record deal, but could Suno or the AI  platform responsible for Monet's digital appearance demand a cut? Technically, Suno and other AI platforms created Monet's voice and likeness, so how, if at all, do they fit into her moneymaking success?To some, the AI-generated artist's record deal indicates innovation in the music industry, giving opportunities to people without connections, wealth, or even conventional beauty. To others, like popular R&B artist Kehlani, it takes away from the real people who dedicate their lives and talents to their art. The artist expressed disdain for AI-generated music and for offering record deals to people who use it.Also: Stability's new AI audio tool creates custom sound for brands - how it worksIt'll be interesting to see how far Monet's career as an AI-generated music artist will go without media appearances and live performances, and how developed the track recordings can be within the technology's confines. The "AI in art" conversation also forces companies to reckon with how much they want to incorporate AI into their business models. Although the total use of AI to write articles, create artwork, or generate short motion pictures is considered taboo, is altogether omitting AI from creative practices an antiquated train of thought? Or, does the debate boil down to who uses AI within their creative practices? Perhaps the issue is that publishers, artists, studios, and record labels should have the option to lend their existing work to AI models, instead of having no say.The legal road to using generative AI in creative practices has already been long, and there are no signs of it shortening anytime soon.Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Google's latest AI safety report explores AI beyond human control
Will AI damage human creativity? Most Americans say yes
AI will transform work more than replace jobs, study finds
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use