4 ways PC builders mess up their case fan configuration
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 ways PC builders mess up their case fan configuration
By
Ty Sherback
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Case airflow is one of the most overlooked parts of a PC build, and depending on which parts you have in your rig, it can make a pretty huge difference. While modern cases come with fans installed in their intended direction, over the course of your build you will inevitably have to consider case airflow, and these four mistakes are some of the most common when it comes to fan configuration.
Incorrect orientation
A common mistake
One of the most drastic ways one can mess up their PC's fan configuration is mistaking the direction your fans are blowing in. Most fans will have an indicator as to which way they're blowing, but if they don't, the easiest way to tell is just by feel. If no assembly errors have occurred, all PC cases will have their fans mounted the right way out of the box, but your CPU cooler is a different story. If you have an air cooler, and you've mounted it yourself, it can be easy to mess up fan direction if you're not paying close attention. Unless you're in a specialized chassis, air should move towards the rear of the case, where the exhaust fan is located, so all fans should point the same direction, blowing intake air over all parts of the finstack. If fans are mounted in opposite directions, it's very possible only one side of the finstack is getting airflow, which can have a really drastic effect on CPU temperatures. The same principle holds true for water cooling in the case of the radiator. Fans configured in a push-pull manner should be pointed in the same direction on both sides of the radiator, otherwise the air can't travel through the fins properly, and cooling efficiency is compromised.
Ignoring case pressure
There is a correct way*
While considering what direction your fans should be pointed in, there's another element to keep in mind: case pressure. This refers to the overall balance of intake fans to exhaust fans. A positive pressure system means that there is more air being brought into the chassis than is leaving it with exhaust. Negative pressure means more air is being exhausted than is being brought in via intake. It's also possible to have a neutral pressure case, meaning there is an equal amount of air being exhausted as is being blown in. There are certainly pros and cons to each approach, but in the vast majority of scenarios, your chassis won't be special; slightly positive case pressure is what you want to go for. In a positive pressure system, components constantly have access to cool air being brought in via a few intake fans, and heat can be exhausted via a single exhaust fan. When a case is configured this way (as long as dust filters are being utilized at intake), you'll have less overall dust settling on the components inside. A negative pressure system does the opposite: air is being sucked in passively, which means more heat can be exhausted quicker, but results in more rapid dust accumulation. There are situations where this is the optimal approach, but for most users, slightly positive is the path to take. Sometimes a case does have a specific layout of fans in mind that might result in a more extreme pressure setup, such as the Fractal Torrent. The full-size Torrent has 5 fans, all directed as intake, because the case was designed to be used in that fashion. If your case isn't a conventional shape, consult the manual for guidance on how to set up the fans.
Number of case fans
Too many can be just a poor as too few
When it comes to fans, less really is more. Unless it's too few, then less isn't more at all. In a standard ATX case, so long as access to air isn't being overly restricted, you can get away with just a couple of fans quite easily. Any less than 2 isn't really sufficient if you plan on putting your system under heavy load, or if the parts inside tend to run on the warmer side. Adding fans to every slot available on the case won't make your thermals any better, though. At some point, you start to see diminishing returns on airflow, and it pays to prioritize a clear path for the air to take, rather than attempting to brute force it.
Not setting fan curves
One of the most important parts of cooling
Once you install your fans in the numbers and direction you wish, you still have one final step to consider. Fans don't just run at one static speed, unless you want them to. PWM case fans are controlled by the headers they're plugged into on the motherboard, which has preloaded hysteresis curves based on the temperature of your CPU. At stock, these curves can be enough to cool your system appropriately, but will often ramp up harshly at the slightest rise in temperature, making for a poor acoustic experience. This is easily remedied by tweaking the curves in your BIOS, which can be done in just a few minutes. Lowering the base speed at idle, and making the ramp up more gradual can have a drastic effect not only on noise levels, but temperature as well. I have my CPU cooler fans plugged directly into the motherboard, while my chassis fans are all controlled via one header, ramping them up and down at the same time. Adjusting curves should be done for your GPU as well, and can be accomplished through software like MSI Afterburner.
Fans are an integral part of your system
Getting your fan configuration right isn’t overly complicated, but it does require a little attention to detail. By ensuring fans are mounted in the correct orientation, balancing case pressure appropriately, choosing the right number of fans, and setting smart fan curves, you’ll create a system that runs cooler, quieter, and lasts longer.
Other Hardware
Fans
PC Build Guide
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Henry
Henry
Henry
#ST835397
Member since 2024-07-22
0
Threads
105
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
I got 2 mini PCs years back -- one (Shuttle XPC) had excellent air flow, and a heat pipe going to... not really a radiator but a large heatsink, rather than slapping it on top of the CPU it was on the inside of the case still but right over a fan hole with a fan strapped to it so it'd get maximum air flow (which it really didn't need but kept the fans very quiet since they barely had to tick over while keeping CPU temps plenty low.)
The other (MSI Mega 180)?
Fans were located so if you put a video card (or any other card really)... and this was like Athlon XP era so we're not talking 100W+ cards here...the card would get no airflow and run nice and hot, it blocked air flow to that side of the case so your drives could get nice and toasty too.
The fans it DID have were pointing toward each other so they just fought each other rather than helping air flow through.
I had a fan on this one die and it actually DROPPED my temps about 15-20C!
2025-09-17 13:39:11
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
SMART data might make you misdiagnose a drive, sanity check these 6 parameters first
3 days ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
2 days ago
I tried Firecracker microVMs for self-hosted services, and it's surprisingly powerful
3 days ago
Tablet vs e-reader vs e-ink notepad: The easy way to choose the right one
Today's best deals
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
6 hours ago
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
17 hours ago
This niche Steam title with 93% positive reviews is free to keep, but only if you're very quick
1 day ago
See More
Trending Now
This SmartDNS server lets you get around geoblocks
9front is a weird Unix-based operating system with an even stranger history
I've been using Raycast on Windows, and I'm finally a believer
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.