Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon — confirms GB10 Superchip and N1/N1X SoCs are identical | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Semiconductors
Nvidia's desktop PC chip holdup purportedly tied to Windows delays
CPUs
Nvidia's new consumer desktop PC chip reportedly delayed well into 2026
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's first desktop PC chip lands this month — Asus leads with Ascend GX10 Grace Blackwell desktop platform
CPUs
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
GPUs
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
GPUs
Nvidia Rubin CPX die shot allegedly reveals ROPs, raster units, and display pipes — forming the potential foundation for the RTX 6090
Semiconductors
Nvidia rumored to ditch its first-gen custom memory form factor for newer version
Semiconductors
Nvidia tipped to be TSMC's first A16 customer, ahead of Apple — Feynman GPUs could make full use of GAA transistors and backside power
GPUs
Asus brings Nvidia’s GB300 Blackwell Ultra 'desktop superchip' to workstations
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's Rubin GPU and Vera CPU taped out
Tech Industry
Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project
CPUs
Intel reportedly prepping supercharged Nova Lake-AX mobile chips for gaming
Tech Industry
Industry news live: the latest news from Nvidia, Intel, and AMD
GPUs
Alibaba’s AI chip goes head-to-head with Nvidia H20 in state-backed benchmark demo
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia responds to reports that H20 is ending production
PC Components
CPUs
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon — confirms GB10 Superchip and N1/N1X SoCs are identical
News
By
Hassam Nasir
published
19 September 2025
N1 and GB10 share identical specs.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Nvidia)
Yesterday, Nvidia and Intel lifted the curtain on a historic collaboration that will see the two chipmakers jointly develop a myriad of CPU and GPU products. While future solutions like the "Intel x86 RTX SoC" were the focus of the announcement, some clarification was also shed on existing projects. Chief among these was Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang saying that the upcoming, long-rumored N1 SoC is essentially the same as the GB10 Superchip that's been out for a while.For some context, Nvidia has never officially unveiled the N1/N1X SoCs, but speculation sparked from CES 2025's announcement of Project DIGITS, where the company revealed its collaboration with MediaTek. From that came the GB10 "Superchip," which is part of the company's DGX Spark lineup, and multiple vendors have already released their iterations of it. The GB10 is aimed squarely at AI workloads, offering supercomputer-like performance at home. It includes a 20-core ARM-based CPU developed in conjunction with MediaTek, along with a powerful Blackwell-based GPU chiplet.
Nvidia DGX Spark and DGX Station (Image credit: Nvidia)The N1 SoC shares the same specs, at least according to previous leaks and rumors, featuring 6,144 CUDA cores for its GPU - same as the desktop RTX 5070 - and a 20-core CPU split across two clusters, built using Nvidia's Grace architecture. Back in July, we saw a Geekbench score surface for the N1X, which allegedly confirmed these specs, giving credence to the fact that GB10 and N1 are intrinsically tied. Of course, just because two products are closely linked to each other doesn't mean they're the same, but all signs pointed toward identical chips being used across the board.
You may like
Nvidia's desktop PC chip holdup purportedly tied to Windows delays
Nvidia's new consumer desktop PC chip reportedly delayed well into 2026
Nvidia's first desktop PC chip lands this month — Asus leads with Ascend GX10 Grace Blackwell desktop platform
That notion has just been legitimized by Jensen Huang, who said the following in a webcast last night, "We also have a new ARM product that's called N1. And that product is - that processor is going to go into the DGX Spark and many other versions of products like that. And so we're super excited about the ARM road map, and this doesn't affect any of that."According to Nvidia's CEO, the silicon powering the GB10 — which itself is what powers DGX Spark — is identical to the N1/N1X SoC. Especially the part about "many other versions" confirms that N1 could simply be a slightly lower-binned version of the full-fat GB10. After all, the latter is meant for client devices like laptops and desktops, whereas the GB10 targets professionals. The distinction matters because N1 represents Nvidia's first serious attempt at taking their in-house CPU cores mainstream (following Tegra).
Nvidia Tegra X1 (Image credit: Nvdia)Unfortunately, that's the only statement pertaining to N1, so we still don't know when it will actually launch. But at least it's out there now that GB10, which should already be in the hands of some, is what Nvidia will eventually release in the future, just with a different target audience in mind. Given Nvidia's new deal with Intel, the interest in developing ARM-based products might collide with x86-based solutions that Intel specializes in. However, that's apparently not an issue, and both roadmaps will continue forward at full force, unaffected by each other.The N1 SoC has already been tested on Windows, which suggests that the chip is getting closer to its Windows-on-ARM destination day by day. The GB10, on the other hand, is not exactly intended for Microsoft's operating system; rather, it is a Linux-based DGX OS that's optimized for local AI, datacenter, and other professional workloads. With that said, since the N1 technically doesn't even exist yet, there is no confirmation for it eventually running on Windows (despite the obvious implication), and Jensen Huang did not comment on it either.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See more CPUs News
TOPICS
arm
Nvidia
See all comments (0)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
Read more
Nvidia's desktop PC chip holdup purportedly tied to Windows delays
Nvidia's new consumer desktop PC chip reportedly delayed well into 2026
Nvidia's first desktop PC chip lands this month — Asus leads with Ascend GX10 Grace Blackwell desktop platform
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
Nvidia Rubin CPX die shot allegedly reveals ROPs, raster units, and display pipes — forming the potential foundation for the RTX 6090
Latest in CPUs
AMD relaunches $40 Athlon 3000G CPU with new packaging and cooler
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
I managed to snag a Core i5 CPU for $10, because someone scammed Amazon out of an i7-14700
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
Nvidia and Intel announce jointly developed 'Intel x86 RTX SOCs' for PCs with Nvidia graphics, also custom Nvidia data center x86 processors
AMD launches Ryzen 9000 PRO series, flagship model tops out at 12 cores
Latest in News
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
SoftBank beams 5G to phones from the sky in successful stratospheric test flight
Amazon sends a literal brick to a customer in lieu of the RTX 5080 they ordered
Radeon RX 9070 gains 25% performance in synthetic benchmarks using RX 9070 XT vBIOS
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.