This free tool might finally tell you why your PC is suddenly slowing down
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This free tool might finally tell you why your PC is suddenly slowing down
By
Chandraveer Mathur
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
I’ve spent an embarrassing amount of my life chasing down the ghosts in my machines. You know, the intermittent stutter, dropped frames, and the File Explorer crashes. The times when your once-snappy PC build feels like it's wading through swampy waters muddied by temporary files and redundant Registry entries. Worse, these slowdowns are so gradual, they often fly under the radar, but the realization comes suddenly. Before your investment feels like an overpriced paperweight, simple diagnostics can help identify and fix issues. There's a load of myths and programs promising instant fixes, but you know better than to trust them. After the basics like culling start-up programs and checking for malware, you can identify the background processes in Task Manager that cause the underlying issues. An unsuspecting tool came to my rescue recently, helping my PC get back to feeling like its former self.
The unlikely hero
LatencyMon wasn't really built for this
You see, there’s an easy, yet completely unorthodox, way to identify exactly what’s causing sluggishness in your PC. The secret lies in how your PC handles audio, and LatencyMon, developed by Resplendence Software, checks if a Windows system is suitable for processing real-time audio. Processing is a constant, high-priority, and brutally time-sensitive process for any OS. A delay in processing audio causes processing latency to creep in because the CPU prioritizes other background processes. LatencyMon's primary job is to measure these delays and point out unreasonable errors. You can use these to hunt down the causes of audio dropouts, clicks, and pops by analyzing kernel timer latencies. In simple terms, it’s a watchdog for your system's real-time performance, using audio as a way to quantify the processing delay. Even if you aren't an audio engineer, you can use LatencyMon. It doesn't even need any audio gear like headphones or earbuds connected to your PC to provide perfectly valid, incredibly useful data. That’s because it’s not really measuring your speakers or the final sound output. It’s measuring just how long the audio server on Windows takes to get a signal, process it, and prepare it for transmission to connected hardware. When something on your system throws a wrench into the works and slows down the process, LatencyMon clearly flags the process or offending driver. The support documentation for the tool clearly explains how LatencyMon monitors Interrupt Service Routines (ISRs) and Deferred Procedure Calls (DPCs). The former are high-priority routines that hardware devices use to get the processor's attention, while the latter are lower-priority tasks that are scheduled to run after an ISR has finished. Running these routines changes the processing priority for your audio service, hamstringing timely processing that shows up as a pop, click, or drop in the stream playback. Similarly, hard page faults occur when your system needs to pull data from the slow hard drive or SSD because it isn't loaded in RAM, and LatencyMon tracks these too. Most of these parameters are simply ignored by the Windows Task Manager.
How is LatencyMon better than the usual suspects?
Simple usage and concrete evidence
To get my computer feeling snappy again, I tried everything in the standard troubleshooter’s playbook — reinstalled apps, updated Windows, checked my drive health — all to no avail. Task Manager looked perfectly happy, with CPU and RAM usage well within normal limits, and I was sure a full Windows reinstall was the only viable remedy. LatencyMon is a 3MB download with the tiniest processing footprint, but I just let it run in the background for a day while I went about my usual tasks. After just three hours, the green "all clear" status changed to a specific error message in red.
"Conclusion: Your system appears to be having trouble handling real-time audio and other tasks. You are likely to experience buffer underruns appearing as drop outs, clicks or pops. One or more DPC routines that belong to a driver running in your system appear to be executing for too long. At least one detected problem appears to be network related. In case you are using a WLAN adapter, try disabling it to get better results. One problem may be related to power management, disable CPU throttling settings in Control Panel and BIOS setup. Check for BIOS updates."
The tool detected massive latency spikes, and the error readout was descriptive enough. The Main tab also logged the longest DPC routine and named the errant process so I could hunt down and fix it. It was periodically taking an eternity to execute a DPC, effectively bringing the rest of the system to a screeching halt for a few milliseconds at a time — too short to register as a full-blown crash, but more than long enough to feel like a jarring stutter.
Fixing the underlying issues
I wouldn't have caught them any other way
LatencyMon was spot-on. I was indeed using a PCIe Wi-Fi and Bluetooth extension card, and switching to the Ethernet port on my motherboard fixed it. A pending BIOS update uprooted other issues, but the biggest culprit was a Microsoft process, APCI.sys. A quick Reddit search revealed that disabling it reduces latency sixfold, and removing it also disables Intel power throttling and, unfortunately, Nvidia Dynamic Boost. I wouldn't be affected by the latter, so I promptly disabled it, ran LatencyMon for another day, and it gave me a clean bill of health. The weird slowdowns vanished, and my PC was back to its buttery-smooth self. LatencyMon measured the time taken to execute critical operations, using them as a barometer for performance, as opposed to resource utilization in Task Manager. Also, it runs in the background, keeping score of the worst offenders, logging problems that occur for a fraction of a second every few minutes, and are impossible to catch from real-time graphs. Lastly, its specificity in identifying the problem was also invaluable.
Delivering well beyond what's advertised
LatencyMon may not be advertised as a tool to fix a slow PC. Its intended audience is audio professionals who need pristine, uninterrupted performance. But for anyone who can put two and two together, it’s one of the most powerful, lightweight, and effective diagnostic system tools out there. It's a simple, non-invasive, tiny download that works out of the box and submits concrete evidence of the needles in your digital haystack.
LatencyMon
See at Resplendence Software
Expand
Collapse
Software and Services
latency
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Kunal
Kunal
Kunal
#MB185667
Member since 2024-06-23
0
Threads
11
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Any equivalent of Latency Mon for Linux?
Recently, I noticed my Cachy Arch getting slower than usual, and apps suddenly freezing.
2025-09-15 13:15:55
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
4 self-hosted services I regret trying to rely on
2 days ago
5 rules I use for sane VLAN design at home (without overcomplicating it)
2 days ago
5 self-hosted services I tried to love, but later uninstalled
3 days ago
This is the one PC component you shouldn't cheap out on (and it's not the CPU)
More from our brands
How to make Task Manager an efficiency weapon for your Windows computer
My Windows 11 Hasn’t Slowed Down Once Because I Follow These 7 Proven Steps
5 basic tricks I use to speed up my Windows 11 PC
I ditched Windows Search for this free app and it’s amazing
I learned the hard way not to ignore these PC noises
This Small Change Gave My Slow Windows PC a Huge Speed Boost
Is It Hardware or Software? How I Diagnose My Computer Issues Easily
Today's best deals
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
47 minutes ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
13 hours ago
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This self hosted app turned my terminal into a full network monitoring dashboard
5 rules of thumb console converts should know about gaming PCs
SMART data might make you misdiagnose a drive, sanity check these 6 parameters first
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.