News in the Technology category
News
Featured
Latest
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
LastPass: Fake password managers infect Mac users with malware
Airport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
American Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNews in the Technology category
News in the Technology category
OpenAI's $4 GPT Go plan may expand to more regions
.OpenAI released $4 GPT Go in August, but it was limited to just India. Now, OpenAI is expanding GPT Go to include new regions.
Mayank Parmar September 18, 2025
08:30 PM
1
ChatGPT Search is now smarter as OpenAI takes on Google Search
OpenAI has rolled out a big update to ChatGPT Search, which is an AI-powered search feature, similar to Google AI Mode.
Mayank Parmar September 18, 2025
07:10 PM
0
New Webinar: Analyzing Real-world ClickFix Attacks
ClickFix, FileFix, fake CAPTCHA — whatever you call it, attacks where users interact with malicious scripts in their web browser are a fast-growing source of security breaches.Register for the webinar on October 23rd to learn how ClickFix-style attacks are bypassing detection controls, and what security teams can do about it.
Push Security Sponsorship
ChatGPT now gives you greater control over GPT-5 Thinking model
OpenAI is finally rolling out a toggle that allows you to decide how hard the GPT-5-thinking model can think. This feature is rolling out to Plus and Pro subscribers.
Mayank Parmar September 18, 2025
06:20 PM
0
OpenAI's new GPT-5 Codex model takes on Claude Code
OpenAI is rolling out the GPT-5 Codex model to all Codex instances, including Terminal, IDE extension, and Codex Web (codex.chatgpt.com).
Mayank Parmar September 15, 2025
08:51 PM
0
Google to make it easier to access AI Mode as default
Google plans to make it easier for users to access AI mode by allowing them to set it as the default, replacing the traditional blue links.
Mayank Parmar September 07, 2025
08:07 PM
1
ChatGPT makes Projects feature free, adds a toggle to split chat
ChatGPT's Projects feature is now feature and second new feature allows you to create new conversations from existing conversations.
Mayank Parmar September 07, 2025
07:33 PM
0
No, Google did not warn 2.5 billion Gmail users to reset passwords
Google has disputed a widely reported story about the company warning all Gmail users to reset their passwords due to a recent data breach that also affected some Workspace accounts.
Sergiu Gatlan September 02, 2025
10:57 AM
2
OpenAI releases big upgrade for ChatGPT Codex for agentic coding
OpenAI has announced a big update for Codex, which is the company's agentic coding tool.
Mayank Parmar August 31, 2025
01:00 PM
0
Anthropic is testing GPT Codex-like Claude Code web app
Anthropic is planning to bring the famous Claude Code to the web, and it might be similar to ChatGPT Codex, but you'll need GitHub to get started.
Mayank Parmar August 31, 2025
11:00 AM
0
ChatGPT can now create flashcards quiz on any topic
If you use ChatGPT to learn new topics, you might want to try its new flashcard-based quiz feature, which can help you evaluate your progress.
Mayank Parmar August 31, 2025
08:30 AM
0
OpenAI is testing "Thinking effort" for ChatGPT
OpenAI is working on a new feature called the Thinking effort picker for ChatGPT.
Mayank Parmar August 31, 2025
07:26 AM
0
Google shares workarounds for auth failures on ChromeOS devices
Google is working to resolve authentication failures preventing users from signing into their Clever and ClassLink accounts on some ChromeOS devices.
Sergiu Gatlan August 28, 2025
02:30 PM
2
OpenAI says GPT-6 is coming and it'll be better than GPT-5 (obviously)
OpenAI's CEO Sam Altman told reporters that GPT-6 is already in the works, and it'll not take as long as GPT-5.
Mayank Parmar August 20, 2025
07:56 PM
8
OpenAI releases $4 ChatGPT plan, but it's not available in the US for now
OpenAI has finally announced the GPT Go subscription, which costs just $4 in the US or INR 399 in India.
Mayank Parmar August 19, 2025
12:28 PM
0
OpenAI releases warmer GPT-5 personality, but only for non thinking model
OpenAI has confirmed it has begun rolling out a new warmer personality for GPT-5, but remember that it won't be as warm as GPT-4o, which is still available for use under legacy models.
Mayank Parmar August 17, 2025
12:20 PM
4
Google is adding "Projects" feature to Gemini to run research tasks
Google's Gemini is now testing a new feature called "Projects." This will be similar to OpenAI's Project Feature for ChatGPT.
Mayank Parmar August 17, 2025
10:38 AM
0
Anthropic: Claude can now end conversations to prevent harmful uses
OpenAI rival Anthropic says Claude has been updated with a rare new feature that allows the AI model to end conversations when it feels it poses harm or is being abused.
Mayank Parmar August 17, 2025
10:24 AM
1
Leak: ChatGPT cheaper plan costs $4 or £3.50, might release everywhere
OpenAI is working on a cheaper plan called ChatGPT Go, and we previously thought it would be just limited to a few regions like India, but that may not be the case.
Mayank Parmar August 16, 2025
04:44 PM
1
OpenAI is improving ChatGPT voice mode
ChatGPT's Voice mode is already pretty good, but OpenAI is working on a new feature that will allow you to control how Voice mode actually works.
Mayank Parmar August 16, 2025
04:15 PM
0
Google Gemini's Deep Research is finally coming to API
Google Gemini's one of the most powerful features is Deep Research, but up until now, it has been strictly limited to the Gemini interface. This could change soon.
Mayank Parmar August 13, 2025
09:01 PM
0
1 2 3 4 5
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
CISA exposes malware kits deployed in Ivanti EPMM attacks
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now