The Atlantic hurricane season has been quiet — but we’re not in the clear | PBS News
Full Episode
Friday, Sep 19
Close Menu
PBS NewsHour
Episodes
Podcasts
Newsletters
The Latest
Politics
Brooks and Capehart
Politics Monday
Supreme Court
Arts
CANVAS
Poetry
Now Read This
Nation
Supreme Court
Race Matters
Essays
Brief But Spectacular
World
Agents for Change
Economy
Making Sen$e
Paul Solman
Science
The Leading Edge
ScienceScope
Basic Research
Innovation and Invention
Health
Long-Term Care
Education
Teachers' Lounge
Student Reporting Labs
For Teachers
Newshour Classroom
About
Feedback
Funders
Support
Jobs
Close Menu
Clarity when it matters most
With federal funding gone, your monthly support powers PBS News
Donate now
Close Popup
I've already supported
PBS News
Menu
Notifications
Get news alerts from PBS News
Turn on desktop notifications?
Yes
Not now
Full Episodes
Podcasts
Newsletters
Live
By —
Dánica Coto, Associated Press
Dánica Coto, Associated Press
Leave your feedback
Share
Copy URL
https://www.pbs.org/newshour/science/the-atlantic-hurricane-season-has-been-quiet-but-were-not-in-the-clear
Email
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Pinterest
Tumblr
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
The Atlantic hurricane season has been quiet — but we’re not in the clear
Science
Sep 16, 2025 2:55 PM EDT
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — Not a single named storm has formed in the Atlantic Ocean in nearly three weeks, even though it’s the peak of hurricane season.
“Where the heck are the Atlantic #hurricanes?” Philip Klotzbach, a meteorologist at Colorado State University, wrote recently on X.
Many are wondering the same thing.
Tropical Storm Fernand was the last named storm to form this season. It was short-lived, forming on Aug. 23 and dissipating on Aug. 28 while remaining over open water.
This is only the second time that no named storms have formed during the peak of the Atlantic hurricane season since modern record-keeping began in 1950, according to Ernesto Rodríguez, meteorologist in charge of the National Weather Service forecast office in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
“Usually, conditions during this period are prime,” he said.
The quietest peak running from Aug. 29 to Sept. 15 was recorded in 1992, after Hurricane Andrew devastated Florida.
Why it’s so quiet
Three factors are to blame, or cheer.
One, a strong vertical wind shear, which refers to a change in wind speed or direction with altitude. It has increased thanks to a cyclonic circulation in the mid-upper troposphere, which is the lowest region of the Earth’s atmosphere.
Two, persistent dry and stable air across the tropical Atlantic.
And three, a drop in the amount of rainfall in West Africa, where tropical waves form during the hurricane season.
“This is pretty positive, especially for us in Puerto Rico,” Rodríguez said.
The U.S. territory is still rebuilding from Hurricane Maria, which hit the island as a powerful Category 4 storm on Sept. 20, 2017.
The lack of storms prompted experts at Colorado State University to publish an explanatory report earlier this month.
“There has been considerable discussion amongst meteorologists, the media and the general public about the recent quiet period for Atlantic hurricane activity,” the report stated, which called it “quite remarkable.”
WATCH: 20 years later, a look at the legacy of Hurricane Katrina
We’re not in the clear
Forecasters say we could still see a busy season in the second half of September and the first part of October.
A cluster of storms currently located hundreds of miles east of the Caribbean is forecast to become a named storm in upcoming days, although it’s expected to turn away from the region and remain over open water, possibly as a powerful hurricane.
Another cluster of storms is swirling behind it, but so far, it only has a 20% chance of formation.
“From Sept. 15 to Oct. 15, conditions will be pretty prime,” Rodríguez said.
He noted that ocean temperatures remain warm, which provides fuel to storms.
What history says
Up to 80% of hurricane activity in the Atlantic occurs in August and September, but this year has seen only six named storms.
“One of the issues plaguing the Atlantic this hurricane season has been insufficient instability,” according to the report by Colorado State University.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration had predicted an above-normal season with 13 to 18 named storms. Of those, five to nine were forecast to become hurricanes, including two to five major hurricanes, which pack winds of 111 mph or greater.
Erin strengthened into this year’s first Atlantic hurricane in August, reaching Category 5 status as it bypassed land. No other hurricanes have formed since then.
A typical hurricane season in the Atlantic, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, will yield 14 named storms, of which seven strengthen into hurricanes and three become major hurricanes, according to NOAA.
“The conga line of tropical waves exiting Africa that hits its peak by late August and September — is a little late to the party this season,” wrote hurricane specialist and storm surge expert Michael Lowry in his most recent report.
We're not going anywhere.
Stand up for truly independent, trusted news that you can count on!
Donate now
Left:
A satellite image shows Hurricane Erin, the first hurricane of the 2025 Atlantic season, in this screengrab taken from a handout video, over the Atlantic Ocean, August 20, 2025. CSU/CIRA & NOAA/Handout via REUTERS
Related
Hurricane Kiko heads toward Hawaii as Lorena remnants linger near western Mexico
By Associated Press
Hurricane Lorena weakens as risk of flash floods and mudslides for Mexico’s west coast remain
By Associated Press
Katrina victims reflect on how the storm changed their lives
By Mary Fecteau
20 years on, New Orleans remembers Hurricane Katrina with memorials and brass band parade
By Jack Brook, Associated Press
20 years later, a look at Katrina’s lasting impact and concerns over future storms
By Lisa Desjardins, Sarah Clune Hartman, Layla Quran, Cali Steffenhagen
New documentary shares the stories of children who lived through Hurricane Katrina
By Winston Wilde, Claire Mufson
16 years after Hurricane Katrina, Ida takes ‘significant’ toll on Louisiana
Katrina Adams’ journey from the tennis court to the C-suite
By Christopher Booker
Go Deeper
2025 hurricane season
atlantic ocean
basic research
hurricanes
science
tropical weather
weather
By —
Dánica Coto, Associated Press
Dánica Coto, Associated Press
Support Provided By:
Learn more
Educate your inbox
Subscribe to Here’s the Deal, our politics
newsletter for analysis you won’t find anywhere else.
Enter your email address
Subscribe
Form error message goes here.
Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm.
Full Episode
Friday, Sep 19
PBS News
© 1996 - 2025 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved.
PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
Sections
The Latest
Politics
Arts
Nation
World
Economy
Science
Health
Education
About
About Us
TV Schedule
Press
Feedback
Funders
Support
Newsletters
Podcasts
Jobs
Privacy
Terms of Use
Stay Connected
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
X
TikTok
Threads
RSS
Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins
Enter your email address
Subscribe
Form error message goes here.
Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm.
Support our journalism
Support for News Hour Provided By