Andy Clarke on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Andy Clarke
Often referred to as one of the pioneers of web design, Andy Clarke has been instrumental in pushing the boundaries of web design and is known for his creative and visually stunning designs. His work has inspired countless designers to explore the full potential of product and website design.
Andy’s written several industry-leading books, including Transcending CSS, Hardboiled Web Design, and Art Direction for the Web. He’s also worked with businesses of all sizes and industries to achieve their goals through design.
Visit Andy’s studio, Stuff & Nonsense, and check out his limited edition Premium templates for Squarespace.
stuffandnonsense.co.uk
Direct link to the article Getting Creative With Images in Long-Form Content
images UI/IX Design
Getting Creative With Images in Long-Form Content
Images in long-form content can (and often should) do more than illustrate. They help set the pace, influence how readers feel, and add character that words alone can’t always convey.
Aug 25, 2025
Direct link to the article Getting Creative With Quotes
inspiration typography
Getting Creative With Quotes
How do you design block quotes and pull quotes to reflect a brand’s visual identity and help tell its story? Here’s how I do it by styling the HTML blockquote element using borders, decorative quote marks, custom shapes, and a few unexpected properties.
Aug 11, 2025
Direct link to the article Getting Creative With Versal Letters
initial-letter inspiration typography
Getting Creative With Versal Letters
A versal letters is a typographic flourish found in illuminated manuscripts and traditional book design, where it adds visual interest and helps guide a reader’s eye to where they should begin.
Jul 18, 2025
Direct link to the article Getting Creative With HTML Dialog
dialog
Getting Creative With HTML Dialog
So, how can you take dialogue box design beyond the generic look of frameworks and templates? How can you style them to reflect a brand’s visual identity and help to tell its stories? Here’s how I do it in CSS using ::backdrop, backdrop-filter, and animations.
Jun 3, 2025
Direct link to the article Revisiting Image Maps
images
Revisiting Image Maps
Let’s run through a quick refresher. Image maps date all the way back to HTML 3.2, where, first, server-side maps and then client-side maps defined clickable regions over an image using map and area elements.
Apr 30, 2025
Direct link to the article Revisiting CSS border-image
border
Revisiting CSS border-image
I’ve used border-image regularly. Yet, it remains one of the most underused CSS tools, and I can’t, for the life of me, figure out why. Is it possible that people steer clear of border-image because its syntax is awkward and unintuitive? Perhaps it’s because most explanations don’t solve the type of creative implementation problems that most people need to solve. Most likely, it’s both.
Mar 21, 2025
Direct link to the article Revisiting CSS Multi-Column Layout
columns layout
Revisiting CSS Multi-Column Layout
After 20 years since Andy Clarke first published his book about Multi-Column Layout in CSS, he's back to encourage a fresh look at CSS columns for enhanced readability and design flexibility.
Jan 27, 2025
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top