Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
My Account
Login
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
17 September 2025
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
Merck and AstraZeneca say the United Kingdom is not spending enough on medicines, but experts say it’s a symptom of underlying weaknesses in the global pharmaceutical sector.
By
David Adam0
David Adam
David Adam is a writer in Hertford, near London.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Merck and AstraZeneca have paused research and development investments in the United Kingdom.Credit: Matthew Horwood/GettyA series of statements and funding cuts suggest that the UK pharmaceutical industry and research sector is losing its competitive edge.First, Merck said on 10 September that it was scrapping a plan to develop a £1-billion (US$1.4-billion) research facility in London and cancelling ongoing projects at the nearby Francis Crick Institute. Two days later, it emerged that AstraZeneca was rethinking a £200-million expansion of its research site in Cambridge — a decision that follows a similar U-turn from the company earlier this year on a promised £450-million expansion to its vaccine manufacturing facility in Liverpool. And statements from the US firm Lilly and French company Sanofi have raised doubts about their continued investment in the United Kingdom, too.The pharmaceutical giants have blamed a reduction in government investment in the sector on their decisions to de-invest in pharmaceutical research and development (R&D). At an emergency parliamentary committee in the Houses of Parliament on 16 September, Ben Lucas, managing director of MSD (Merck) UK and Ireland said that “the UK commercial operating environment does need to be addressed”, adding that the UK government should “reflect on how we can avoid these things moving forward”.But the real “crunch issue” is the amount of money the country’s National Health Service (NHS) spends on medicines, according to the UK minister for science, research and innovation, Patrick Vallance, who has also been head of R&D at the drug company GlaxoSmithKline and is a former government chief scientific adviser.Vallance told the committee that Britain would need to spend billions of pounds more on new drugs to convince the pharmaceutical industry to invest in its life-science sector. Britain’s spending on pharmaceuticals has declined from 15% a decade ago to 9% today — a decline that would cost about £12 billion more each year to reverse.“I think industry has been clear that the ongoing investment in the UK is dependent on having a commercial environment which is conducive to them doing business,” said Vallance.UK pharma exodus?The recent announcements come as talks between the UK government and the pharmaceutical industry remain deadlocked over drug-price reform. Under the current scheme, pharma companies agree to repay a proportion of their revenues from drug sales to the NHS. But the industry was unhappy when the government increased the rebate last year from 15% to 24%.Although many attending the committee meeting drew explicit links between the negotiations and the reversal of planned industry investment by pharmaceutical companies, independent specialists are more sceptical, saying it’s really about underlying weaknesses in the global pharmaceutical sector.Richard Sullivan, a cancer-policy researcher at King’s College London, says that the companies are using arguments over drug pricing as an excuse for cuts they needed to make anyway. “This is nothing to do with domestic policy towards our pharmaceutical industry,” he says. “This is smoke and mirrors.”The ‘most favoured nation’ policy of US President Donald Trump, which aims to reduce the high prices the United States pays for medicines relative to other countries, combined with the rise in high-quality cheaper drugs from China and a reduction in health financing in emerging markets have left Merck and other pharmaceutical companies struggling with an obsolete business model and looking to save money, he says.“They don’t want to say they are withdrawing because the competition in China’s too fierce and because they made an upfront strategic mistake of putting it here in the first place,” he adds.What does it mean for other countries?Alexander Schuhmacher, a pharma R&D researcher at Technical University Ingolstadt in Germany says it’s not clear yet how the situation in the United Kingdom might influence or apply to other countries.“Pharma companies operate under long research and production life cycles,” he points out. That means their strategic decisions are typically the result of long-term planning, not short-term reactions to political changes or even to major geopolitical shifts, he says.“There’s a productivity challenge,” he says, “so companies need to reduce costs and to focus more on the US market”, which offers relatively higher profits, he says. “But this is nothing that is really brand new. We’ve seen this for years.”Pharmaceutical companies have indicated that other countries could benefit from their de-investment in UK drug research. Tom Keith-Roach, president of AstraZeneca UK, said it was inevitable that the company’s investment in R&D would naturally flow “into countries who are seen to value innovation”.That’s happened already, at the expense of the United Kingdom, says Richard Torbett, chief executive of the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry. “We’re still losing out to the US. We’re losing out to Belgium, Ireland, Singapore, Germany,” he said. “We’ve got lots of examples of decisions that have been in the balance, and those are the sorts of countries that we’ve lost out to.”James Barlow, a health-care-policy researcher at Imperial College London, says that there are things the United Kingdom could do to appeal more to industry. “We need to continue to make improvements to the UK’s clinical-trial capacity, especially through enhancements to the data infrastructure,” he says. “Other countries make it easier to do trials.”“There are real questions about our ability to remain competitive in the longer term,” he adds. “China and some other countries are catching up fast.”
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03001-y
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Pharmaceutical futures: Made in China?
AI could threaten pharmaceutical patents
Subjects
Policy
Industry
Government
Latest on:
Policy
Industry
Government
What research might be lost after the NIH’s cuts? Nature trained a bot to find out
Nature Index 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
China’s private higher-education sector is at a turning point
Correspondence 23 SEP 25
The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights
Career Feature 23 SEP 25
Nerdy and easy to pronounce: why we chose Apheros as the name for our technology start-up firm
Career Feature 23 SEP 25
What research might be lost after the NIH’s cuts? Nature trained a bot to find out
Nature Index 24 SEP 25
Machine learning reveals potential consequences of cuts to US research
Editorial 24 SEP 25
Trump’s $100K visa fee for foreign talent: how will it affect researchers?
News 24 SEP 25
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Pharmaceutical futures: Made in China?
AI could threaten pharmaceutical patents
Subjects
Policy
Industry
Government
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited