The IT job market keeps shrinking, but not for everyone - or everywhere | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Education
Home
Education
Professional Development
The IT job market keeps shrinking, but not for everyone - or everywhere
Along with AI, data, and cybersecurity skills, IT pros need to elevate their roles, resumes, and resilience.
Written by
Joe McKendrick, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 12, 2025 at 5:10 a.m. PT
TEK IMAGE/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysTech job volume has been shrinking over the past three years.Large tech vendors are shedding jobs, but demand is high among small businesses.Skills with a solid future: AI, creativity, and business acumen.The dour news keeps coming. A new analysis of US Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data shows the IT job market is shrinking. However, one needs to look beyond the traditional IT field to see where opportunities are blossoming. First, let's get the bad news out of the way: The current IT unemployment rate is 4.5%, according to a recent report from Janco, which estimates there are at least 118,000 unemployed IT professionals at this time. In the last 24 months, the IT job market has shrunk by over 179,000 jobs, the consultancy said. The IT job market shrank by 131,200 in the last 13 months and by over 179,000 in the last 24 months. Also, this is the third year in a row of shrinkage. Also: Jobs for young developers are dwindling, thanks to AIAccording to the latest revised BLS data, the IT job market shrank by 9,600 jobs year to date. At the same time, the BLS reports there are more than 200,000 open IT positions.   Add to this dour analysis reports of mass layoffs at the top of the tech chain -- as announced by Salesforce, Microsoft, and Oracle -- and one may be forgiven for assuming the worst.
Second, there's a caveat: While the report's authors add a note of caution -- as BLS regularly adjusts its jobs data upward or downward following an initial data release -- they indicate they see the shrinkage as "a long-term trend." In addition, cuts and freezes among federal agencies have put many IT contracts on hold.There is a bright sideNow, let's discuss some silver linings. M. Victor Janulaitis, CEO of Janco and the report's author, sounded somewhat optimistic, noting an uptick in retail sales in the macro economy and subdued inflation at about 2% to 3%. He predicted that IT opportunities would expand in the last two quarters of 2025."Our data shows the positions available will be in SMBs versus larger enterprises, as they prepare for the implementation of the approved federal budget and tariffs," Janulaitis noted. "Perhaps that is a good omen for long-term IT job market growth. Historically, over 50% of all IT jobs have been created by small to medium businesses."Also: Your next job interviewer could be an AI agent - here's why that's a good thingThe Janco report added that most of these unfilled IT positions are associated with artificial intelligence (AI), large language models, blockchain, and omni-commerce. "AI is showing its impact in IT as many customer service and monitoring positions are automated.
CIOs we interviewed have expressed a need to hire new staff to meet AI initiatives and the focus on productivity," Janulaitis said. Within the AI space, Python programming skills and AWS management are in greatest demand, an earlier McKinsey analysis showed. While there is also concern about the future of software engineering, these roles are being redefined upward within organizations.Brian Peret, director at CodeBoxx, said AI is the big factor in IT employment disruptions. "Almost every way to display text, sound, and image -- almost every way to gather information from users and sources -- has already been translated into code. AI tools are increasingly generating large amounts of code of higher quality using a fraction of the resources."   Also: Is AI a job killer or creator? There's a third option: Startup rocket fuelAcross the industry, observers see growing opportunities in key areas such as AI. Demand for technology skills is uneven at this point. "Generalist software roles are down, but demand for applied AI and data pipeline engineering is certainly rising," said Wyatt Mayham, lead AI consultant at Northwest AI Consulting. "Companies are cutting back on dev roles that don't directly tie to revenue or cost savings automation. That's what we see in our consulting practice clients, which span from healthcare to aerospace."Demand is changing, not droppingWe're hearing a lot about IT job losses, "but they don't tell the whole story," said Daniel Gorlovetsky, CEO at TLVTech. "Yes, some traditional software roles have slowed down, especially in over-saturated segments like junior full-stack devs or bootcamp grads. But that's not because demand for tech is dropping -- it's because the nature of that demand is changing."At Gorlovetsky's company, for example, "we're hiring, but we're looking for people who can solve problems, not just write code," he related. "AI, data engineering, platform security, real-time infrastructure -- those areas are still hot. What's cooled off are generalist dev roles where the work can now be automated or handled by leaner teams with better tooling."Also: You've heard about AI killing jobs, but here are 15 news ones AI could createIf anything, there is more selectivity at the entry level of technology careers, Mayham said. "Before, junior engineers could still land roles and grow. The bar for IT hires is higher, and companies expect AI literacy and cross-functional skills out of the gate."  Seeing traditional IT roles evolve "isn't really a surprise, but given the hype about AI and other automation elements it certainly can feel cataclysmic," said Zbyněk Sopuch, CTO of Safetica, "The reality is that IT pros -- and especially entry-level ones -- need to rethink how to apply their skills and experience; and it is not a dead end for skilled professionals."Sopuch observed that most of the growing opportunities today are in cybersecurity, compliance, and data governance. "Organizations are under constant regulatory and risk pressures. That means those with technical skills can transition to roles where they help companies protect sensitive information and meet new compliance mandates -- making them more valuable given the nature of what's at stake."  Elevating roles, resumes, and resilience Along with AI, data, and cybersecurity skills, IT professionals can elevate their roles, resumes, and resilience in the following ways:Creativity and imagination: Those seeking to advance in the technology field need to have a range of soft skills, including creativity and business acumen. "There are two main and contrasting buckets of skills I'm seeing employers value these days -- advanced tech skills and soft skills," said Peret. "On the tech side of things, employers want technologists who can leverage the most recent, powerful tools -- often AI-based -- to add value to teams. On the soft-skills side, the ability to communicate, collaborate, and present professionally has become a distinguishing skill set." Also: AI developers should be philosophers as much as technologistsIn addition, with artificial general intelligence (AGI) on the horizon, the need for greater imagination will grow, said Julie Ferris-Tillman, vice president at Interdependence. "Professionals -- whether in marketing and PR or investments or software development -- will be well-served by leaning into creativity. If we can't dream big enough to build solutions beyond today's reach, we won't capitalize on what AGI can deliver. Future tech innovation and practice requires extraordinary thinking and belief now more than ever. If tech professionals are looking to boost skills, they might explore writing, art, music, and more to flex creative muscles and sharpen the skills that drive ideation." Business acumen: "Focus on your business acumen -- your ability to see how tasks impact the bottom line," said Peret. "Focus on your personal development, specifically communication and professionalism. The modern workplace requires top-notch professionals able to execute diverse and deep workloads using the most impactful tools. Be ready." Tech hiring has always had cycles, said Gorlovetsky. "But what's different now is the pace of change. AI isn't just disrupting how we work -- it's reshaping what we need from a team. It's not enough to know a language. You need to understand systems, outcomes, and often how tech fits into a business model."Team playing: "I think an underrated skill that most developers just don't have is the logic and business mindset behind why they are doing what they are doing," said Mayham. "Are you shipping something that moves a business metric? Learning how your product and revenue teams think will make you stand out." Also: Worried AI will take your job? OpenAI's new platform could help get you oneLearn how to "think across disciplines," Gorlovetsky said. "Pair your tech skills with communication, product thinking, or even design. The engineers who will thrive in this market are the ones who can build and translate, who understand both the system and the customer.""And if you're early in your career, AI is huge. But don't just chase hype. Get really good at something useful, then layer AI on top."Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use