Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Semiconductors
Nvidia tipped to be TSMC's first A16 customer, ahead of Apple — Feynman GPUs could make full use of GAA transistors and backside power
Semiconductors
Intel might axe the 18A process node for foundry customers, essentially leaving TSMC with no rival
Semiconductors
TSMC's quarterly sales hit a record $30 billion
Semiconductors
TSMC reportedly cuts Chinese chipmaking tools from 2nm fabs as suppliers face scrutiny due to emerging new US restrictions
Tech Industry
TSMC’s foundry dominance hits new heights as global revenues smash records
Semiconductors
AI boom drives explosive demand for leading-edge process nodes
Semiconductors
Intel will cancel 14A and following nodes if it can't win a major external customer
Semiconductors
TSMC increases Arizona internships to feed its Phoenix fabs
Semiconductors
Japanese chipmaker Rapidus begins test production of 2nm circuits — company commits to single-wafer processing ahead of 2027 mass production target
Semiconductors
Intel CFO confirms that 14A will be more expensive to use than 18A
Semiconductors
TSMC employees reportedly stole 2nm trade secrets to share with Rapidus
Semiconductors
TSMC’s 2nm leak is considered ‘not critical’
Semiconductors
Google switches from Samsung to TSMC — Pixel 10 and Tensor G5 chip use TSMC's N3P process
Tech Industry
Intel is not a top 10 chipmaker anymore, according to new CEO Lip-Bu Tan
Semiconductors
Ex-Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger gives Japan's new leading-edge chipmaker advice, says Rapidus needs unique tech to compete with TSMC
Tech Industry
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
News
By
Anton Shilov
published
22 September 2025
An unprecedented number.
Comments (3)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: TSMC)
TSMC has landed orders from approximately 15 customers to make chips on its N2 (2nm-class) manufacturing process, according to a claim made by a high-ranking executive from KLA, a major wafer fab equipment (WFE) maker. The majority of clients to use TSMC's 2nm-class production node are developers of processors for high-performance computing (HPC) applications, which, in TSMC's definition, spans from PCs to game consoles and data centers."The N2 node has 15 or so customers doing designs," said Ahmad Khan, President of KLA's combined product and customer organization, Semiconductor Products and Customers, at the Goldman Sachs Communacopia + Technology Conference 2025. "At N2, you have got 10-ish high-performance compute customers doing designs. […] We think the N2 node will probably be the largest over the first three years or so, node from an overall design point of view."
(Image credit: TSMC)In recent years, TSMC has emphasized that its N2 (2nm-class) fabrication technology is more popular than its N3 (3nm-class) and N5 (5nm-class) manufacturing processes at the same stage of development. The development has resulted in a considerably higher number of new tape-outs (NTOs) during the first and second years of availability. However, TSMC has never disclosed the actual number of customers. Instead, the company traditionally focuses on the relative number of designs.
You may like
Nvidia tipped to be TSMC's first A16 customer, ahead of Apple — Feynman GPUs could make full use of GAA transistors and backside power
Intel might axe the 18A process node for foundry customers, essentially leaving TSMC with no rival
TSMC's quarterly sales hit a record $30 billion
While the President of KLA's Semiconductor Products and Customers division only mentions N2, he likely refers to the whole family of N2-branded fabrication technologies — including N2, N2P, and N2X manufacturing processes — which will ramp over the next few years.
(Image credit: TSMC)Traditionally, Apple has been the earliest adopter of TSMC's leading-edge fabrication technologies, staying ahead of the industry by at least a year. It adopted N5 two years before AMD and Nvidia, and began utilizing N3B over a year before Intel. This is not the case with N2, as multiple companies have either confirmed their N2 tape-outs already or are rumored to have reached this milestone.Apple will almost certainly remain TSMC's alpha customer for N2 with its next-generation A19/A19 Pro application processors for smartphones and tablets, its 2026 M-series SoCs for Macs, and upcoming modem chips. However, AMD and MediaTek have formally confirmed plans to ramp up their N2-based server and client processors in 2026. On the other hand, Intel disclosed that some of its codenamed Nova Lake processors, due to be released next year, will rely on a foundry node, which is rumored to be N2. Broadcom and Qualcomm will almost certainly jump on the N2 bandwagon rather sooner than later, as advantages offered by the technology — enabled by gate-all-around (GAA) transistors, revamped power delivery, and NanoFlex — both for data center and mobile processors are too appealing to ignore.The increased number of clients and designs for the N2 fabrication process in the first year are two reasons why TSMC is going to ramp up three N2-capable fabs over the next several quarters in Taiwan and is speeding up building N2-capable Fab 21 module 3 in Arizona.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.We have reached out to TSMC to confirm the number of N2 clients, but the company has yet to respond.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.
TOPICS
TSMC
See all comments (3)
Anton ShilovSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterAnton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom’s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends.
Read more
Nvidia tipped to be TSMC's first A16 customer, ahead of Apple — Feynman GPUs could make full use of GAA transistors and backside power
Intel might axe the 18A process node for foundry customers, essentially leaving TSMC with no rival
TSMC's quarterly sales hit a record $30 billion
TSMC reportedly cuts Chinese chipmaking tools from 2nm fabs as suppliers face scrutiny due to emerging new US restrictions
TSMC’s foundry dominance hits new heights as global revenues smash records
AI boom drives explosive demand for leading-edge process nodes
Latest in Tech Industry
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production — could use TSMC's Arizona fab to avoid tariff fallout
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Samsung earns Nvidia's certification for its HBM3 memory
Twitch streamer raising money for cancer treatment has funds stolen by malware-ridden Steam game
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate
Latest in News
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
FSR 4 modded to run on RDNA 2 GPUs improves visuals by "leaps and bounds" but carries 10-20% less FPS
Japanese city implements two-hour daily recreational smartphone usage limit
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
3 Comments
Comment from the forums
S58_is_the_goat
Intel: why don't you guys want to use our 14a tech? Oh right, we cancelled it...
Reply
Amdlova
S58_is_the_goat said:Intel: why don't you guys want to use our 14a tech? Oh right, we cancelled it...They use TSMC to limit AMD participation on it.
Reply
nogaard777
S58_is_the_goat said:Intel: why don't you guys want to use our 14a tech? Oh right, we cancelled it...They haven't cancelled it dumba$$. Just no one wants to pay for it.....yet. Intel IS ahead of TSMC but these advanced nodes are getting crazy expensive to develop. It's simply cheaper to go with TSMC 2nm for the time being.
Advanced high NA EUV isn't cheap and it's not financially viable to ramp it up if there's not enough customers for it. That's exactly why TSMC hasn't gone that way yet. They don't care about being ahead, they only care about profits.
Pat Gelsinger put Intel in the lead in advancement, but unfortunately so far ahead that it's too expensive to be financially viable..... For now. But once TSMC's 2nm and Intel's 18a is played out Intel has 14a ready. TSMC doesn't.
Reply
View All 3 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.