shapes Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
shapes
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
12 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article What Can We Actually Do With corner-shape?
css properties shapes
What Can We Actually Do With corner-shape?
When I first started messing around with code, rounded corners required five background images or an image sprite likely created in Photoshop, so when border-radius came onto the scene, I remember everybody thinking that it was the best thing ever. …
Daniel Schwarz
on
Sep 12, 2025
Direct link to the article SVG to CSS Shape Converter
CSS functions resource shapes
SVG to CSS Shape Converter
Shape master Temani Afif has what might be the largest collection of CSS shapes on the planet with all the tools to generate them on the fly. There’s a mix of clever techniques he’s typically used to make those shapes, …
Geoff Graham
on
May 21, 2025
Direct link to the article Trigonometry in CSS and JavaScript: Beyond Triangles
shapes
Trigonometry in CSS and JavaScript: Beyond Triangles
Web design is such a rectangle-based design medium that literally any deviation from it feels fresh. Michelle Barker gets into using math in various ways to programmatically draw lines, shapes, and animations that end up looking both beautiful and have …
Chris Coyier
on
Jul 5, 2021
Direct link to the article How to Add a Double Border to SVG Shapes
border shapes SVG
How to Add a Double Border to SVG Shapes
Let’s say someone asks you to add a double border to some random geometric SVG shapes. For some reason, you can’t use any graphic editor — they need to be generated at runtime — so you have to solve it …
Mariana Beldi
on
Apr 21, 2021
Direct link to the article People Talkin’ Shapes
clip-path shape-outside shapes
People Talkin’ Shapes
Codrops has a very nice article on CSS Shapes from Tania Rascia. You might know shape-outside is for redefining the area by which text is floated around that element, allowing for some interesting design opportunities. But there are a couple …
Chris Coyier
on
Dec 21, 2018
Direct link to the article Rocking California’s “I Voted” Sticker in CSS for Election Day 2018
shapes voting
Rocking California’s “I Voted” Sticker in CSS for Election Day 2018
Oh hey, so tomorrow (tomorrow!) is Election Day here in the United States. We're not in the business of making political endorsements or anything like that at CSS-Tricks, though we do endorse that everyone exercise their right to vote.
I did exactly that two years ago and posted a CSS rendition of the "I Voted" sticker that came with my California mail-in ballot.
Fast forward to today, and I received a new sticker in the ballot sporting a fresh design.
I have a little time, so I'm going to try to re-create this sticker in CSS and walk through my thought process as I do it. Feel free to follow along if you'd like!
Geoff Graham
on
Nov 7, 2018
Direct link to the article The Shapes of CSS
shapes
The Shapes of CSS
CSS is capable of making all sorts of shapes. Squares and rectangles are easy, as they are the natural shapes of the web. Add a width and height and you have the exact size rectangle you need. Add border-radius and …
Chris Coyier
on
Apr 22, 2024
Direct link to the article CSS Shape Editors
shape-outside shapes
CSS Shape Editors
Firefox 62 is shipping out of beta on September 5th. The big notable thing for CSS developers is that it will now support the shape-outside property with polygon(), circle(), and ellipse(), joining Chrome and Safari.…
Chris Coyier
on
Aug 30, 2018
Direct link to the article #157: A Tale of Four Properties
shapes
#157: A Tale of Four Properties
This is a talk I’ve given at a couple of conferences recently. It’s about four different properties in CSS:
shape-outside
offset-path
clip-path
d
…
Chris Coyier
on
Dec 25, 2017
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top