Indian tribal governments | Internal Revenue Service
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
()
or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
English
Español中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
Search
Sign in
Menu
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Main navigation
File
Overview
INFORMATION FOR…
Individuals
Business and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International filers
Retirement
Governments and tax-exempt bonds
Indian Tribal Governments
FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS
How to file
When to file
Where to file
Update your information
POPULAR
Tax record (transcript)
Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)
Amend return
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN)
File your taxes for free
Pay
Overview
PAY BY
Bank Account (Direct Pay)
Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
POPULAR
Your Online Account
Tax Withholding Estimator
Estimated Taxes
Penalties
Refunds
Overview
Where’s My Refund?
Direct deposit
Where’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
Overview
INFORMATION FOR...
Individuals
For you and your family
Businesses & Self-Employed
Standard mileage and other information
POPULAR
Earned Income Credit (EITC)
Child Tax Credit
Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits
Standard Deduction
Retirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
Overview
POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS
Form 1040
Individual Income Tax Return
Form 1040 Instructions
Instructions for Form 1040
Form W-9
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification
Form 4506-T
Request for Transcript of Tax Return
Form W-4
Employee's Withholding Certificate
Form 941
Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return
Form W-2
Wage and Tax Statement
Form 9465
Installment Agreement Request
POPULAR FOR TAX PROS
Form 1040-X
Amended Individual Income Tax Return
Form 2848
Power of Attorney
Form W-7
Apply for an ITIN
Circular 230
Regulations Governing Practice before the IRS
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
File
OverviewINFORMATION FOR…IndividualsBusiness and self-employedCharities and nonprofitsInternational filersRetirementGovernments and tax-exempt bondsIndian Tribal GovernmentsFILING FOR INDIVIDUALSHow to fileWhen to fileWhere to fileUpdate your informationPOPULARTax record (transcript)Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)Amend returnIdentity Protection PIN (IP PIN)File your taxes for free
Pay
OverviewPAY BYBank Account (Direct Pay)Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)POPULARYour Online AccountTax Withholding EstimatorEstimated TaxesPenalties
Refunds
OverviewWhere’s My Refund?Direct depositWhere’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
OverviewINFORMATION FOR...IndividualsBusinesses & Self-EmployedPOPULAREarned Income Credit (EITC)Child Tax CreditClean Energy and Vehicle CreditsStandard DeductionRetirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
OverviewPOPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONSForm 1040Form 1040 InstructionsForm W-9Form 4506-TForm W-4Form 941Form W-2Form 9465POPULAR FOR TAX PROSForm 1040-XForm 2848Form W-7Circular 230
Main navigation
File
Pay
Refunds
Credits & Deductions
Forms & Instructions
Info Menu Mobile
Charities & Nonprofits
Help
News
Tax Pros
HomeFile
Indian tribal governments
Tax information for Indian tribal governments
More In File
Individuals
Businesses and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International taxpayers
Governmental liaisons
Federal, state and local governments
Indian tribal governments
Tribal government
Tribal members
Gaming and casinos
Employment taxes
Published guidance for tribes
Communication, outreach and education
Indian tribal government news
Contact ITG
Tax exempt bonds
Taxpayer identification numbers (TIN)
New guidance: Tribal general welfare exclusion
The U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) have issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) PDF to implement section 139E of the Internal Revenue Code, created by the Tribal General Welfare Exclusion Act of 2014 (Act). Additionally, Treasury held Tribal consultations on the proposed rule on Nov. 18, 19, and 20, 2024, at 1 p.m. Eastern time.
Treasury accepted written comments received by Jan. 3, 2025, 11:59 p.m. Alaska Time. Written comments were submitted to tribal.consult@treasury.gov.
Treasury and IRS issue proposed regulations providing clarity regarding the federal tax classification of entities entirely owned by Tribal governments
The Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations addressing the federal tax classification of corporations or LLCs that are owned entirely by Indian Tribal governments (Tribes) and formed under the laws of the Tribes that own them.
Under the proposed regulations, Tribal law entities that are entirely owned by Tribes would not be recognized as separate entities for federal tax purposes and would not be subject to federal income tax.
The proposed regulations would also clarify that Tribal law entities entirely owned by Tribes may receive the value of certain energy credits under the Inflation Reduction Act.
Until the final regulations are published in the Federal Register, Tribes and related entities may generally rely on these proposed regulations.
Treasury and IRS encourage interested parties to submit comments on this guidance through Regulations.gov. Please indicate IRS and REG-113628-21 in the submission.
Treasury accepted written comments received by Jan. 21, 2025, 11:59 p.m. Alaska Time.
Additionally, Treasury held Tribal consultations on the proposed rule on Dec. 16, 17, and 18, 2024, at 1 p.m. Eastern time.
Find tax information for Native American tribal governments and members, including tax law, filing and reporting requirements, employment tax and more. Find how we can help you in the IRS Office of Indian Tribal Governments.
Recent developments – Clean energy credits
Clean energy tax credit benefits available
Government and tax-exempt entities can now benefit from clean energy tax credits with new options enabled by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. Find out about elective pay and transferability of clean energy tax credits.
Publication 5884, Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and CHIPS Act of 2022 (CHIPS) Pre-Filing Registration Tool - User Guide and Instructions PDF
The IRA and CHIPS Act Pre-filing Registration Tool overview video
For more information on available credits for elective pay, refer to IRS Publication 5817-G, Clean Energy Tax Incentives: Elective Pay Eligible Tax Credits PDF.
Publication 5817-F, Elective Pay for Indian Tribal Governments PDF
- new instructional video
This video explains how applicable entities, including certain Indian tribal governments, that only need to file Form 990-T to make an elective payment election, complete Form 990-T and related returns.
Tax law and guidance
Current tax law information.
Internal Revenue Code Sections 7871, 7873
Private letter rulings
Tribal general welfare guidance
Frequently asked questions and answers
Tribal governments
Taxable income and filing and reporting requirements.
Tax status of tribes
Tribal tax examinations
Information returns PDF
Tribal members
Help for filing tax returns.
Income Tax Guide for Native American Individuals & Sole Proprietors, Publication 5424 PDF
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)
Gaming and casinos
Casinos, gaming and withholdings.
Gaming revenue distributions
BSA Reporting Requirements for Casinos, Title 31
ITG Sports Wagering Tax Requirements Presentation video
Employment tax
Reporting, deposits, due dates and online tools.
Electronic filing and e-services available
Employment taxes for tribes
Helpful Hints for Indian Tribes and Tribal Entities to Avoid Penalties on Federal Tax Deposits & Information Returns, Publication 5343 PDF
How to avoid ITG employment tax penalties (YouTube)
Coronavirus and Economic Impact Payments: Resources and guidance
COVID-19 Business Tax Relief Tool
Voluntary Classification Settlement Program (VCSP)
Apply for an Employer Identification Number Online video
Get help
Indian tribal tax assistance and services.
Taxpayer Advocate Service
Contact us
Report abusive schemes
Tribal consultation
ITG Resources (YouTube)
Stay current
News, events and opportunities.
Tax-Exempt and Government Entities - Program & Accomplishments Letters
Upcoming and past events
Indian Tribal Government News
Sign up for newsletter
Yellen v. Consolidated Tribes of the Chehalis Reservation, et al. PDF
Our mission:
To provide Indian tribal governments top quality service and respect while helping them understand and comply with applicable tax laws.
About us
The ITG office provides customers quality service by helping them understand and comply with applicable tax laws and protecting the public interest by applying the tax law. Our goal is to meet the needs of both the Indian tribal governments and the federal government, and to simplify the tax administration process.
Tribal government specialists work in locations near the seats of tribal governments. Our specialists can address issues that relate to tribal governments as employers, distributions to tribal members, and the establishment of governmental programs, trusts and businesses.
Visit the Individuals page for information that may assist individual tribal members.
Contact the IRS Office of Indian Tribal Governments if you need further clarification.
Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 26-Aug-2025
ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedinPrint
Footer Navigation
Our Agency
About IRS
Careers
Operations and Budget
Tax Statistics
Help
Find a Local Office
Know Your Rights
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
Taxpayer Advocate Service
Independent Office of Appeals
Civil Rights
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
Reliance on Guidance
Resolve an Issue
IRS Notices and Letters
Identity Theft
Tax scams
Tax Fraud
Criminal Investigation
Whistleblower Office
Languages
Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Pусский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
English
Other Languages
Related Sites
U.S. Treasury
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
USA.gov
USAspending.gov
Vote.gov
Subfooter
Privacy Policy
Accessibility