Google's new study tool personalizes your learning material - here's how | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Google's new study tool personalizes your learning material - here's how
Companies are using AI to build educational tools that aim to meet students where they are.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 9:42 a.m. PT
MirageC/Moment via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysLearn Your Way is now available in Google Labs.Google's education-centered AI models personalize material.AI companies continue to market study tools to younger users.Google is introducing a new way to interact with textbooks, using gen AI to personalize your studying methods. The experience, called Learn Your Way, uses LearnLM, Google's education-specific models, to first personalize and then provide multiple representations of specific content to help users learn a topic, the company says. It is now available on Google Labs.Also: You can chat with Copilot in Firefox now - and Windows users get an extra perkAccording to Google, early reports of Learn Your Way assert that students using the technology scored 11 percentage points higher on exams than students using standard digital textbook readers. How it works The company says Learn Your Way is built on two pillars: generating multiple representations of specific content, and personalizing it to fit learners' needs. In a blog post, Google references the dual coding theory, which suggests that creating connections between different representations of information strengthens our understanding of it.Google also cites research asserting that students who engage with information in multiple formats have a firmer grasp of the topic. Thus, Google aims to offer students numerous ways to choose how they engage with specific material to improve motivation and deepen learning.Also: ChatGPT will verify your age soon, in attempt to protect teen usersLearn Your Way begins by asking about the user's grade level and interests. Then, the learning material is modified to match the user's grade level. The content is then appropriately adjusted to the user's learning level and includes aspects of their personal interests. As an example, let's say the learning topic is Newton's laws of motion, and the user, who is in the eleventh grade, chooses basketball as a personal interest. The content will use basketball as a metaphor to explain Newton's laws, reference basketball when quizzing the user, and use a basketball to visually demonstrate the topic.Learn Your Way's teaching methods consist of five components: "immersive text" including digestible sections, generated images, and embedded questions, "section-level quizzes" to address knowledge gaps, "slides and narration" to mimic a lecture, "audio lesson" simulating conversations between an AI-powered teacher and student, and "mind map" to help students understand the entire lesson, Google said. Also: Got 6 hours? This free AI training from Google and Goodwill can boost your resume todayAccording to Google, an AI-powered learning tool is useful only if it improves learning outcomes and is attractive to students. To test Learn Your Way's effectiveness, the company tasked a 60-student control group with learning about adolescent brain development. Students were randomly assigned to understand the information either using Learn Your Way or a digital PDF reader.Three to five days later, the students were given a retention test to assess their content comprehension. The results stated that students who used Learn Your Way scored 11% higher on the assessment given days later.How to try itYou'll have to join a waitlist to access the fully personalized version of Learn Your Way. However, Google has made a few topics available for users to try while they wait, including "An Overview of Economic Systems," "What is Sociology?" and "Overview of Anatomy & Physiology," which are set with predetermined interests like soccer and therefore won't give you the same personalization experience. These topics are broadly categorized by middle school, high school, or undergraduate students.Also: My top 5 free AI tools for school - and how they can help supercharge your learningStill, Google Labs isn't the only place to access AI-powered study tools. Some research shows students using AI chatbots for study help, either for problem-solving assistance, creating lesson plans, or analyzing data. Google is also offering its AI Pro plan free to students.Other AI tools are optimized for student productivity, like Microsoft's Copilot for Microsoft 356, which you can get for free. These tools can help students summarize Teams chats and meetings, help with comprehension in Microsoft Word, or interact with data in Excel. Other AI tools, like Grammarly for essay editing or Quizlet for study sessions, are also popular among teachers and students.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
AI's not 'reasoning' at all - how this team debunked the industry hype
Students are using AI tools instead of building foundational skills - but resistance is growing
How Google's new AI model protects user privacy without sacrificing performance
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use