Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? My advice after years of phone reviews | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? My advice after years of phone reviews
Before the new iPhones land next week, here's what you should know to make a smart buying decision.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 6, 2025 at 2:30 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Like clockwork, a new iPhone has made its way through the rumor mill in August, and users are beginning to wonder if they should buy what's currently available or wait until fall to see how things play out.Based on past trends, there's a good chance Apple will unveil the iPhone 17 series next Tuesday. So, should you pick up an iPhone 16 from your local Apple store today or play the long (but not that long) game? Also: Apple iPhone 17 event live blog: The biggest announcements we're expecting on Sept. 9Having tested every major smartphone release over the past several years and helped numerous family and friends overcome this exact dilemma, here's the decision tree I use that works every single time.1. Do you need a new phone right now?
Elyse Betters Picaro/ZDNETPretty simple, right? If you're currently using a handset that's severely damaged or defected in a way that prevents it from completing your daily tasks, then it's time to buy a new phone right now.I've had friends say that they'd be willing to power through another month with a heavily cracked iPhone if it meant they could just buy the next-generation model. However, that doesn't take into consideration the fact that Apple typically sells its newest iPhones weeks (if not longer) after they're officially unveiled to the public.Also: You can download iOS 26 public beta right now - how to install (and which iPhones support it)So, what's expected to be a week's wait time can easily become a month or more, depending on which configuration and model you buy. That's to say, if you need a new phone today, don't wait -- buy one ASAP.2. How much are you looking to spend?
Jason Hiner/ZDNETEvery new iPhone launch has a big unknown: pricing. So, your current (and expected) budget should also be considered as you decide which model to buy. Apple's done a commendable job stabilizing iPhone prices over the years, with the base model typically starting at $799, the Pro at $999, and the Pro Max at $1,199, so most people would assume the iPhone 17 series will cost about the same.But there are a few more variables factoring into this year's iPhone launch. First, Apple is expected to release a new iPhone 17 Air (or Slim) model that features a thinner and lighter design than the standard variant. If it follows Samsung's price strategy with its ultra-thin Galaxy S25 Edge, we can be looking at an iPhone that's priced just below the Pro models.Also: Should you buy a refurbished iPhone 15 from Apple? Only if these factors matter to youOngoing tariff and trade talks have also led market analysts to believe that Apple will raise the price of iPhones starting this September. According to Jefferies analyst Edison Lee, the iPhone 17 Air, Pro, and Pro Max may see a $50 price increase, or a 4-5% bump from last year, in order to offset the cost of new components and exports. Here's a snapshot comparison to the iPhone 16 series.iPhone 16 pricesiPhone 17 prices (expected)Standard$799$799Air/Slim-$949Pro$999$1,049Pro Max$1,199$1,249If the potential price increase gives you pause, then it may make more financial sense to buy an older iPhone model like the 16 or 15, or even the new but accessible iPhone 16e (starting at $599). Apple typically reduces the price of the last-generation iPhone model by $100 when a new one is released, so there's a good chance you'll be able to buy the iPhone 16 for as low as $699 later this month -- should you choose to wait things out.Also: How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before installing iOS 26 public beta)Lastly, while carriers and retailers typically offer aggressive trade-in and buy-one-get-one deals when a new phone is released, these deals are not without their catches and fine print. Most "free phone" offers by major carriers usually come in exchange for locking into a long-term contract or upgrading to a pricier data plan. That's not to say that the deals aren't worth it; for the right customer, they can really net you a new iPhone without much extra work. Just remember to do your due diligence before agreeing to anything.3. Do the rumored iPhone 17 features excite you?
Kerry Wan/ZDNETWhile none of these rumored features have been confirmed or made official by Apple, they give us a glimpse of the next iPhone's potential. Here's a list of expected changes this year, pulled from industry experts, supply chain analysts, and more.The iPhone 17 Air will feature the thinnest and lightest design, with a new display size, a titanium frame, and a revamped camera bar.Apple will likely replace the iPhone 17 Plus with the iPhone 17 Air, as consumers have shown the least interest in the former model.The iPhone 17 may adopt a smaller "metalens" technology that allows the Face ID sensor and Dynamic Island module to take up less space on the display. This also allows Apple to shrink the phone's bezels and increase the screen size to 6.3 inches.Only the iPhone 17 Pro models will have a new scratch-resistant, antireflective display panel. Like Apple's nanotexture offerings for MacBooks and iPads, it may come at an extra cost.The iPhone 17 Pro models will feature a new 48-megapixel telephoto camera that can capture at 8x optical zoom (up from 5x).Also: iPhone 17 Rumors: Latest News and Leaks - CNETThe expected color options are:iPhone 17: Black, White, Steel Gray, Green, Purple, and Light BlueiPhone 17 Air: Black, White, Light Blue, and Light GoldiPhone 17 Pro: Black, White, Gray, Dark Blue, and OrangeiPhone 17 Pro Max: Black, White, Gray, Dark Blue, and OrangeBottom line: Buy now or wait?If you need a new phone immediately and cannot wait up to a month, you should buy an iPhone 16 (or other existing model) right now. The iPhone 16's current features, including an A18 chip that can power Apple Intelligence tools, Action Button, Camera Control, and Wi-Fi 7 support, will remain relevant for years to come, so you're not missing out on much by opting for last year's model. There's also a good chance that you'll find a deal or price drop on the iPhone 16 today.Also: We tested iOS 26 on the iPhone 16 Pro - these 5 features make the update worthwhileIf you're in less of a hurry, wait until next Tuesday to see what Apple has to offer with the iPhone 17 series. Perhaps the iPhone 17 Aiir/Slim model will appeal to you more than expected, or Apple introduces a camera feature that solves one of your biggest pain points. Just be prepared for anything to happen, including a higher price across the board -- or none at all.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use