Best VPN for Streaming in 2025: Unblock International Movies and TV Shows on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer and More - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
Best VPN for Streaming in 2025: Unblock International Movies and TV Shows on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer and More
Say goodbye to content restrictions. The best streaming VPNs let you access international Netflix, BBC iPlayer and other regional streaming services from anywhere in the world.
Article updated on September 12, 2025 at 6:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Written by
Moe Long
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Moe Long Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film. Expertise Apps | Operating systems | Software
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall VPN for streaming
ExpressVPN
Privacy protection and transparency
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
See Price at ExpressVPN
9
/10
SCORE
Usability
10
Value
7
Speed
9
Privacy
10
Features
9
Pros
Unblocks Netflix, Hulu, Disney Plus and other popular streaming services
Slick app for mobile, desktop, smart TVs and streaming devices
Easiest VPN to use on routers for streaming on devices without VPN support
Fast speeds for streaming
Cons
Extremely expensive
Only eight simultaneous connections
No way to opt out of potentially unwanted premium features
Price
$13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)Latest Tests
No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,000 plus servers in 105 countriesJurisdiction
British Virgin Islands
Why we like it ExpressVPN is our pick for the best streaming VPN. It's a top-notch VPN provider that demonstrates a steadfast commitment to privacy and transparency. It’s a safe choice for privacy-conscious VPN users, and also a fantastic option for casual users because it’s extremely simple to use, fast and excellent for streaming. Why we like it for streamingDuring our testing, we were able to access geo-restricted content from popular streaming sites like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Max and Amazon Prime Video through various global server locations. Streaming quality was excellent across all devices we tested on, with no buffering or video quality issues, even when playing 4K videos. You can connect up to 10 devices simultaneously with ExpressVPN, which is on par with NordVPN and Proton VPN but fewer than Surfshark, and should still be enough for most people. If you need to connect more devices -- or stream on smart TVs that don't natively support VPN apps -- ExpressVPN's Aircove VPN router lets you bypass the company's 10 device limit. With ExpressVPN, you’ll get a simple interface and consistent user experience across platforms, making ExpressVPN an ideal choice for beginners. Apps are available for Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS, Apple TV, Android TV, Fire TV Stick and even a newly released GUI app for Linux. You can make ExpressVPN work with smart TVs or devices that don't offer native VPN apps using the provider's own Aircove router with the VPN built right in. Alternatively, you can use ExpressVPN's intuitive router app on a compatible third-party router for whole-network coverage. You’ll want fast speeds for streaming and other data-heavy activities like gaming and torrenting. ExpressVPN delivers -- we lost only 18% of our base internet speeds in our latest round of speed testing with ExpressVPN.
Read more
ExpressVPN is a well-rounded VPN and one of the very best you can buy for streaming or practically any other use case. But the catch is that you’ll pay a premium. The monthly subscription plan costs $13 per month, which is pretty standard across the industry. You’ll pay $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $100 annually). That's about on par with NordVPN, but more expensive than the value-packed Surfshark and Proton VPN. A seven-day free trial is available, followed by a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you can test ExpressVPN risk-free to see if it works well for your streaming needs before committing.Also featured in: Best VPN Service for 2024, Best VPN for Apple TV
Photo Gallery 1/1
Fastest VPN for streaming
NordVPN
Perfect for power users
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at NordVPN
8.8
/10
SCORE
Usability
8
Value
8
Speed
10
Privacy
9
Features
9
Pros
Fast speeds for buffer-free streaming in 4K
Vast network of servers offers tons of global streaming options
Apps for all major platforms
Lots of privacy features
Cons
Extreme renewal prices
Clunky AppleTV app
Limited split tunneling control on Android
Price
$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 3% average internet download speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
7,400-plus servers in 118 countriesJurisdiction
Panama
Why we like it NordVPN is currently the fastest VPN based on our latest speed tests (a mere 3% speed loss), making it an outstanding choice for streaming. All VPNs will slow your internet speeds somewhat, but we registered the lowest speed dips with NordVPN in our testing. Why we like it for streamingWe didn’t suffer any buffering or video quality issues when watching videos, even while streaming 4K content. In our testing, NordVPN effortlessly unblocked foreign Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney Plus and Max libraries. With NordVPN enabled on Chromecast with Google TV, we were able to unblock Star Trek: The Next Generation on Netflix UK, which is typically reserved for Paramount Plus subscribers in the US. Additionally, we had no issues watching BBC iPlayer, CBC Gem, Hulu, Crunchyroll and several other regional streaming services. The NordVPN app is simple to navigate and packed with features on most platforms. There’s a helpful list of the fastest servers for different countries, such as Canada, the UK, the US, France and Germany, alongside access to all available servers across 126 different countries. You’ll find Onion over VPN, double VPN and obfuscated servers for even more robust privacy protection. You can select a preferred VPN protocol, use split tunneling and auto-connect with NordVPN.
Read more
A kill switch is notably absent from some of NordVPN’s streaming client apps, including Android TV, Apple TV and Fire TV. That’s normally a deal-breaker for us, but if privacy is secondary and your main objective is to simply stream movies or TV shows, then you may not mind the omission. Like other top VPNs for streaming, NordVPN features an Apple TV app, but the app's server selection functionality is still a headache to navigate. NordVPN's whole-home VPN router compatibility lets you access foreign Disney Plus, Netflix and Amazon Prime Video libraries on smart TVs or other devices that might not have downloadable VPN apps. With NordVPN, you can connect up to 10 devices at once, which should be enough for most people. The monthly plan is $13 per month, the annual subscription costs $60 for the first year, and the two-year subscription costs $81 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $140 annually). NordVPN's starting prices are essentially aligned with what ExpressVPN offers, but you'll pay a premium for its service in comparison to wallet-friendly VPN providers like Surfshark and Proton VPN. All subscription plans are protected by a 30-day money-back guarantee.Also featured in: Best VPN for Fire TV, Best VPN for Netflix
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best value VPN for streaming
Surfshark
Extensive features at a great price
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at Surfshark
8.6
/10
SCORE
Usability
9
Value
9
Speed
8
Privacy
8
Features
9
Pros
Fast speeds for streaming
Unlimited simultaneous connections
Value-packed VPN for streaming
Lots of unique privacy features
Cons
Renewal pricing has gotten more expensive
Issues streaming Hulu on certain platforms
Price
$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 21% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,200-plus servers in 100 countriesJurisdiction
Netherlands
Why we like it If you’re on a budget or you’re a Netflix user seeking to get the most out of your subscription, Surfshark is the way to go. It supports almost every device you can think of, including the Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and Android TV streaming boxes. We found that Surfshark is more than capable of streaming content on various streaming services, like Disney Plus and Amazon Prime Video. However, we did run into a few issues when attempting to stream content on Hulu, including the Fire TV Stick app detecting the VPN.Why we like it for streamingSurfshark really excelled when we tested the provider’s ability to stream Netflix. Surfshark says it can unblock 22 different countries’ Netflix libraries, but it unblocked even more during our testing, including libraries from countries like Denmark, Bulgaria, Belgium and Hungary. Other VPNs can unblock multiple Netflix libraries, but a VPN can rarely do it to the degree that Surfshark can. With Surfshark, we were able to stream The Bear on Disney Plus using a Canadian server (it's on Hulu in the US), The Jetty on BBC iPlayer with a UK server and Law & Order SVU on Netflix with a French server (SVU is on Peacock in the US).We’re impressed with Surfshark’s consistently fast speeds over the past few years, with an average speed loss hovering in the high-teens. We measured an average speed loss of 21% in our 2025 speed tests -- which is technically slower than previous years, but shouldn’t result in a noticeable difference in practice.
Read more
As well as being an excellent VPN for streaming, Surfshark packs a ton of useful privacy features into a budget-friendly package. You can boost your privacy by routing your connection through two servers of your choice using Surfshark’s Dynamic Multihop feature or shuffling your IP address using the VPN’s IP Rotator feature. Its GPS spoofer -- only available on Android -- may even let you unblock certain streaming services, like YouTube TV, that rely on GPS for geo-location. Surfshark also offers unlimited simultaneous connections, which goes beyond what most others allow for. Apps are available for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS and streaming devices, including Apple TV, Fire TV Stick and Android TV dongles or boxes. You can also set Surfshark up on a VPN-compatible router for whole-network coverage and to stream on smart TVs that don't natively support VPN apps.Surfshark's monthly plan costs $15.45 per month, but you can get considerable savings with its longer-term plans. Its yearly plan starts at $48 for the first year, or if you opt for the two-year plan, you'll pay $60 upfront for the initial two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually). A 30-day money-back guarantee is available with all subscription plans.Also featured in: Best VPN for Amazon Prime Video, Best VPN for Your Smart TV
Photo Gallery 1/1
Most versatile VPN for streaming
Proton VPN
The only free plan we recommend
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at Proton VPN
8
/10
SCORE
Security
9
Usability
8
Value
7
Speed
8
Privacy
8
Features
9
Pros
Excellent for streaming
Unblocks Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video and others
Fast speeds for streaming
Vast network of server locations for international streaming
Cons
No 24/7 live chat support
App design could be more user-friendly
Struggles with Disney Plus on MacOS
Latest tests
No leaks detected, 16% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
12,000-plus servers in 117 countriesJurisdiction
SwitzerlandPrice
$10 a month, $60 for the first year or $108 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $80 per year)
Why we like it If you want a VPN that’s free and still able to stream the US Netflix library, then Proton VPN is the ideal choice. Proton VPN is currently the only free VPN that CNET recommends -- it’s secure, safe to use and doesn’t put any limits on speed or usage. Technically, Proton VPN’s free servers across five countries aren’t optimized for streaming, but we still achieved sufficient speeds and were able to smoothly stream Netflix content through the VPN’s free US servers. With Proton VPN's premium tier, you get access to 15,000-plus servers in 122 countries and excellent streaming performance across platforms.
Why we like it for streamingWhile Proton VPN caters primarily to the privacy-focused crowd, it's a well-rounded VPN service that has broad appeal for casual users, thanks in large part to its first-rate streaming capabilities. During our tests, we accessed content from several regional Netflix libraries as well as content on Hulu, Amazon Prime Video and Disney Plus. Its ability to unblock international Netflix libraries, including the Egyptian Netflix library (which rivals NordVPN and Surfshark struggled to unblock), makes Proton VPN's paid tier a worthy VPN for streaming. The only hiccup we ran into was that we couldn't stream Disney Plus on MacOS through Proton VPN's US servers, although it worked fine on other platforms. We didn't experience any buffering or video quality issues, and streaming content in 4K went smoothly with Proton VPN across all platforms during our tests -- which wasn't surprising considering the VPN cut our speeds by only 16%. Apps are available for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android and iOS, as well as for various streaming devices like AppleTV, Fire TV Stick and Android TV. You can also set Proton VPN up on a router for whole-network coverage and to stream content on smart TVs and other devices like Roku that don't natively support VPN apps. You can connect up to 10 devices at once with Proton VPN, which is the same as what NordVPN allows and more than ExpressVPN. A few other VPNs, including Surfshark and PIA allow for unlimited simultaneous connections, but Proton VPN's allowance of 10 should be enough for most users.
Read more
Proton VPN's free plan is limited to five server locations (US, Japan, Netherlands, Poland and Romania). Proton VPN's paid subscriptions cost $10 per month, $60 for the first year or $108 total for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans renew at $80 a year). A 30-day money-back guarantee is available on all subscription plans in case Proton VPN doesn't fit your streaming needs.Also featured in: Best VPN for Travel, Best Free VPN
VPN DEALS OF THE WEEK
Norton VPN Plus for 72% Off Your First Year:  $30 (save $80)
Surfshark VPN: $1.99 Per Month + 3 Months Free (87% Off 2 Years Starter Plan):  $2 (save $5)
Norton Secure VPN: $3.33 Per Month for 5 Devices (50% Off 1 Year Plan):  $50 (save $60)
NordVPN: $4.39 Per Month + $20 Amazon Gift Card (70% Off 2 Years Plus Plan):  $4 (save $9)
ExpressVPN: $4.99 Per Month + 4 Months Free (64% Off 2 Years Plan):  $5 (save $8) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best VPN for Streaming in 2025: Unblock International Movies and TV Shows on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer and More
Best streaming VPNs compared
What is the best VPN for streaming right now?
Why you should use a VPN for streaming
Factors to consider in a VPN for streaming: How to choose the right VPN
How we test VPNs for streaming
Other VPNs we tested
Streaming VPN FAQ
Best streaming VPNs compared Here's how CNET's top VPNs for streaming stack up side by side.
ExpressVPNNordVPNSurfsharkProton VPNOverall rating 98.88.68.4Price $13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 a year)$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $81 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140)$15.45 per month, $48 for the first year or $60 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually)$10 per month, $60 for the first year or $108 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $80 annually)Netflix compatibility ✔️✔️✔️✔️Disney+ compatibility ✔️✔️✔️✔️Max compatibility ✔️✔️✔️✔️Prime Video compatibility ✔️✔️✔️✔️Hulu compatibility ✔️✔️✔️✔️BBC iPlayer compatibility ✔️✔️✔️✔️Simultaneous connections 810Unlimited10
What is the best VPN for streaming right now?
ExpressVPN is currently the best VPN for streaming. It effortlessly unblocks Netflix and other popular streaming services like Disney Plus and Amazon Prime Video. The ExpressVPN app -- available for nearly every platform, including dedicated streaming devices like Android TV, Fire TV and Apple TV -- is incredibly easy to use, making it a great choice for VPN beginners. With servers in each of the 50 United States, ExpressVPN is an excellent choice for unblocking regional content, like streaming NFL, NBA, WNBA or NWSL games.
ExpressVPN can unblock virtually any streaming service on any platform, helping it secure the top spot on our list of the best VPNS for streaming. Screenshot by CNETNordVPN is the fastest VPN for streaming, with superb reliability and broad device compatibility, including an Apple TV app. We measured a mere 3% speed loss in our latest speed tests with NordVPN, making it excellent for 4K video streaming. It also has a unique feature called Meshnet that you may be able to use to stream more easily while traveling.
Nord's excellent geo-unblocking and fast speeds make it great for streaming Screenshot by CNETSurfshark is the best value VPN for streaming. Its excellent speeds are great for streaming movies or shows in 4K. It also has apps for tons of streaming devices, including Apple TV, Fire TV and Android TV. You may be able to utilize Surfshark's unique GPS spoofer feature on Android to unblock certain streaming services that use GPS for geo-location, like YouTube TV.
Surfshark expertly unblocks Netflix and other popular streaming services. Screenshot by CNETProton VPN is the most versatile VPN for streaming. It offers a free plan that's decent for streaming and doesn't impose any limits on speeds or usage. But Proton VPN's premium tier is one of the best options for streaming, thanks to its fast speeds, excellent geo-unblocking capabilities and expansive global network of servers.
Proton VPN offers tons of servers and can unblock multiple regional Netflix libraries. Screenshot by CNET
Show more
Why you should use a VPN for streaming
A virtual private network can be your all-access pass to streaming content from all over the world. VPNs encrypt your internet traffic, changing your public IP address, which can make it look like you're in another city, state or even country. Due to regional licensing agreements, streaming sites like Amazon Prime Video, Max, Disney Plus and Hulu have unique content libraries that vary by region. Using a VPN can help you access those region-specific libraries. For instance, if you want to access your home Netflix library while traveling outside of the US, you can connect to a US-based VPN server and access the content as if you were at home. Alternatively, you'll be able to access international content that is not normally available in your region. All you need to do is click or tap on the country location you want to stream content from in the VPN app and you're good to go. Changing your virtual location with a VPN can also help you cut through regional sports broadcast blackouts or even save you money on streaming subscriptions.Choosing the right streaming VPN allows you to keep up with new releases and global streaming video content without being locked into one regional catalog. However, not all VPNs are equally capable when it comes to streaming service unblocking. Many streaming services have systems in place to detect and block VPN usage. We've rigorously tested a bevy of VPN services over the years, putting them through their paces to see how they perform with internet speeds, app usability, connection reliability, privacy and streaming. When evaluating a VPN's streaming capabilities, we test how smoothly the VPN is able to unblock regional streaming content from a wide variety of streaming services through various international server locations across different platforms like mobile, desktop and dedicated streaming devices. Based on that testing, we've designated ExpressVPN as our top pick for the best VPN for streaming, but NordVPN and Surfshark are both worthy alternatives. Whether you want to stream NFL games, watch Wednesday on Netflix or enjoy Alien Earth on Hulu, a VPN for streaming has you covered.
Show more
Factors to consider in a VPN for streaming: How to choose the right VPN
Based on our years of experience using and testing VPNs, here's what you should consider when choosing a VPN for streaming.Streaming capabilitiesYour VPN’s capacity to access streaming content is the top factor to consider in a VPN for streaming. If your VPN can’t access geo-restricted streaming content, it isn’t fit for this purpose. It’s also important to make sure that the VPN you choose works well for the specific streaming services you want to access. Think about the streaming services you want to watch like Netflix, Disney Plus, Amazon Prime Video, Max, Hulu, Peacock, Crunchyroll, YouTube TV and Sling -- then try your VPN with those services to see if it works. We've found that ExpressVPN, NordVPN and Surfshark all work reliably with each of those streaming services across most platforms.
Keep in mind that a streaming service that works with a specific VPN today may not tomorrow (and vice versa). Sometimes a simple server switch can do the trick and get you access to the content you're looking for. If not, you can alert your VPN's support team to the issue and they may be able to get it resolved. Each of these VPNs will give you your money back within 30 days of purchase, so if it happens to not work as well as you want, you can get a refund. Check out the best VPNs for Netflix and the best VPNs for Amazon Prime Video for more information. SpeedYour VPN’s speed performance plays a major role in the overall quality of your streaming experience. You’ll need a VPN that’s fast, especially if you’re streaming in 4K or if you’re accessing geo-blocked content from a region that’s a considerable distance from your physical location. Generally, you'll need download speeds of 25Mbps at a bare minimum for 4K streaming, but you'll want at least 50Mbps for reliable 4K streaming. You can get by with far less (10 to 20Mbps) for HD streaming. All VPNs will slow your speeds somewhat (sometimes by 50% or more), but if your VPN is slowing your connection too much, you may end up experiencing a lot of buffering or lower-quality video playback. A fast streaming VPN will only reduce your download speeds minimally -- ideally by 25% or less on average. As long as your connection is fast enough to begin with, the speed loss shouldn't be noticeable.PrivacyRegardless of what you’re using your VPN for, privacy is a key consideration for any VPN service. Your VPN should have privacy measures in place, like DNS leak protection, a kill switch, modern encryption protocols and a no-logs policy (ideally one that’s been audited or tested in the wild). A VPN that provides the necessary privacy protections will ensure that your internet traffic is never leaked unencrypted.NetworkA good VPN for streaming should have a network of servers in locations across the globe. If you’re looking to fully optimize your streaming and get access to the largest selection of streaming content, then you’ll probably want to choose a VPN with servers located in the largest number of countries. If you’re looking to access content from a specific region, you should check to ensure the VPN you want to use has servers in the region(s) you need. You can check the VPN’s server page on its website to see what countries it has servers in before purchasing a subscription. Most of our top picks feature thousands of servers in 100-plus countries. To unblock streaming content from a specific country, all you need to do is use the VPN app to connect to a server located in the country from which you want to stream content. For example, to access the US Netflix library, ensure you're connected to a server in the US. Or if you want to access content on BBC iPlayer, connect to a UK server. Device compatibilityYou’ll also want to make sure that the streaming VPN you choose is compatible with the device on which you want to stream content, whether that’s a mobile device, laptop, smart TV or streaming device. Most VPNs are compatible with a wide range of devices, but it’s always a good idea to confirm that the service you’re considering will work with your device. Many VPNs have apps for Fire TV and Android TV that work on streaming devices or smart TVs, but not every provider has an Apple TV app yet. NordVPN, ExpressVPN, Surfshark, Proton VPN, PIA and IPVanish are a few of the providers that do have Apple TV apps. (Disclosure: IPVanish is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.) Luckily, you can use a VPN on your router if you want to use a VPN with devices like PlayStation 5 and Xbox consoles or Roku streaming devices that don't support native VPN apps.Router installationIt isn't necessary to use a router to stream geo-blocked content with a VPN, but it can help if your smart TV or streaming device doesn't natively support VPN apps. Also, with a VPN router setup, you can protect all of the devices on your network at once while using only one of your allotted simultaneous connections. Installing a VPN on a compatible router can be difficult and even risky if you try it yourself, so be sure you have the technical know-how to do so before proceeding. Alternatively, you can purchase a router with a VPN preinstalled from a company like FlashRouters. If you're an ExpressVPN user, you can purchase the provider's Aircove router or use its intuitive router app on your existing VPN-compatible router. CostVPN prices can vary considerably from one provider to another. A monthly VPN subscription can range anywhere from about $5 to $15 per month. Longer-term VPN subscription plans often feature introductory pricing around $40 to $100 for the first year. But be aware that renewal prices can sometimes double or even quadruple -- with VPN renewal pricing coming in anywhere from $50 to $150 or more per year after introductory term. If you're on a budget, take a look at our list of the best cheap VPNs. You can even use a VPN to save money on your streaming subscriptions because a VPN can help you access more global content without you having to subscribe to as many streaming services. Sports streamingIf you're a sports fan, you can use a VPN to avoid regional blackouts and stream sports from anywhere. To do so, just connect to a VPN server in a location where the sporting event is accessible online -- whether it’s a specific U.S. city, or a different country -- and you should be able to stream all the sports you want. For instance, you can use a VPN to stream out-of-market NFL games or watch NFL matches while traveling abroad. How we test VPNs for streaming
We know choosing a VPN for streaming can be a tall task, so we thoroughly tested different providers using different streaming services on several platforms. For each VPN, we evaluated each provider’s streaming performance on mobile, desktop and dedicated streaming devices like Amazon’s Fire TV Stick and Apple TV. After evaluating how easy it was to navigate each VPN app, we connected to dozens of server locations (including the US, UK, Australia, Japan, Egypt, France, Germany and Canada) with each VPN to determine if the service was able to unblock geo-restricted content from different regions around the world on streaming services such as Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu and Amazon Prime Video. We noted whenever a VPN was blocked from accessing certain geo-restricted content, and we checked to make sure the VPN connections were fast enough for streaming in 4K and that the streaming experience was smooth and free of buffering when a VPN was able to successfully stream content. Each VPN we’ve listed here is a capable VPN for streaming, but one may work better for you than another, based on your particular needs or budget. Each VPN here also offers a money-back guarantee, so you can try them out before you fully commit to one.
Show more
Other VPNs we tested
Private Internet AccessThe wallet-friendly Private Internet Access, or PIA, is an open-source VPN provider with a strong focus on privacy. PIA costs just $12 monthly, $40 for the first year (the one-year plan renews at $50 annually) or $79 every three years. Although PIA worked well enough for Netflix and Disney Plus, it struggled with Amazon Prime Video. PIA has apps for nearly every platform, including Windows, MacOS, Linux (with a GUI that's more beginner-friendly than a command-line interface), web browsers, iOS/iPadOS, Android/Android TV and Apple TV. Despite its affordability compared with many VPN rivals, PIA is tough to recommend for streaming because of its middle-of-the-road speed performance. In our testing, we clocked an underwhelming 49% average speed loss. Folks with fast internet speeds (50 megabits per second or more) should be fine, but slower or more unreliable internet connections like satellite internet might not work as well. (For reference, Netflix recommends a minimum 15Mbps download speed for a single 4K video stream.) Ultimately, PIA is a fantastic VPN with strong privacy features, but its streaming shortcomings limit its appeal for VPN users who want to unblock a wide selection of streaming content. Read our PIA review.IPVanishIPVanish is a decent VPN for streaming if you’re new to VPNs and want a solution that’s simple to use and can help you watch content on various streaming platforms. During our testing, we were able to access Netflix libraries from a handful of regions, along with content on Hulu, Amazon Prime Video and Disney Plus. Although some VPNs may struggle to deliver across platforms, we were able to access each of the streaming services we tested on each of the devices we tested them on with IPVanish. The main area where IPVanish struggles is its speed. The inconsistency of IPVanish’s speeds -- we clocked a high 44% average speed loss in our 2024 tests -- may put a damper on your streaming experience, especially while watching 4K ultra-high-definition videos.A monthly subscription to IPVanish costs $13 per month, which is on par with many other VPNs, but its annual plan starts off cheaper than both NordVPN and ExpressVPN at $40 for the first year. IPVanish offers a two-year plan that costs $52 total for the first two years combined. Beware that the one-year and two-year plan prices skyrocket to an absurd $156 per year or $312 total every two years after the initial one- or two-year term. Although IPVanish's renewal prices are only slightly more expensive than ExpressVPN's and NordVPN's similarly excessive renewal prices, IPVanish's unremarkable feature set, average overall performance and sluggish speeds make it comparably unattractive and not an ideal choice for streaming enthusiasts. (Disclosure: IPVanish is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis).Read our IPVanish review.MullvadMullvad is an excellent choice for privacy-conscious VPN users and posted a reasonable 24% average speed loss in our latest testing. It worked well with Netflix, Disney Plus and Hulu, but it struggled with streaming Amazon Prime Video during our tests and doesn't offer full, native support for smart TVs or streaming devices like Amazon Fire TV Stick or Apple TV. That, in combination with its comparatively small network of servers in just 49 countries, makes Mullvad a tough sell for folks wanting to use the VPN for streaming purposes.Mullvad requires zero personal information to sign up -- not even an email address -- and costs a flat fee of $5 per month whether you use it for a month, a year or five years. You can pay for and add as many months to your account as you want, but Mullvad doesn't have recurring subscriptions of any sort because it strives to collect as little data as possible. If you're not satisfied with the service, then you can request a refund within the first 30 days of purchase.Read our Mullvad review.
Show more
Streaming VPN FAQ
Is it legal to use a VPN for streaming?
Unless you’re in a region where VPN use is illegal or restricted, there’s nothing illegal about using a VPN for streaming. It’s a good idea to check the Terms of Service page of the streaming service you’re using to ensure that it doesn’t include language that would render your VPN use in violation of its terms. If you violate a streaming service’s ToS by using a VPN, you may find yourself suspended or even banned from the service. It’s more likely that you’ll just get a pop-up dialogue that says that a VPN/proxy has been detected and the content is not accessible. We haven’t heard of anyone getting in trouble for using a VPN with a streaming service, but it’s up to you to weigh the associated risks.
Show more
Which streaming services work with VPNs?
Many streaming services have technology in place to detect and prevent VPN use on their platforms to abide by regional licensing agreements. However, the best streaming VPNs are able to get past those blockades and give users access to geo-restricted content. The VPNs listed above all work with a wide variety of streaming services including Netflix, Disney Plus, HBO Max, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer and Crunchyroll.
Show more
Why isn't my VPN working with Netflix/Disney plus/etc.?
Keep in mind that streaming with a VPN is often a cat-and-mouse game between the VPN and the streaming service, so a streaming service that works today with a specific VPN may not tomorrow, and vice versa. The best VPNs for streaming work hard to give users access to a variety of streaming services, but sometimes there are issues. If your VPN isn't working with a specific streaming service, a simple server switch may do the trick. You can also try streaming the content on another device if you have other devices available. If you're still running into issues, you can contact the VPN's support team and let them know you're having trouble streaming content -- most of the time, they'll do their best to get the issue ironed out on their end.
Show more
Can I use a VPN to save money on streaming subscriptions?
It's possible to save money on streaming subscriptions by using a VPN. Because a VPN can help give you access to content not normally available in your region, your streaming options can be substantially expanded. For example, you can access content on a different country's Netflix library that may normally only be available on Peacock in your location -- in which case you'd only have to subscribe to Netflix to access the content you want. This way, you can potentially limit the number of streaming services you subscribe to and save money.
Show more
Do I need a VPN for every streaming device?
You don't necessarily need a VPN for every streaming device you own, but there are a few considerations to keep in mind. If your streaming device natively supports VPN apps and you want to use it to unblock geo-restricted content, then it's a good idea to install a VPN on that device. Some VPNs allow for unlimited simultaneous connections and some limit the number of devices you can connect at once to 10 or less. If your VPN's simultaneous connections allowance is limiting, you can install your VPN on a compatible router to cover all of the devices on your network with a single connection. A router setup can also help you run your VPN on smart TVs and streaming devices like Roku that don't natively support VPN apps. Alternatively, if your VPN offers a SmartDNS option, you can use that directly on your streaming device even if it doesn't support VPN apps. The catch is that SmartDNS doesn't encrypt your traffic and your DNS queries are still visible to your ISP when you use one -- so while SmartDNS can help you unblock geo-restricted content, it doesn't offer the same privacy benefits that your VPN does.
Show more
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.