Public Radio Finances : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Public Radio Finances NPR is an independent, non-profit media organization. We are also a membership organization made up of independently operated public radio stations — in all 50 states, as well as the District of Columbia, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands — that together reach more than 99% of Americans.
Public Radio Finances
June 20, 20134:23 PM ET
NPR is an independent, non-profit media organization. We are also a membership organization made up of independently operated public radio stations — in all 50 states, as well as the District of Columbia, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands — that together reach more than 99% of Americans.
Congress has passed a rescission bill to claw back funding for public media, but our commitment to you will never waver. NPR and its remarkable network of local stations will continue to bring you rigorous journalism, courageous storytelling, inspired music discovery, and the kind of reporting that democracy depends on — every day, without fear or favor. That is the promise of a free press in a democracy. It's in the First Amendment. It is the mission of public media. Federal funding and direct support from listeners and readers are both critical pieces of the private-public funding model that has made public media possible from the very beginning. This funding model enabled the flourishing of a uniquely American system of unparalleled cultural, informational, and educational programming, and ensured access to vital emergency alerting and reporting in times of crisis — all for about $1.60 per American, every year. It supports access to news and information, educational resources, noncommercial music, and emergency alerting services for the entire nation — particularly in rural and underserved areas where commercial media organizations can't or won't compete. Federal funding for public media also only amounted to about 0.01% of federal spending, but it supported services in communities across America. For every federal grant dollar received, on average, public radio stations have been able to leverage those funds to raise seven times the amount from other sources such as local listener, foundation, and business support. We will fight to restore federal funding. In the meantime, support from listeners and readers is more critical than ever.
SUPPORT PUBLIC RADIO
Other NPR About pages offer additional information on the role of institutional donations, planned giving, and corporate sponsorship.
Financial Reports & Filings Annual ReportsNPR's annual report shares highlights from our work over the past year, made possible by the generosity of our community of supporters. NPR has published its annual reports since 2001.
Audited Consolidated Financial StatementsFY2021 / FY2022 / FY2023 / FY2024
The audited consolidated financial statements are presented for convenience and information purposes only. While reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the integrity of such information, the audited consolidated financial statements presented should not be relied upon. An official printed copy of audited consolidated financial statements will be provided upon request.
IRS Form 990 FilingsNPR, Inc.: FY2021 / FY2022 /
FY2023 / FY2024NPR Foundation: FY2021 / FY2022 /
FY2023 / FY2024American Coalition for Public Radio:
FY2021 / FY2022 /
FY2023 / FY2024NPR International Operations, Inc.: FY2021 / FY2022 /
FY2023 / FY2024 IRS Form 990-T FilingsNPR, Inc.: FY2021 / FY2022 / FY2023 / FY2024NPR Foundation: FY2021 / FY2022 / FY2023 / FY2024
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor