Consumer Reports calls Microsoft 'hypocritical' for stranding millions of Windows 10 PCs | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
Consumer Reports calls Microsoft 'hypocritical' for stranding millions of Windows 10 PCs
Four years ago, Microsoft declared its intention to discontinue support for some people running Windows on older PCs. That wasn't nearly enough notice, according to the consumer rights organization.
Written by
Ed Bott, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 11:06 a.m. PT
picture alliance/Contributor/picture alliance via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysCR says that Windows 10's end of support will strand millions of PC owners.It calls Microsoft's actions "hypocritical" and cites national security concerns.
CR also calls for continued free security updates.Consumer Reports (CR), the venerable consumer rights organization known for its in-depth product testing, sent a letter to Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella this week. The letter, authored by the nonprofit's policy fellow Stacey Higginbotham and director of technology policy Justin Brookman, expressed "concern about Microsoft's decision to end free ongoing support for Windows 10 next month."Also: How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for freeConsumer Reports isn't the first organization to come to the defense of the soon-to-be-orphaned Windows 10. Nearly two years ago, in October 2023, the Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) urged Microsoft to reconsider its decision, calling it "a bad deal for both users and the planet." The group warned that up to 400 million perfectly functional PCs could be discarded simply because they don't meet Windows 11's hardware requirements.PIRG issued a new plea this week, bringing together a group of consumer and environmental organizations, including the European Right to Repair coalition, iFixit, and Consumer Reports.In its letter, CR argues on behalf of its 5 million members that Microsoft's decision "will strand millions of consumers who have computers that are incompatible with Windows 11, and force them to pay $30 for a one-year extension of support, spend hundreds on a new Windows 11-capable computer, or do nothing and see the security and functionality of their computer degrade over time." And this isn't just a consumer issue: Having hundreds of millions of unprotected PCs that can be commandeered for attacks on other entities is a risk to national security.Also: Windows 11 should have been an easy upgrade - Microsoft chose to unleash chaos on us insteadThe group cites a member survey from earlier this year, covering more than 100,000 laptop and desktop computer owners. "More than 95% of all laptop and desktop computers purchased since the beginning of 2019 and owned for no more than five years were still in use," they reported. Those members tend to keep their Windows-based computers for a long time, the group concluded. "[I]t's clear that consumers purchased machines before Microsoft announced the hardware needs for Windows 11, expecting to be able to operate them through the next Microsoft OS transition."The letter's authors also spotlight a fundamental contradiction in Microsoft's plans. "Arguing that Windows 11 is an essential upgrade to boost cybersecurity while also leaving hundreds of millions of machines more vulnerable to cyber attacks is hypocritical." The decision to offer extended security updates for one year is also consumer-hostile, they contend, with customers forced to pay $30 to preserve their machine's security, or use unrelated Microsoft products and services "just so Microsoft can eke out a bit of market share over competitors."Also: How to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026The CR letter echoes many of my own criticisms -- indeed, a footnote cites ZDNET in discussing Microsoft's longstanding compatibility policies. Here's what I wrote earlier this year:That's why it was such a rude shock when Microsoft released Windows 11 in 2021 with a set of unexpectedly rigid hardware restrictions. The requirements were so severe that they blocked upgrades even on PCs that had been purchased new only two or three years before Windows 11 was released. That effectively reduced the support lifecycle to well under 10 years for hundreds of millions of PCs designed and built between 2016 and 2019.If you felt like you'd just had the rug pulled out from under you by someone in Redmond, well, you're not alone.After all that, the group is making a fairly modest request. "Consumer Reports asks Microsoft to extend security updates for free to all users who are unable to update their machine while also working to entice more people to get off Windows 10. ... [W]e also ask that Microsoft create a partnership to provide recycling of those machines to consumers abandoning their hardware."Also: Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anywayThis probably isn't the publicity that Microsoft wants as it urges its customers to buy a new Windows 11 PC. The Consumer Reports brand is also likely to break through to mainstream media in a way that more technical organizations can't.Will this be enough to change hearts and minds in Redmond? I'm skeptical, but Consumer Reports has a lot more clout than I do, so we'll see. I've asked Microsoft for comment and will update this post if and when I hear from them.Windows
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
40+ Windows keyboard shortcuts that effectively improved my work productivity
Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux
- here are my top 5 ways
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
40+ Windows keyboard shortcuts that effectively improved my work productivity
Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux
- here are my top 5 ways
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
This free tool installs Windows 11 on unsupported PCs - without any bloatware
Get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026: 2 ways
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use