Undervolting is the easiest way to improve GPU performance
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Undervolting your GPU can actually improve performance
Credit: Jeff Geerling
By
Ty Sherback
Published 4 days ago
His love of PCs and their components was born out of trying to squeeze every ounce of performance out of the family computer. Tinkering with his own build at age 10 turned into building PCs for friends and family, fostering a passion that would ultimately take shape as a career path.
Besides being the first call for tech support for those close to him, Ty is a computer science student, with his focus being cloud computing and networking. He also competed in semi-pro Counter-Strike for 8 years, making him intimately familiar with everything to do with peripherals.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When we consider performance-enhancing techniques outside buying brand-new hardware, most people probably think of things like improving cooling, increasing the power limit or overclocking. While these are absolutely valid ways to squeeze more performance out of a component like your graphics card, there's another, perhaps counterintuative, way to do that, and that's through undervolting.
Why undervolt?
Wouldn't you want more power, not less?
As PC enthuasiasts, we associate more power with higher clock speeds, and while it is true that you can achieve more performance through balancing these two things, modern GPUs are often running with core voltages much higher than they otherwise need. Most GPUs from the last dozen generations or so will automatically chase the highest stable frequency inside a certain range. Your card is always calculating where it is within a certain temperature and power range, and adjusts clocks based on that. If it begins to touch the power limit, or hotspot temps start to creep upward, the algorithm adjusts for this, and will decrease clock speed. This is where undervolting comes in. Undervolting is the practice of decreasing core voltage while maintaining clock speed. The keen among you may have already seen where this is going.
More work with less voltage
It's possible with most GPUs
At stock, your GPU will pull a specific amount of power from both the PCIe socket and the auxiliary power in the form of 12VHP or 6-pin cables. When it needs more power, it will request more, but only up to a certain limit. Manufacturers will set these stock voltages based on what is stable for all the chips they've tested, and this estimate is usually on the higher end for stability's sake. There is a floor here, and once you reach it, you might not crash and burn like you would with pushing higher voltages, but you'll still crash all the same. Decreasing this voltage will allow your GPU to maintain its boost clock for longer because it's not running into thermal limits. Adjusting the power limit alongside the core voltage will allow the boost algorithm to take further advantage of the extra headroom, potentially even increasing clock speeds. Think about it like this: if every MHz has a "cost" of power associated with it, all undervolting does is decrease the cost, allowing your GPU to push clocks higher all on its own.
Don't knock the knock-on effects
Thermals and noise are much better
The "side effects" of undervolting are just as valuable and the primary effect of better performance. Lower thermals mean less overall heat being radiated onto other components, especially memory, which flank the GPU core. This opens up the potential for higher VRAM frequencies as well as increased longevity for other components on the board. Lower temperatures, of course, also means lower noise. Your GPU fans don't have to spin up to as high of an RPM because there's just not as much heat to dissipate. This trickles down to everything in your system, because your GPU is one of, if not, the biggest heat producer in your rig.
There's a very fine line of stability
Walking that line is crucial
Briefly, I mentioned that there's a floor associated with your GPU voltage. It's not the same as pumping too much through your GPU core—there's no potential for serious harm like there is with overclocking, but when undervolting, you'll be walking that same, fine line with stability. The best way to test if your undervolt is stable is by putting the GPU under both a synthetic load (like FurMark or a 3DMark benchmark) and a real load. Different types of games and applications stress your GPU in different ways, so it's important to get a gauge on stability for all different kinds of loads, for extended periods of time. Some GPUs within a certain spec will have different tolerances for undervolting than others, even within the same SKU of card. Just like with overclocking, not every RX 9070 XT is created equal, and not even every NITRO+ Sapphire card is. Some will take to lower voltages better than others, so your mileage may vary.
Undervolting is an easy way to squeeze out some extra performance
While we associate lower voltages with lower performance, when it comes to deliberately undervolting a GPU, you can actually improve performance significantly, depending on the card itself. Decreasing voltage while maintaining the same (or increasing) clock speeds gives more consistent performance while also decreasing temperatures and noise.
GPU
Radeon
Nvidia
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
5 must-use extensions for Raycast
6 days ago
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
6 days ago
6 silent PC hacks that don't hurt your performance
5 days ago
3 reasons a Dev Drive might be the perfect addition to your Windows install
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Someone tried to host a web server inside Portal 2, and it actually works
This free, open-source Spotify alternative you can make with your friends
This is the easiest way to run Docker on Windows without losing your mind
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.