Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information | Netflix Help Center
Help Center
Join Netflix
Sign In
Help Center
Back to Help Home
Print
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), provides California residents rights to opt-out of “sale” and “sharing”. If you are a resident of other US states that give you rights to opt out of “sale," “sharing” and/or use of personal information for “targeted advertising”, you may also find this information helpful. Netflix’s use of personal information to display Advertisements as part of an ad-supported subscription plan and for Netflix’s marketing activities on third-party services may constitute a “sale," “sharing” and/or “targeted advertising” under the US State Privacy Laws. Please visit the Netflix Privacy Statement to learn more. Opt out of Sale and Sharing/Targeted Advertising (Non Members) Click Here and turn off Advertising CookiesYou may also use the settings on your browser, devices or apps to opt out of cookies. If you opt out of advertising cookies, you may still see Netflix marketing messages promoting the Netflix service or Netflix content, but they will not be based on information collected from advertising cookies.Opt out of Sale and Sharing/Targeted Advertising (Netflix Members)Netflix members can exercise their opt out rights by following one of the two options below: Option 1: Email Netflix Please contact privacy@netflix.com from the email address used to sign in to your Netflix account with the subject line “Do Not Sell Share”. Option 2: Signing into your Netflix accountYou can exercise your opt-out choices by:Signing into the Netflix service from the web or a mobile device and selecting a profile.Go to the “Account” section, select a profile, and go to “Privacy and data settings.” The controls you see will vary depending on your subscription plan.Turn off “Matched Identifier Communications.”If you are on an ad-supported subscription plan, also turn off “Behavioral Advertising.” Alternatively, you can click “opt out of all”. If you want to apply these choices to all profiles on your Netflix account, from the primary profile, click on “opt all profiles out of all.”When you choose to opt out, you will still see Advertisements, but they will not be behavioral advertisements. Similarly, once you opt out, you will still receive other Netflix marketing messages but we will not use your information for Matched Identifier Communications.If you are not signed in or not a Netflix member, when you access sites like www.netflix.com, we do not associate your activity with a Netflix member account. As a result, our ability to identify you is limited. You can find more details about our use of personal information as well as information about choices and controls available to you such as choices regarding cookies and similar technologies by visiting https://help.netflix.com/node/100637. Global Privacy Control (GPC)/ Universal Opt-out What is it? Under certain US State Privacy Laws, businesses must respect opt-out signals received through a user selected web browser control indicating their choice to opt out of the sale, sharing, or use of personal information for targeted advertising, as specified by applicable law. The platforms and methods for sending and interpreting such a signal are not standardized and are currently evolving, with the only widely-recognized such signal being the Global Privacy Control (GPC).Recognizing a GPC Signal Where required by applicable law, we have implemented methods to recognize and respond to a GPC signal on our service. Response to a GPC Signal How we respond to a GPC signal depends on whether you are signed in to the Netflix service, whether you are a member and the subscription plan you’ve chosen. It also depends on your general geographic location (i.e., state, country). Signed In Members If you log into the Netflix service on our website and access a Netflix profile from a web browser sending a recognized GPC signal, where required by applicable law, we will opt out that profile from Matched Identifier Communications and Behavioral Advertising (for profiles on an account that is part of our ad-supported subscription plan). In certain states where it is required by applicable law, if you access the primary profile associated with your Netflix account, these actions will apply to all profiles (we do not engage in behavioral advertising on Kids profiles).Signed Out Members/Non-Members If you are a Netflix member but are either signed out or not actively accessing a Netflix profile to stream, or are not a Netflix member, and access netflix.com or netflix.com/tudum through a web browser sending a recognized GPC Signal, where required by applicable law, we will opt you out of setting Advertising Cookies on that browser/device. If you access a Netflix site from a different browser or from the same browser on a different device, you will need to send a GPC signal from that browser to opt out again.
Select your preferred language:
Select a language
English
Spanish (Latin America)
Terms of Use
Privacy
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Ad Choices
Cookie Preferences
Corporate Information