Judge orders Trump to restore $500 million in grant funding to UCLA : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Judge orders Trump to restore $500 million in grant funding to UCLA A federal judge has ordered the Trump administration to restore $500 million in federal grant funding that it froze at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Education
Judge orders Trump administration to restore $500 million in grant funding to UCLA
September 23, 20251:23 AM ET
By
The Associated Press
Students walk past Royce Hall at the UCLA campus in Los Angeles on Aug. 15, 2024.
Damian Dovarganes/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Damian Dovarganes/AP
LOS ANGELES — A federal judge has ordered the Trump administration to restore $500 million in federal grant funding that it froze at the University of California, Los Angeles. U.S. District Judge Rita Lin in San Francisco granted a preliminary injunction on Monday, saying the government likely violated the Administrative Procedure Act, which requires specific procedures and explanations for federal funding cuts. Instead, the government informed UCLA in generalized form letters that multiple grants from various agencies were being suspended but offered no specific details. In August, UCLA announced that the Trump administration had suspended $584 million in federal grants over allegations of civil rights violations related to antisemitism and affirmative action.
Sponsor Message
Up First from NPR
Casualties of Trump's War on Higher Ed
Lin issued a ruling later that month that resulted in $81 million in grants from the National Science Foundation being restored to UCLA. She ruled that those cuts had violated a June preliminary injunction where she ordered the National Science Foundation to restore dozens of grants that it had terminated at the University of California, which operates 10 campuses across the state. The White House did not immediately respond to an email from The Associated Press requesting comment on Monday's ruling. The Trump administration has used its control of federal funding to push for reforms at elite colleges that the president decries as overrun by liberalism and antisemitism. The administration also has launched investigations into diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, saying they discriminate against white and Asian American students. Two Ivy League institutions, Columbia and Brown, struck deals to preserve funding that was held up by the Trump administration over similar claims that they had not done enough to respond to campus antisemitism. In the case of Harvard, which pushed back with a lawsuit over cuts to its funding, a federal judge in early September ruled the funding freeze amounted to illegal retaliation for Harvard's rejection of the Trump administration's demands.
Education
These programs help poor students with college. Trump wants to pull the funding
The Trump administration had proposed to settle its investigation into UCLA through a $1 billion payment from the institution. Democratic California Gov. Gavin Newsom has called it an extortion attempt. UCLA has said that such a large payment would "devastate" the institution. Monday's ruling concerns hundreds of medical research grants from the National Institutes of Health that include studies into Parkinson's disease treatment, cancer recovery, cell regeneration in nerves and other areas that campus leaders argue are pivotal for improving the health of Americans.
research
university education
Donald Trump
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor