Democrat Xp Lee wins special election to fill seat of slain Minnesota state Rep. Melissa Hortman - CBS Minnesota
Latest
U.S.
Comey Indicted
TikTok Deal
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Minnesota
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
WCCO Shows & Specials
All News
Twin Cities News
Greater Minnesota News
Wisconsin News
WCCO Investigates
Community Journalism
Politics
Immigration
Crime
Health
Your Money
Good Question
Finding Minnesota
NEXT Weather
Live Radar
Closings & Delays
Weather Watcher Network
Latest Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Vikings
Twins
Timberwolves
Lynx
Wild
United FC
Aurora FC
Gophers
High School Sports Rally
State Fair
Good Question
Finding Minnesota
WCCO Investigates
Mental Health Matters
Talking Points
On the Edge
Vietnam 50 Years Later
Footprint to Murder
Home for the Holidays
Savor Asia
Station Info
WCCO-TV News Team
Links & Numbers
Contests & Promotions
Galleries
WCCO-TV Jobs
Download WCCO's App
Advertise
Memorials
Watch CBS News
Politics
Democrat Xp Lee wins special election to fill seat of slain Minnesota state Rep. Melissa Hortman
Updated on:
September 16, 2025 / 10:22 PM CDT
/ CBS/AP
Minnesota House returns to tie after special election
Minnesota House returns to tie after special election
00:35
Democrat Xp Lee won a special election on Tuesday for a seat previously held by the late Minnesota state Rep. Melissa Hortman, who was assassinated in June, and in the process restored a tie in the Minnesota House.Lee won the seat over Republican Ruth Bittner with 61% of the vote.
Xp Lee, Democratic candidate for Minnesota house district 34B, knocks on doors during campaigning in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, on Sept. 11, 2025.
Mark Vancleave / AP
The election to replace Hortman, a former Minnesota House speaker, took place about three months after she and her husband were gunned down in their home by a man impersonating a police officer in Brooklyn Park, a suburb northwest of Minneapolis. State Sen. John Hoffman and his wife Yvette also were shot in their home, but survived.Vance Boelter, 57, faces federal and state murder, attempted murder and other charges in the June 14 attacks.Tuesday's special election between Lee and Bittner also followed another act of political violence, the assassination of conservative activist Charlie Kirk in Utah last Wednesday. The shootings have been a concern among voters in the district — and for both candidates.
Lee said he wants to calm the "charged atmosphere" in the wake of Kirk's death.Bittner said the violence briefly gave her pause about running for office, but she concluded that "there's no way to solve this problem if we shrink back in fear."Lee, a former Brooklyn Park City Council member, easily won a three-way Democratic primary in August. Bittner, a real estate agent, was the sole Republican on the primary ballot for the seat in the heavily Democratic district."This victory is my 'thank you' to this community for everything it has given me and my family. Every family in Minnesota deserves the opportunities I've had. Right now, those opportunities are getting too far out of reach. I'm going to do everything I can to make a brighter future a reality for all of us,"  Lee said in a statement on his victory.
Lee's win restores a 67-67 tie and preserves a power-sharing deal that existed for most of the 2025 legislative session after the 2024 elections cost House Democrats their majority. Hortman brokered that agreement, which ended Democrats' three-week boycott. Under the deal, she agreed to end her six-year tenure as speaker and let Republican Lisa Demuth take the position. Hortman then took the title speaker emerita. Most legislative committees became evenly split between Republican and Democratic members, with co-chairs from each party.The tie in the House meant some level of bipartisan agreement was required to pass anything in this year's session.An upset by Bittner would have given Republicans control of the House for the first time since 2018, and put them in an even stronger position to force concessions from Democratic Gov. Tim Walz and a Senate that Democrats control by only one vote. Walz on Tuesday announced his campaign for a third consecutive term, something no governor in state history has achieved.Nearly three months after Hortman's killing, the House Democrats chose Rep. Zack Stephenson as her successor to lead the caucus. Stephenson was Hortman's campaign manager in 2004, and she became his mentor and friend in the ensuing years. He was first elected to the Legislature in 2018.Two more special elections will be held Nov. 4 in a pair of Minnesota Senate districts.One is to fill the seat vacated by Democratic Sen. Nicole Mitchell, of the St. Paul suburb of Woodbury. She resigned in July after she was convicted of burglarizing her estranged stepmother's home. The other is for the seat of Republican Sen. Bruce Anderson, of the Minneapolis exurb of Buffalo, who died in July.
Given that the districts are heavily Democratic and heavily Republican, respectively, control of the Senate isn't expected to change. But the Democratic candidate for Mitchell's seat is state Rep. Amanda Hemmingsen-Jaeger, of Woodbury. If she wins, the governor will have to call another special election to fill her House seat.View the results below.
More from CBS News
Tragedies test the resilience of faith in Minnesota
After 40 years in Minn. Legislature, Sen. Ann Rest reflects on career
Sen. Omar Fateh's Minneapolis campaign office vandalized
Republican Rep. Tom Tiffany enters Wisconsin governor race
Politics
Minnesota Legislature
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Tragedies test the resilience of faith in Minnesota
After 40 years in Minn. Legislature, Sen. Ann Rest reflects on career
Sen. Omar Fateh's Minneapolis campaign office vandalized
Republican Rep. Tom Tiffany enters Wisconsin governor race
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
NFL Week 4 Picks
CFB Week 5 What to Watch
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Minnesota
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for WCCO-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue