ESP Stock Price Quote | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Stocks
Espey Manufacturing & Electronics Corp Espey Manufacturing & Electronics Corp ESP
Morningstar Rating
Unlock
Stock XASE
Rating as of Sep 18, 2025
Download PDF
More Actions
Summary
Chart
News
Price vs Fair Value
Sustainability
Trailing Returns
Key Metrics
Financials
Valuation
Dividends
Ownership
Executive
$45.99 +2.39
(5.48%)
View Full Chart
As of Sep 19, 2025, 8:00:10 PM Delayed Price Post-Trading:
$45.99 0.00
About Quantitative Ratings
Morningstar Quantitative Ratings for Stocks are generated using an algorithm that compares companies that are
not under analyst coverage to peer companies that do receive analyst-driven ratings. Companies with quantitative
ratings are not formally covered by a Morningstar analyst, but are statistically matched to analyst-rated
companies, allowing our models to calculate a quantitative moat, fair value, and uncertainty rating.
Price vs Fair Value
View History
ESP is trading within a range we consider fairly valued.
Price
$44.60
Sep 18, 2025
Fair Value
$53.93
Sep 13, 2025
Uncertainty
High
1-Star Price $42.495-Star Price $82.64Economic Moat ZjwlkCapital Allocation —
Trading Information
Previous Close Price $43.60 Day Range $41.27–45.99
52-Week Range $22.50–55.00
Bid/Ask $43.00
/
$45.99 Shares Outstanding 2.83M Market Cap $130.22M Volume/Avg 85,485
/
31,016
Key Statistics
Price/Earnings (Normalized) 15.23Price/Sales 2.82Dividend Yield (Trailing) 2.17%Dividend Yield (Forward) 2.17%Total Yield 2.17%
Company Profile
Espey Manufacturing & Electronics Corp is a power electronics design and OEM manufacturing company delivering products for military and severe environment applications. Its products include power supplies, power converters, filters, power transformers, magnetic components, power distribution equipment, UPS systems, and antennas. The applications of these products include AC and DC locomotives, shipboard power, shipboard radar, airborne power, ground-based radar, and ground mobile power. Espey services include design and development to specification, build to specifications provided by the customer, build to print, design services, design studies, environmental testing services, metal fabrication, painting services, and development of automatic testing equipment.
Show More
Sector IndustrialsIndustry Electrical Equipment & PartsStock Style Box Small CoreTotal Number of Employees 148Website https://www.espey.com
Valuation
View More
Metric
ESP
Price/Earnings (Normalized) 15.23Price/Book Value 2.40Price/Sales 2.82Price/Cash Flow 13.40
Price/Earnings
ESP
Financial Strength
Metric
ESP
Quick Ratio 1.69Current Ratio 2.54Interest Coverage —
Quick Ratio
ESP
Profitability
Metric
ESP
Return on Assets (Normalized) —Return on Equity (Normalized) —Return on Invested Capital (Normalized) —
Return on Assets
ESP
Electrical Equipment & Parts Industry Comparables
Screen With Investor
1-Day Chart
Name
Price
Morningstar Rating for Stocks
Capital Allocation
Economic Moat
Market Cap
Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd ADR
CYATY
—Bkxvf$238B ABB Ltd
ABLZF
—Lsxwz$129B ABB Ltd ADR
ABBNY
GlryrdwlHswh$129B Vertiv Holdings Co Class A
VRT
PfnhbnylmVmvvdg$54B Hubbell Inc
HUBB
MyjzfblrVmfn$23B Bloom Energy Corp Class A
BE
DfstnpxgRptwr$19B nVent Electric PLC
NVT
HwplfbccfQcwxhk$16B Acuity Inc
AYI
VdqkcxnsGqckyx$11B Hayward Holdings Inc
HAYW
RgmhqstBqqsf$3B Plug Power Inc
PLUG
BtqhhZdhf$2B
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility