This beloved military sim with 91% positive reviews is just $3 on Steam right now
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This beloved military sim with 91% positive reviews is just $3 on Steam right now
By
Simon Batt
Published 6 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
I've clocked my fair share of hours into Arma 3 with my friends. It may be 12 years old, but it's one of the more in-depth military simulators I've ever played. In fact, with so many years under its belt, its community has been hard at work developing mods and unique experiences that make it better than ever before. And yes, it is 12 years old. In fact, it has only just reached 12 years old, as the developers, Bohemia Interactive, have just celebrated its release anniversary. The best part is that we're all getting a gift for the game's birthday, as the devs have knocked the price down all the way to $3. An absolute steal, if you ask me.
Arma 3 is just $3 on Steam until September 25th
If you've never heard of Arma 3, it's a military simulator that's best played with friends or on a community server. The experience you'll have hugely depends on the server you pick; when I played with my friends, the server would automatically spawn enemies in a town and task us with clearing them out. Given how it's a military sim, it's not as easy as picking up a big gun, walking into the town, and fighting everyone off; in fact, we spent a lot of time on the outskirts trying to pick people off while hiding behind whatever cover we could find. Here's how the devs describe the game:
Experience true combat gameplay in a massive military sandbox. Deploying a wide variety of single- and multiplayer content, over 20 vehicles and 40 weapons, and limitless opportunities for content creation, this is the PC’s premier military game. Authentic, diverse, open - Arma 3 sends you to war.
Defeat your enemy on a richly detailed, open-world battlefield – stretching over 290 km² of Mediterranean island terrain. From expansive cities to rolling hills, whether steamrolling your tank across the dusty plains, flying a transport helicopter over the dense forests, or waging asymmetric warfare from the rocky hills, the islands of Altis and Stratis are dynamic worlds, which lend themselves to the most varied engagements in gaming.
If you want to give it a try yourself, it's currently enjoying its 12th anniversary with a 90% discount on Steam. There are several different editions available with varying discounts, but the one you'll want to check out is the base game edition, which is currently only $3 until September 25th. And if you need any more convincing, you may be interested to hear that the game's predecessor, Arma 2, was the foundation for a mod that would eventually become DayZ.
10/10
Arma 3
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
FPS
Tactical
Systems
Released
September 12, 2013
ESRB
m
Developer(s)
Bohemia Interactive
Publisher(s)
Bohemia Interactive
Engine
real virtuallity
Multiplayer
Local Multiplayer
Franchise
Arma
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Experience true combat gameplay in a massive military sandbox. Deploying a wide variety of single- and multiplayer content, over 20 vehicles and 40 weapons, and limitless opportunities for content creation, this is the PC’s premier military game. Authentic, diverse, open - Arma 3 sends you to war.
Defeat your enemy on a richly detailed, open-world battlefield – stretching over 290 km² of Mediterranean island terrain. From expansive cities to rolling hills, whether steamrolling your tank across the dusty plains, flying a transport helicopter over the dense forests, or waging asymmetric warfare from the rocky hills, the islands of Altis and Stratis are dynamic worlds, which lend themselves to the most varied engagements in gaming.
Head into combat on foot, drive armored vehicles, or take to the skies in helicopters and jets. Conduct a combined arms attack over air, land, and sea, with over 20 vehicles to drive and pilot, 40+ weapons to pick from, customizable loadouts with short- and long-distance attachments, and various types of gear to suit your needs on the battlefield. With a massive arsenal at your disposal, Arma 3 moves you into a world of tactical opportunities.
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
7 days ago
Perplexity’s new browser’s best feature is its smart assistant — here’s exactly how I use it
6 days ago
PowerToys is amazing, but it could be even better with these 5 features
7 days ago
Gmail's new time-saving feature is something I've wanted added for years by now
7 days ago
Microsoft begins tucking Windows 10 into bed as its end-of-support date looms
More from our brands
Destiny 2: Arms Week, Explained
30 Best Co-Op Games On Steam (April 2025)
Battlefield 6 Pre-Order Guide: Editions, Prices, Bonuses, And More
New RPG is Free on Steam for Limited Time
Classic Tactical Shooter Gets Multithreading Update After 12 Years
This week’s big Steam sale is a great time to dive into Paradox’s grand strategy games
Arma Reforger: Best Mods
Today's best deals
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
2 hours ago
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
13 hours ago
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 beginner-friendly tips to help you tune your RAM better than EXPO or XMP
Stop paying for useless marketing numbers attached to your PC peripherals
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.