DirecTV MySports Review: Gives Sports Fans the Basics, but Gets You to the Action Fast - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
DirecTV MySports Review: Gives Sports Fans the Basics, but Gets You to the Action Fast
Bundled with ESPN Unlimited, the slim package is competitively priced if you don't need RSNs.
Article updated on September 25, 2025 at 4:07 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Kourtnee Jackson
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
Credentials Though Kourtnee hasn't won any journalism awards yet, she's been a Netflix streaming subscriber since 2012 and knows the magic of its hidden codes.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
7.5/ 10
SCORE DirecTV MySports
$70 at DirecTV
Pros
Affordable price
Painless navigation to sports content
Ability to follow teams
Multiview mix channels
Cons
No RSNs included
Big Four local stations only in 50 markets
Table of Contents
DirecTV MySports Review: Gives Sports Fans the Basics, but Gets You to the Action Fast
What can you watch on DirecTV's MySports package
DirecTV My Sports vs. Fubo Sports, Fox One, Xfinity Sports & News
What it's like to use MySports
Should you get DirecTV MySports?
DirecTV’s streaming packages have been around in some shape or form since 2016, and this year, the offerings have expanded to include both its signature plans and new Genre Packs. Slimmed down in terms of channel lineups and price, Genre Packs are an alternative to the pricier signature packages, which have more channels but are also getting a price hike in October. With the NFL season here and the NBA season starting next month, you may be shopping around for a budget-friendly streaming option like DirecTV MySports.The MySports Genre Pack arrived in January for $70 per month. Designed for viewers who want to watch live sporting events like the US Open, the NBA, the WNBA and college football, the package's channel roster currently includes ESPN, FS1, NBA TV and local CBS, NBC, Fox and ABC affiliate stations in select markets. An ESPN Unlimited subscription is thrown in for good measure, too. With "sports" in the name, you could be thinking that's all there is, but the service also has a few lifestyle, news and entertainment channels. Because it's what's considered a skinny bundle (fewer channels, less money), I wouldn't directly compare this with a live TV streaming service like YouTube TV or Fubo, but it's a premium offering that's more in line with Sling TV and heavy on the sports. What can you watch on DirecTV's MySports packageThe MySports package comes with more than 30 live channels geared toward sports programming (including MMA and poker), but there’s also general entertainment and news content. Customers can stream TV shows on TNT, Bravo, Tastemade and Court TV, as well as a host of FAST channels like 50 Cent Action and Tiny House Nation. You also get a subscription to ESPN Unlimited at no extra cost, unlimited DVR and access to MyFree DirecTV, the streamer’s free platform for on-demand and live news, movies and shows. The channels: Though the selection is smaller, there are standard channels that are part of MySports. Watch BIG Ten, TBS, USA, FS1, FS2, NBA Network, MLB Network, ESPN, ESPNU, ESPN2, ESPN News and more. This August, DirecTV added Court Channels for additional US Open coverage. You’ll also get news networks like MSNBC, CNN, CNBC and Fox News.However, your zip code determines if your channel lineup includes local stations like CBS, NBC, Fox and ABC. They’re only available in certain markets. Regional sports networks (RSNs) aren’t included with this package, so if that’s a deal-breaker for you, you can opt to purchase a Mini Pack add-on for extra channels. The MyHome Team Mini Pack costs an additional $20 per month and gives you local regional sports networks according to your ZIP code. That will bring your total monthly cost up to $90, which runs roughly the same as a basic DirecTV Signature package. That said, upgrading to one of DTV’s signature packages may be a better option. Our guide below outlines all the channels on MySports and compares them to Fox One, Xfinity Sports & News and the newly launched Fubo Sports. We’ve excluded ESPN’s flagship streaming platform because it can be bundled with these services (with the exception of Xfinity’s package). DirecTV My Sports vs. Fubo Sports, Fox One, Xfinity Sports & News undefined
DirecTV MySportsFubo SportsFox OneXfinity Sports & NewsMonthly Price $70$56$20$80-$90Top sports/news channels ACC Network, Big 10, CBS Sports Network, CNN, CNBC, DirecTV 4K, ESPN, ESPNU, ESPN2, ESPN News, Fox Business, Fox News, FS1, FS2, Golf Channel, MLB Network, MSNBC, NFL Network, NHL Network, SEC Network, TBS, TNT, TruTV, USAACC Network, Big 10, CBS Sports Network, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNews, ESPNU, Fox News, Fox Sports 4K, FS1, FS2, Fubo Sports Network, ION, NFL Network, SEC Network, Tennis ChannelLocal Fox station, Fox News, Fox Sports, Fox Weather, FS1, FS2, Fox Business, Fox Deportes, Big 10Telemundo, Univision, ACCN, Big 10, Bloomberg, CNBC, CNN, ESPN, ESPN2, Fox Business, Fox News, Fox Weather, FS1, FS2, Golf Channel, HLN, Motortrend, MSNBC, Newsmax, NewsNation, SEC, Tennis ChannelABC, CBS, NBC, Fox? Select marketsYes - ABC, CBS, Fox
No - NBCNoYesRSNs? NoNoNoYesESPN Unlimited included YesYes*Only as part of bundleNoCloud DVR UnlimitedUnlimitedUnlimited300 hours
What it's like to use MySportsDirecTV has an established track record for streaming, but the MySports platform is tailored for games. I tested it on my phone and using DirecTV's Gemini device on my smart TV. Navigation and streaming were smooth. The main side panel TV interface is where you'll find Search, Home, Guide, My Library, Sports Central, On Demand, Video Store and Apps. There are submenus within the guide menu, so when you click on Guide, you can pick All, Recent, Favorites, Sports, Kids, Movies, TV Shows, Sort by A-Z or “Jump to Day.” For sports fans, this makes it quick to navigate to all the channels actively showing content.
Homepage of MySports showing a rotation of eight channels and preview content for the selected channel. Screenshot by CNETAt the top of the TV home screen, there are eight channel icons you can scroll through and click, and they change based on the latest things you've watched. For example, when I select ESPNU from the row, the live preview window below it shows what's currently playing on that channel, and next to it is a batch of similar content streaming on other channels. Clicking on any of these screen views takes you to the channel's full screen. If it's an on-demand title, you're taken to the movie or TV show's title page. One thing to know is that if there's a channel or streaming service listed in the channel guide that you're not subscribed to in this package, you'll see offers to sign up. Moving down the home page takes you to rows of recommendations like Live TV You Might Like, Popular TV On Demand or the Top 10 movie list. The ports sections are organized, and you'll find a row for Sports: Live and Upcoming, along with Sports Talk and separate rows for football, baseball, basketball and other sports categories. There are also rows for other on-demand content.As a sports fan, you can add (or subtract) teams to follow during app setup or any other time while you're using the app. Their logos will be displayed in the Sports Central section, a centralized hub that's a click away. You can enable game notifications on each team's page, but one thing that sticks out is that DirecTV tells you where the game is airing, even if it's on a competitor like YouTube TV. Live and upcoming games are shown at the top of the Sports Central hub, and rows for each sport are displayed under your teams. Alternatively, if you click the sports submenu under Guide, all the sports channels currently airing live content will appear.
Sports Central on MySports is a hub for all things sports, including your favorite teams. Screenshot by CNETYou can pause playback during live programming, but as expected, there's no fast-forwarding or rewinding in most shows and events. It's not always the case, though. I watched a few college football games that allowed me to pause and then choose the option to start from the beginning -- with the ability to toggle to the live stream. When I streamed a live soccer match, I could pause and record, but I wasn't offered the option to restart. If you don't want to miss anything, that's where a DVR comes in handy. DVR works as expected and specifically for sports, the function will immediately record the action as you watch, but if you click on Record Options, you can choose to record a single game or each team you select during a live event. It defaults to both teams, but you can deselect one or both, or roll with recording every upcoming game for the teams you pick. In August, DirecTV added a new multiview experience to its streaming packages: Mix Channels. They're a pre-selected set of four channels that you can watch at the same time on one screen. Within MySports, there's the Sports Mix that includesESPN, ESPN2, FS1 and NBC Sports, along with League Sports Mixthat offers MLB Network, NBA TV, NFL Network and NHL Network and News Mix, which offers CNN, Fox News Channel, Fox Weather and MSNBC in multiview clusters. While the multiview feature in MySports works well on TVs, it's not available on phones -- YouTube TV and Peacock offer some multiview content for viewers streaming on their phone screens.
Multivew display on DirecTV's MySports package. Screenshot by CNETThe phone version of MySports works a little different, with three main navigation options: Watch Now, My Library and On Demand. A live program will play when you open the app, but the guide button acts as your one-click source to watch live channels, no matter which section of MySports you're in. In addition to streaming, you can use the DVR feature to record programming or watch older recordings in the phone app. However, you can't rent titles from a mobile device; you'll need the TV version to make purchases, and then you can watch them on your phone.
Three different views on the phone version of MySports: Homepage on Watch Now, channel guide and on-demand offerings. Screenshot by CNETShould you get DirecTV MySports? The price of MySports makes it an attractive package, with the added perk of getting access to ESPN Unlimited. DirecTV's streaming technology is reliable, and the app's user-friendly interface puts sports content comfortably -- and easily -- in your hands. It's a skinny package, so the channel lineup is either going to give you what you need at this price, or not enough to stream NFL, NBA, NHL, motorsports and college sports. As the company continues to add access to the Big Four broadcast networks -- NBC, ABC, CBS and Fox -- across the country, you may find this is the perfect setup for you in the absence of RSNs. If not having RSNs get a thumbs down from you, then move up to one of DirecTV's more robust Signature packages or Fubo. I like the no-nonsense pricing on MySports for cord-cutters, but if you want to check out other budget-friendly alternatives, there's Sling TV
or the new Fubo Sports (which is available in some, but not all, regions).
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
KOURTNEE JACKSON
Senior Editor Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.