Camp Mystic to reopen next year after flood deaths of girls and counselors : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Camp Mystic to reopen next year after flood deaths of girls and counselors Camp Mystic plans to reopen next summer near the site where 27 girls and counselors died in a July flood.
National
Camp Mystic plans to reopen in Texas next summer, a year after floods killed 27
September 23, 202511:48 PM ET
By
The Associated Press
Campers belongings sit outside one of Camp Mystic's cabins near the Guadalupe River, July 7, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area.
Eli Hartman/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Eli Hartman/AP
Camp Mystic plans to reopen next summer near the site where 27 girls and counselors died in a July flood. The campers and counselors were swept to their deaths when fast-rising floodwaters of the Guadalupe River roared through the girls' summer camp in a low-lying area known as flash flood alley. All told, the destructive flooding in Texas on the Fourth of July killed at least 136 people and washed away homes and vehicles.
Simon Says
Opinion: Remembering the flood victims of Camp Mystic
In an email sent Monday to the families of the victims, the camp said when it reopens, its planning and procedures will follow the "requirements of the camp safety legislation you bravely championed." About an hour later, the camp sent an email to the rest of the families announcing the decision. The camp also announced that it will build a memorial to the girls who died in the flooding. "In the memorial's design, we will strive to capture the beauty, kindness and grace they all shared, while focusing on the joy they carried and will always inspire in us all," the email said.
Sponsor Message
Investigations
Camp Mystic asked to remove buildings from government flood maps despite risk
Camp Mystic parents successfully pushed for Texas to pass bills aimed at preventing similar tragedies. The measures aim to improve the safety of children's camps by prohibiting cabins in dangerous parts of flood zones and requiring camp operators to develop detailed emergency plans, to train workers and to install and maintain emergency warning systems. One allocates $240 million from the state's rainy day fund for disaster relief, along with money for warning sirens and improved weather forecasting. "It will hurt my family forever that, for reasons I still do not know, these protections were not in place nor thought out thoroughly for my daughter and the rest of the girls here," he said. "Please pass this bill, protect our kids and do not let their deaths be in vain."
National
After Texas flood, former camper reflects on Camp Mystic's traditions and loss
The announcement means that Camp Mystic Cypress Lake, a sister site that opened to campers in 2020, will reopen next summer. But the 99-year-old Camp Mystic Guadalupe was too damaged to open next summer, according to the camp. The email said leaders are "working with engineers and other experts to determine how we will implement the changes required" under the newly passed bills.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor