Best early Amazon Prime Day deals under $25 in 2025: My favorite cheap sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Best Amazon Prime Day deals under $25: I'm tracking over 12 of my favorite discounts before October
October Prime Day is coming soon. These are my favorite under $25 deals live now.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 9:29 a.m. PT
Lululook Bluetooth Wallet Tracker Card | for $21 (save $6)
Lululook Bluetooth Wallet Tracker Card
for $21 (save $6)
View now View at Amazon Moft MagSafe Wallet and Stand | for $25 (save $5)
Moft MagSafe Wallet and Stand
for $25 (save $5)
View now View at Amazon Amazon Fire TV Stick HD | for $25 (save $10)
Amazon Fire TV Stick HD
for $25 (save $10)
View now View at Amazon Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank | for $24 (save $6)
Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank
for $24 (save $6)
View now View at Amazon Anker Nano 30W Charger + USB-C Cord | for $17 (save $6)
Anker Nano 30W Charger + USB-C Cord
for $17 (save $6)
View now View at Amazon
Skullcandy Jib In-Ear Wired Earbuds | for $7 (save $3)
Skullcandy Jib In-Ear Wired Earbuds
for $7 (save $3)
View now View at Best Buy Hiearcool 7-in-1 USB-C Hub | for $17 (save $3)
Hiearcool 7-in-1 USB-C Hub
for $17 (save $3)
View now View at Amazon Etekcity Luggage Scale | Starting at $11
Etekcity Luggage Scale
Starting at $11
View now View at Amazon Loop Quiet 2 Earplugs | for $21 (save $7)
Loop Quiet 2 Earplugs
for $21 (save $7)
View now View at Amazon ESR Aura MagSafe Wallet and Stand | Starting at $21
ESR Aura MagSafe Wallet and Stand
Starting at $21
View now View at Amazon
Show more (5 items)
It's official: Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale will return Oct. 7-8. The sale, more popularly known as October Prime Day, is one of the first to kick off the holiday shopping season. You're sure to see discounts on plenty of items, including dozens of gadgets and trinkets that won't break the bank. Also: Everything you need to know about Prime Big Deal DaysI cover deals 24/7, and I know a thing or two about finding the best offers to share with you. Amazon and competing retailers tend to inflate prices to make deals and discounts look greater than they are. That's why I've vetted and curated these deals, featuring ZDNET-tested and recommended products, plus some of my own personal selections you can't find anywhere else. Here are my favorite picks for the best budget-friendly early October Prime Day deals -- primarily under $25. Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Find Prime Day dealsBest deals under $25 for Prime Day 2025
Lululook Bluetooth Wallet Tracker Card for $21 (save $6)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $21Original price: $27Our expert says this is great for Android and Apple users alike and is a slimmer dupe of Apple's AirTag.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Moft MagSafe Wallet and Stand for $25 (save $5)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
Current price: $25Original price: $30This wallet is one of my favorite wallet options for minimal carry, and I gift it to everyone I know. Select colors are on sale now.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Fire TV Stick HD for $25 (save $10)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $25Original price: $35Simplify your streaming with this Amazon Fire TV Stick for 29% off.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank for $24 (save $6)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
Current price: $24Original price: $30Anker's Nano Power Bank features a foldable USB-C and a small form factor that's perfect for those on the go.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker Nano 30W Charger + USB-C Cord for $17 (save $6)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $17Original pirce: $23Now is a great time to nab a new USB-C cable and block for under $25.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Skullcandy Jib In-Ear Wired Earbuds for $7 (save $3)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
Current price: $7Original price: $10I've been using these earbuds since college, and they're still my go-to pick for no fuss audio.
Show more
View now at Best Buy
Hiearcool 7-in-1 USB-C Hub for $17 (save $3)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
Current price: $17Original price: $20I've been using this USB-C docking hub since college, and it's an affordable, go-to option.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Etekcity Luggage Scale Starting at $11
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
This luggage scale isn't on sale yet, but it starts at only $11 and is my personal recommendation if you're a frequent traveler.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Loop Quiet 2 Earplugs for $21 (save $7)
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
Current price: $21Original price: $28Did you know you can drown out the noise for under $25? ZDNET reviewer Nina Raemont has tested other Loop earplug products and remains impressed with them.
Show more
View now at Amazon
ESR Aura MagSafe Wallet and Stand Starting at $21
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
The ESR Aura wallet is our best MagSafe wallet overall, and while it goes on and off sale frequently, it's regularly under $25 anyway.
Show more
View now at Amazon
More October Prime Day deals under $25 Pure Enrichment XL Heating Pad: $38 (save $2): This is over $25, but it's a solid, oversized heating pad. I bought this last year during October Prime Day, and it's held up great, and it will likely drop in price for the event. LC-Dolida Wireless CarPlay Adapter: Bring wireless play to any vehicle with this auto adapter for over half off. Citymore Bluetooth Wallet Tracker Card: $15 (save $15): This wallet tracker card is thin enough to slide into your wallet to add bluetooth tracking like an AirTag. Plus, it's half off. Cable Management Box Kit: $21 (save $4): I personally recommend this affordable cable management box for storing unsightly cords and keeping them contained. I have one under my desk and it's helped keep my curious cat out of the cables, too. Travel Inspiria Luggage Scale: $9 (save $4): This luggage tag is one of Amazon's best sellers, and it's under $10 now. AirPods Cleaner Tool: $7 (save $2): This is the only tool I use to clean my AirPods Pro 2 earbuds, and it's super compact, too. GhostCover Keyboard Protector for MacBooks: $13: I should've had this on my MacBook Pro keyboard from the start because it keeps fingerprint oil off my keys and is easy to clean. Kindle Remote Control: $10 (save $3): Expert Maria Diaz loves this page turner for her Kindle. Livho Bluelight Glasses 2-Pack: $14 (save $3): Block out the blue light for under $20 right now (these made it into my own cart). Tapo TP-Link Indoor Camera: $16 (save $9): Keep a watchful eye on a furry friend or your home with this affordable camera.When is October Prime Day 2025? October Prime Day returns on Tuesday, Oct. 7, through Wednesday, Oct. 8. Are deals really cheaper on Prime Day? The legitimacy of Prime Day is a hotly debated topic every year. Basically, Prime Day does have some legit deals, usually on flagship Amazon products like Fire TVs, Echo devices, Kindles, and more. However, the best way to ensure you're getting an actually deal is to prepare to shop for offers and use price tracking tools to make sure you don't fall victim to brands marking up items to "discount" them later. Luckily, these offers are all under $25, so they won't be breaking the bank -- even if they do end up being an impulse purchase or sweet treat (I'm not judging). How did we choose these October Prime Day deals?ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops. We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
The best Amazon deals right now
Verizon will give you an iPhone 17 Pro free with trade-in right now
Buy Meta Ray-Ban smart glasses for $76 off - here are the deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
The best Amazon deals right now
Verizon will give you an iPhone 17 Pro free with trade-in right now
Buy Meta Ray-Ban smart glasses for $76 off - here are the deals
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best Sam's Club deals to compete with October Prime Day 2025: My favorite 10+ deals
Best early Target Circle Week deals to compete with Prime Day: I'm tracking 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best Amazon Prime Day Apple deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts in October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use