The Pioneer Woman Pumpkin Dutch Oven Is Back! [2025]
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Walmart Just Dropped an Updated Pioneer Woman Collection—And It's Prettier Than Ever
10 Best Kitchen Products from the Pioneer Woman's Walmart Line
Our Favorite Pieces from the Pioneer Woman Furniture Line at Walmart
Trader Joe's Just Brought Back a Beloved Fall Dessert and People Are Freaking Out
Most of the Pioneer Woman Kitchen Collection Is on Clearance at Walmart—and We’re Freaking Out
Aldi's Halloween Collection Is Dropping Earlier Than Ever—Here's When You Can Shop It
The 6 Best Items From the Pioneer Woman Cookware Collection
8 Brand-New Trader Joe's Items That Just Hit Stores
Trader Joe's Just Stocked a Brand-New Cooler Bag, and I Know It's Going to Sell Out Immediately
A Pioneer Woman Stand Mixer Just Dropped—And It's a Budget-Friendly Beauty
Costco Just Dropped Prices on Its Kirkland Products
Walmart Just Announced a Brand-New Store Layout—and It's Not What You'd Expect
This $1.99 Aldi Find Is Going to Fly Off the Shelf
A Kate Spade x Target Collection Is Coming—And It Has the Cutest Home Finds for Spring
Trader Joe's Just Rolled Out Its Line-Up of Holiday Products and We're Obsessed
9 Home Decor Items from The Pioneer Woman We're Shopping Now
Last-Minute Holiday Savings! Take Over 60% Off Select Pioneer Woman Gear at Walmart
The Pioneer Woman Just Launched a Pretty Outdoor Collection, and Prices Start at Only $8
Courtesy The Pioneer Woman
Home
News
Trends
Walmart Just Dropped the Pioneer Woman Fall Collection—And It’s Already Selling Out
Courtesy The Pioneer Woman
By
Emily Way
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 12, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Shop quickly—the most popular items (looking at you, pumpkin Dutch oven) are already selling out!
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
The leaves are starting to fall, and the air is crisp and cool. You know what that means? A harvest-themed Pioneer Woman collection is coming to Walmart!
Forget about springy florals and bright hues. The latest installment in Ree Drummond’s kitchen line leans fully into autumn vibes, marrying classic silhouettes and warm, muted tones. Plus, we spy the return of the beloved pumpkin Dutch oven that sells out every year—and it’s still in stock!
Below are all our favorite autumn goodies that have already dropped from Ree Drummond’s coveted collection.
via merchant
The Pioneer Woman Fall Collection 2025
Welcome the cooler months with muted tones and plenty of pumpkins! Here's what we're shopping from the fall 2025 Pioneer Woman collection.
Shop on Walmart
What is the 2025 Pioneer Woman fall collection?
Walmart drops a Pioneer Woman fall collection every year just in time for the temperature switch. This year’s drop doesn’t just contain familiar favorites. Instead, it boasts an assortment of new cookware and kitchen staples in seasonal shades. We also see the return of favorites like the coveted pumpkin Dutch Oven, which we consider an autumn staple.
No matter which piece catches your eye, we encourage you to snag your favorites soon. Many options are expected to sell out quickly.
Our Favorite Fall Finds
via merchant
Pumpkin Cast-Iron Dutch Oven
Shop on Walmart
A classic piece from prior Pioneer Woman fall collections, this pumpkin cast-iron Dutch Oven remains a seasonal staple. The 3.5-quart capacity, enameled cast iron construction and a whimsical gold stem knob bring a crisp weather flair to any gathering. It’s oven safe up to 500 degrees Fahrenheit, making it the perfect pot for stews, braised beef and festive side dishes. This charming table centerpiece sells out every year, so we recommend snagging it in either orange or white before word gets out!
via merchant
Mini Pumpkin Cocottes
Shop on Walmart
These mini pumpkin cocottes look cute as can be next to their larger Dutch oven cousin, but they’re also versatile enough to justify all on their own. Each pumpkin in this set of three holds a half-quart—ideal for single-serving desserts, dips or side dishes. Unlike the larger version, each is dishwasher- and microwave-safe, making them the perfect pick for easy cleanup.
via merchant
Casserole Baking Dish with Wood Lid
Shop on Walmart
Boasting a beautiful linen eyelet pattern, generous capacity and built-in handles, this casserole baking dish is bound to delight at the next potluck. Use it for brownies or casseroles, and serve right from the dish. There’s no need to transfer meals, since the dish itself is pretty enough for serving, thanks to the pretty lace embossing. In addition, the stylish wooden lid secures your famous dish inside, so it’s easy to transport to parties while keeping the interior warm.
Via Merchant
Ruffled-Edge Baking Pie Pan
Shop on Walmart
Have you ever seen a pie plate so pretty? Available in white, this glazed pie dish doesn’t skimp on style. The ruffled edge brings a touch of whimsy, while the durable stoneware construction ensures that tarts, pies and quiches bake evenly all over. It’s also oven-safe up to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, so it’s suitable for a number of delicious sweet and savory dishes.
via merchant
14-Piece Cast-Aluminum Cookware Set
Shop on Walmart
Formerly available in turquoise, this 14-piece cast-aluminum cookware set is now shoppable in both fall-inspired brown speckle and earthy charcoal. Each set comes with everything needed to cook up a number of the Pioneer Woman’s signature dishes, including a 10-inch frypan, two-quart saucepan with lid, five-quart Dutch oven with lid, four-quart everyday pan with lid, a griddle, felt pan protectors and an acacia wood spoon, turner and utensil rest. With over 1,500 positive reviews, you really can’t go wrong!
Where to Buy
Decking out your home in autumnal kitchenware doesn’t have to break the bank. Shop the Pioneer Woman fall collection right now at Walmart.
While you’re shopping, don’t forget to check out other fun finds from the collection, including this adorable Pioneer Woman furniture.
Author
Emily Way
As Taste of Home's shopping editor, Emily has covered everything from travel and food to DIY. She is passionate about locating the best products at prices that readers can afford. Her expertise lies in product testing and exploring viral products from Tiktok and Instagram.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box