The Challenges of Being an Entrepreneur, From Loneliness to Stress - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Small Business
Entrepreneurs who quit W2 jobs open up about the struggles that come with being your own boss: 'It's professionally lonely'
By
Kathleen Elkins
gradyreese/Getty Images
2025-09-17T09:30:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Business Insider asked several entrepreneurs about challenges that come with working for yourself.
Jack Schrupp, who left a teaching job to run his own business, cited professional loneliness.
Others said they deal with additional stress, but agree that the pros outweigh the cons.
There are perks to being your own boss and setting your own schedule.
"Being an entrepreneur is great. It's awesome," confirmed Alex Yale, who quit corporate America to launch an e-commerce business. "But the grass is green wherever you water it. It takes a lot of hard work, and it takes a lot of time and energy."Success in its most basic form — keeping the lights on — is far from guaranteed, he added: "There's a huge graveyard of failed entrepreneurs."
And if you do happen to make it, don't expect it to be stress-free."As an entrepreneur, you take things really to heart. It's your product, your baby, your brand — and when something goes wrong, you lose sleep over it," said Yale, who owns and operates cleaning brand Uncle Todd's and Flip-It! Cap, a company that sells bottle-emptying kits. "You lose dollars over it. In the corporate world, your boss might be upset or your performance review might not be stellar, but you're getting the same paycheck."
PTO looks different — and may be nonexistent — especially if you're running a lean operation."Everything is on me. I can't just disconnect and put an out of office up, because if I'm not there to solve it or reply to it or what have you, the buck stops with me," he said. "There are some serious differences between being a W2 employee and not — and some of them are great and some of them aren't."
After years in the corporate world, Yale quit to build his own company.
Courtesy of Alex Yale
For Yale, whose brands both do seven-figures in revenue on Amazon, the pros outweigh the cons.
Long-time entrepreneur Kyle Goguen, who launched his first e-commerce business right out of college, feels similarly.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"There's far more risk associated and a ton more upside with starting your own business," said Goguen, who runs a pickleball brand, CRBN, with his childhood friend Garrett Gosselin. "And it just depends on your risk tolerance. Garrett and I both have a lot of friends who have awesome careers. Neither Garrett nor I would want to trade positions with them, but they actually wouldn't want to trade places with us either. They like having stability for themselves and their family."Leaving behind a W2 job often means leaving behind employer-based health insurance and retirement plans. In some cases, it also means leaving behind a team of coworkers.
That's what Drink Wholesome founder Jack Schrupp misses the most about his former job. As a French teacher at a boarding school, he lived on campus and was surrounded by other teachers and students."That was my community. That's what grounded me and made sense to me," he said.Now, as the owner of a small business with one employee — his sister, who works remotely from the opposite side of the country — he spends most days by himself.
Schrupp works from his home in Hanover, and while he considers his schedule "pretty relaxed," there's a trade-off. "It's professionally lonely."Running your own business can feel isolating, "especially if it's a hard journey, which it often is," he said. "You feel like you are doing it alone with no one to turn to for help or advice. So, I wouldn't say that entrepreneurship is like a hack or should be the ultimate goal for everyone."He's found that it's harder to set boundaries when you're building a company versus working for an employer.
"I have the potential to work way more. I could probably work all day, every single day," he said. "There's no end to growing a business because it's growing, right? It's ever-evolving."That said, the millennial recognizes the perks, such as the freedom that comes with being your own boss: "I will say, it would be hard for me to start working for someone else, just because I do have almost unadulterated freedom. I'm accountable to no one."That's how Gosselin feels. Before founding CRBN, he was a sommelier at a country club, often working nights and weekends.
He doesn't sugarcoat the entrepreneur lifestyle, but he appreciates it."The first two years, we had a lot of ups and downs, and I've never been more stressed in my life," he said. "I think I've learned to manage that. It comes with the territory, and once I kind of accepted that, I don't think I would trade it for anything. To me, it's worth it."His cofounder, Goguen, chimed in: "We just get to play pickleball and think about pickleball and talk about pickleball and get paid to do it. It's a pretty great situation."
Recommended video
Small Business
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account