lists Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
lists
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
22 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article A Reader’s Question on Nested Lists
lists
A Reader’s Question on Nested Lists
Answering a reader's question about how to create a complex numbering system with CSS list counters.
Juan Diego Rodríguez
on
May 19, 2025
Direct link to the article Styling Counters in CSS
counters lists
Styling Counters in CSS
Going from the most basic ways to style lists directly in HTML to advanced customization techniques that are even capable of making things that aren't lists look like lists.
Juan Diego Rodríguez
on
May 30, 2025
Direct link to the article counters()
lists
counters()
The CSS counters() function can combine multiple lists into a single list. So, if you have two active counters on the page, counters() can be used to combine them so that the list numbers are used to count the items in both lists together.
Juan Diego Rodríguez
on
Feb 4, 2025
Direct link to the article counter()
lists
counter()
The counter() function takes the number (or symbol) of a list item and makes it available to display outside the list. In other words, it makes things that aren't lists look like lists. For example, we can take the current list number of an existing list counter, format it as a Roman numeral, then display it in front of a heading:
Juan Diego Rodríguez
on
Feb 4, 2025
Direct link to the article Some Things You Might Not Know About Custom Counter Styles
lists
Some Things You Might Not Know About Custom Counter Styles
I was reading through Juan’s recent Almanac entry for the @counter-style at-rule and I’ll be darned if he didn’t uncover and unpack some extremely interesting things that we can do to style lists, notably the list marker. You’re probably already …
Geoff Graham
on
Jan 23, 2025
Direct link to the article @counter-style
lists
@counter-style
The @counter-style at-rule lets you create custom list counters that can be used in the list-style-type property and the counter() and counters() functions. It also allows for extending existing counter styles.…
Juan Diego Rodríguez
on
Jan 28, 2025
Direct link to the article Remove List Markers Without Affecting Semantics
list-style-type lists
Remove List Markers Without Affecting Semantics
:where(ul, li, menu) {
list-style: "";
}
The more “correct” approach is to set list-style to none but that has a latent consequence of Safari no longer recognizing the element as a proper list, semantically speaking. We could fix …
Geoff Graham
on
May 22, 2024
Direct link to the article Everything You Need to Know About the Gap After the List Marker
list-style lists marker
Everything You Need to Know About the Gap After the List Marker
I was reading “Creative List Styling” on Google’s web.dev blog and noticed something odd in one of the code examples in the ::marker section of the article. The built-in list markers are bullets, ordinal numbers, and letters. The ::marker pseudo-element …
Šime Vidas
on
May 17, 2024
Direct link to the article Newer Things to Know About Good Ol’ HTML Lists
aria definition list list-style-position lists marker menu
Newer Things to Know About Good Ol’ HTML Lists
HTML lists are boring. They don’t do much, so we don’t really think about them despite how widely used they are. And we’re still able to do the same things we’ve always done to customize them, like removing markers, reversing …
Daniel Schwarz
on
Nov 28, 2022
1
2
3
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top