We Moved From NYC to a Coastal Town on the East Coast; Life Is Better - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Real Estate
We bought a fixer-upper in a coastal Connecticut town. In a year, we built a suburban life that's so good I don't miss NYC.
By
Alexa Mellardo
I've enjoyed spending my 30s building the suburban life of my dreams in a coastal town in Connecticut.
Alexa Mellardo
2025-09-15T13:12:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I spent my 20s living my best life in New York City in small apartments — then I fell in love.
Engaged and approaching my 30s, I moved to the suburbs in Greenwich, Connecticut, with my partner.
The coastal town is still close to NYC, and I've fallen in love with living here in every season.
At 22, I had big dreams.
A recent college grad, I wanted to write for a magazine and embrace the glitz and glam of Manhattan while living in a stylish loft fit for Carrie Bradshaw.In reality, my overpriced apartment was more "shoebox chic" with a galley kitchen and the smallest closet imaginable. Though it was tiny and sometimes had the aroma of weed wafting through the walls, it was adorable.
And, throughout my 20s, I did create the life I'd imagined, complete with boozy brunches, rooftop parties, and coffee dates on the steps of the Met that felt like a scene from "Gossip Girl."Approaching 30 kicked off a brand-new stage: I moved in with the man of my dreams, he proposed, and wedding plans commenced.Beautiful gifts from our registry arrived, with no room to enjoy them. We were so over our cramped apartment, the crowded subways, and the impending rent increases.
This soon-to-be-newlywed began daydreaming of a walk-in closet and moonlit evenings dancing barefoot on a luscious lawn (not pavement), surrounded by stars and silence (not traffic).I pictured hydrangea gardens, a guest bedroom with crisp linens, and slow weekends spent sipping coffee on my front porch.It was officially time to turn the page on my 20s and embrace an era fit for a Nancy Meyers movie.
We headed to the suburbs of Connecticut
Greenwich, Connecticut, seemed like a great fit for us.
Alexa Mellardo
We set our sights on Greenwich, Connecticut, close to family. Nestled on the Long Island Sound, this suburban town offers a picturesque coastal vibe.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Think: tree-lined streets, cedar-shingled New England-style homes by the beach adorned with flower boxes, charming book nooks with vintage treasures, and boutiques with breezy linen dresses.At 40 minutes by train from NYC, it's an ideal commuting distance for my husband, whose job is still based there.
A competitive housing market, inflated prices, and rising mortgage rates made our pursuit challenging. We spent date nights scrolling listings on Zillow. Whenever our real-estate agent called, we hopped on a train to tour homes.Three months later, we had an accepted offer. Enter: our three-bedroom, two-bath fixer-upper in Greenwich.
We purchased a fixer-upper in Connecticut and got to work.
Alexa Mellardo
Leaving behind the apartment where we'd made many memories—and the city where my husband proposed — was bittersweet, but we excitedly packed our bags and hit the 'burbs.
In one year, we created the cozy home of our dreams
We spent a lot of time and money renovating our house to make it the home of our dreams.
Alexa Mellardo
We chose the path of most resistance to create our own Nancy Meyers dream in real life. Since we weren't building new, we opted for the next best thing: a home we could renovate and make our own.Our little love nest had wall-to-wall carpeting and a dated linoleum kitchen floor. The roof leaked. We didn't dare venture up the creaky steps of the front porch.
We spent a lot of time upgrading the kitchen.
Alexa Mellardo
We rolled up our sleeves and got to work.
Not only did I learn how to use a hammer, but I also swapped browsing the racks of Zara for scouring the aisles of Home Depot.Walls were demolished; new floors, windows, and doors installed; a fireplace constructed; and shiplap positioned. After a year, our dream kitchen and master bath became a reality.All in all, I've fallen in love with suburban life during every season
In the summer, we start to enjoy the hydrangeas outside.
Alexa Mellardo
We've now lived here for about two years, and I love that each season in Greenwich brings new traditions.
Spring and summer ("patio season") commences with Lilly Pulitzer sundresses, limoncello spritzes, and socializing on the Ave. It also means hosting garden parties where loved ones can finally fit around our farm table.On weekends, we kick back on our front porch in wicker furniture with good books and the sounds of a babbling brook nearby.Autumn calls for jack-o'-lantern carving around our firepit, toasting marshmallows, and sipping mulled wine.
We've created autumn traditions in our new neighborhood.
Alexa Mellardo
We get trick-or-treaters now that we're in the suburbs, so we line the driveway with pumpkins to welcome them.Christmastime means harvesting a large balsam fir, which we finally have the room for. We like to decorate it with velvet ribbons and hand-painted ornaments in the light of our fireplace as holiday music plays in the background.
My new suburban lifestyle allows me to create special tablescapes.
Alexa Mellardo
Hosting around the holidays is especially fun. It's easier to create grand tablescapes and charcuterie arrangements now that I've got the space to store different decorations, candlesticks, chargers, glasses, and napkin rings.
This suburban lifestyle is so nice that it's hard to miss the city
I've enjoyed having a guest room.
Alexa Mellardo
Now that I have a cutting garden, I can decorate with fresh floral bouquets and snip herbs and heirloom tomatoes for my meal preps, too.With an extra bedroom, we've got lots of space to host friends for weekend getaways, especially those who want an escape from city life. I find joy in making their stay extra special —there's always a fresh set of towels and lavender bath soap waiting on the guest bed.All in all, I wouldn't trade spending my 20s in NYC for the world, but my 30s in the 'burbs have been off to an incredible start.
Though I don't make it into the city as often as I thought I would, I'm OK with it. Our cozy cottage — dubbed Hydrangea House — and our Nancy Meyers-style life make it hard to leave.
Recommended video
NYC
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account