Life Sciences: Books and Journals | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Life Sciences
Our journals, books and eBooks in all areas of Life Sciences are serving researchers, professionals, lecturers and students. We publish many of the most prestigious journals in Life Sciences, including a number of fully open access journals.
Our book and eBook portfolio comprises reference works, textbooks, conference proceedings, and book series from the world’s most distinguished authors and editors.
We welcome you on this page and invite you to learn more about our products and services.
Agriculture and Agronomy - Featured journals, books and series
Journal of Wood Science
Open access
Rice
Open access
Organic Agriculture and Climate Change
Umami
Open access
Sustainable Agriculture Reviews
Find more books and journals on Springer Nature Link
Agriculture and Agronomy - Featured journals, books and series
Journal of Wood Science
Open access
The Journal of Wood Science provides an international forum for the exchange of knowledge and the discussion of current issues in wood and wood utilization. It publishes original articles on basic and applied research dealing with the science, technology, and engineering of wood, wood components, wood and wood-based products, and wood constructions. Articles concerned with pulp and paper, fiber resources from non-woody plants, wood-inhabiting insects and fungi, wood biomass, and environmental and ecological issues in forest products are also included. The journal publishes review articles on selected topics concerning wood science and related fields.This is the official journal of the Japan Wood Research Society.
Rice
Open access
Rice is a peer-reviewed open access journal published under the brand SpringerOpen. Rice fills a critical need in basic and applied plant science journal publishing, offering the world’s only high-quality serial publication for reporting current advances in rice genetics, structural and functional genomics, comparative genomics, molecular biology and physiology, molecular breeding and comparative biology. Rice publishes review articles and original papers in all of the aforementioned areas and serves as the primary source of newly published information for researchers and students in rice and related research.
Organic Agriculture and Climate Change
Monograph
2023
Klaus Lorenz,
Rattan Lal
Provides a comprehensive overview on the effects of climate change on organic agriculture
Focuses on the scientific understanding of soil carbon sequestration and greenhouse gas emissions
Provides an outlook on the combination of organic and conventional agriculture practices to mitigate climate change
Umami
Taste for Health
Professional book
2024
Open access
Ana San Gabriel,
Tia M. Rains,
Gary Beauchamp
Provides an overview of the relationship between umami and human health
Explores the potential of glutamate to lower salt intake, promote satiation and support healthier aging
Covers practical culinary applications of umami flavor and practical usage of umami for promoting healthy eating
This book is open access, which means that you have free and unlimited access
Sustainable Agriculture Reviews
Sustainable agriculture is a rapidly growing field aiming at producing food and energy in a sustainable way for humans and their children. Sustainable agriculture is a discipline that addresses current issues such as climate change, increasing food and fuel prices, poor-nation starvation, rich-nation obesity, water pollution, soil erosion, fertility loss, pest control, and biodiversity depletion.Novel, environmentally-friendly solutions are proposed based on integrated knowledge from sciences as diverse as agronomy, soil science, molecular biology, chemistry, toxicology, ecology, economy, and social sciences. Indeed, sustainable agriculture decipher mechanisms of processes that occur from the molecular level to the farming system to the global level at time scales ranging from seconds to centuries. For that, scientists use the system approach that involves studying components and interactions of a whole system to address scientific, economic and social issues. In that respect, sustainable agriculture is not a classical, narrow science. Instead of solving problems using the classical painkiller approach that treats only negative impacts, sustainable agriculture treats problem sources.Because most actual society issues are now intertwined, global, and fast-developing, sustainable agriculture will bring solutions to build a safer world. This book series gathers review articles that analyze current agricultural issues and knowledge, then propose alternative solutions. It will therefore help all scientists, decision-makers, professors, farmers and politicians who wish to build a safe agriculture, energy and food system for future generations.
Find more books and journals on Springer Nature Link
Subdisciplines
Agriculture and Agronomy
Aquatic Sciences
Biochemistry
Bioinformatics
Biophysics
Cell Biology
Developmental Biology
Ecology
Entomology
Evolutionary Biology
Forestry
Genetics and Genomics
Microbiology
Plant Sciences
Veterinary Sciences
Zoology
Visit Springer Nature Link to browse further disciplines.
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Publish with us
Selecting the right publisher is one of the most important decisions an author will make. At Springer, we recognize that our authors are the heart of what we do and we are committed to provide the resources, support and advice you need to help you succeed.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature