Don't miss out on Logitech's end-of-summer sale
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Don't miss out on Logitech's end-of-summer sale
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 4, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Link copied to clipboard
As summer comes to a close, we're starting to see more and more sales pop up for some of our favorite products. Woot has a pretty good promotion going on this week, delivering hefty discounts on some of our favorite PC accessories. Plus, if you're quick, you can save an additional $5 off your order using code "LOGITECHFIVE" during checkout. So if you've been looking to buy a great keyboard, mouse, or just need to pick up a pair of headphones, we recommend taking a look.
Logitech G PRO
Source: Logitech
If you're looking for a smaller mechanical keyboard that's perfect for gaming, we think the Logitech G Pro is going to be a great one to go with. Not only does it feature a compact design, but the key switches are also quite comfortable, as well as reliable. Plus, you can also program a set of macros for in-game use, and there's customizable RGB as well. Pick it up for just $59 right now.
Source: Logitech
Logitech G PRO Gaming Keyboard
$59
$80
Save $21
A fantastic keyboard that's also quite compact as well. You get an excellent typing experience, along with customizable RGB lighting.
$59 at Woot
Expand
Collapse
Logitech MX Keys Mini
We loved this keyboard when we reviewed it. Not only does it have a sleek look and reliable build, but it also feels good too. The keys might not offer a lot of travel due to the design, but it's still comfortable to type on for hours on end. The keyboard also features backlit keys that react to the environment and only light up when your hands come near. Plus, you get compatibility with multiple platforms, which means it's great to use with a variety of different products.
Logitech MX Keys Mini
$68
$90
Save $22
This wireless, metallic keyboard from Logitech has keys shaped for your fingertips, so typing feels more natural. The backlit keys automatically light up when your hands approach them and the lighting adjusts based on your environment.
$68 at Woot
Expand
Collapse
Logitech MX Anywhere 3S
An impressive mouse that's built to last and is extremely compact, making it perfect for use at home or travel. The mouse features tracking on nearly any surface, an 8K DPI sensor for accurate tracking, and also has mouse buttons that are responsive yet quiet. This particular model on sale is for Apple devices, with compatibility across a line of different products.
Source: Logitech
Logitech MX Anywhere 3S
$63
$90
Save $27
Weight
95g
Sensor
8K DPI tracking anywhere
System Requirements
macOS, Windows, Android, iOS, ChromeOS, Linux
Wireless?
Yes, Bluetooth or via Logitech Bolt dongle (not included)
Brand
Logitech
The Logitech MX Anywhere 3S is the follow-up to the popular Anywhere 3. It doesn't bring many upgrades, but it's still a mouse that enables maximum productivity with returning features like the magnetic scroll wheel and Logitech Flow support.
$63 at Woot
Expand
Collapse
Logitech G435 LIGHTSPEED Gaming Headset
If you're looking for an affordable gaming headset, the G435 Lightspeed is going to be a fantastic option. Not only are you getting a lightweight design, but it's also quite comfortable as well. It has dual beam forming microphones for excellent voice clarity, and 40mm drivers that deliver robust audio. Battery life is also quite good as well, with up to 18 hours of use on a single charge. At $35, this one is a no-brainer.
Source: Logitech
Logitech G435 LIGHTSPEED Wireless Gaming Headset
$35
$80
Save $45
Weight
5.80 ounces
Battery Life
18 hour
Spatial Audio
Dolby Atmos, Windows Sonic
Driver
40 mm
Bluetooth
5.2
The Logitech G435 wireless gaming headset is a lightweight and comfortable premium over-ear gaming headset that delivers great sound and excellent voice clarity. You can now grab it for just $35.
$35 at Woot
Expand
Collapse
Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920
If you're looking to elevate your video calls, the Logitech HD Pro 920 might be the way to go. This webcam features a 1080p sensor with automatic light correction, along with dual microphones for excellent voice clarity. You also get excellent versatility with this webcam, as it is compatible with a range of devices.
Source: Amazon
Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920
$55
$70
Save $15
The Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920 is an all-rounder webcam that's great for both streaming and video conferencing.
$55 at Woot
Expand
Collapse
The important thing to note with this sales promotion is that all products are new, but you will only have a 90-day warranty on most of the devices. So there is a small trade-off here with getting the discounts, but we don't think that will be a problem, considering that all the items are coming direct from Woot. You can get free shipping if you're an Amazon Prime member, or you'll pay $6. If you don't like what you get, you can always return it.
Keyboards & Mice
Keyboard
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
6 days ago
The most alive and immersive open-world maps ever created
6 days ago
6 lightweight tools I install before anything else on a new PC
5 days ago
5 media center ideas to turn your Raspberry Pi into a home theater hub
6 days ago
Apple proves that thin phone enthusiasts don't have to sacrifice durability for their devices
Today's best deals
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
4 hours ago
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
11 hours ago
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
1 day ago
See More
Trending Now
One of the best ways to avoid Windows 11's requirements is back from the dead, and it's celebrating with new features
5 self-hosted services I tried to love, but later uninstalled
Star Wars games don't need to be in the High Republic because they can explore these eras instead
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.