Daniel Schwarz on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Daniel Schwarz
@dxnnydotfun
·
dxnny.fun/
Direct link to the article What Can We Actually Do With corner-shape?
css properties shapes
What Can We Actually Do With corner-shape?
When I first started messing around with code, rounded corners required five background images or an image sprite likely created in Photoshop, so when border-radius came onto the scene, I remember everybody thinking that it was the best thing ever. …
Sep 12, 2025
Direct link to the article A First Look at the Interest Invoker API (for Hover-Triggered Popovers)
Interest Invoker API popover
A First Look at the Interest Invoker API (for Hover-Triggered Popovers)
Chrome 139 is experimenting with Open UI’s proposed Interest Invoker API, which would be used to create tooltips, hover menus, hover cards, quick actions, and other types of UIs for showing more information with hover interactions.
Jul 23, 2025
Direct link to the article Setting Line Length in CSS (and Fitting Text to a Container)
typography
Setting Line Length in CSS (and Fitting Text to a Container)
The many ways to juggle line length when working with text... including two proposed
properties that could make it easier in the future.
Jul 14, 2025
Direct link to the article Poking at the CSS if() Function a Little More: Conditional Color Theming
CSS functions
Poking at the CSS if() Function a Little More: Conditional Color Theming
The CSS if() function enables us to use values conditionally, but what exactly does if() do? Let's look at a possible real-world use case.
Jun 26, 2025
Direct link to the article Exploring the CSS contrast-color() Function… a Second Time
accessibility color CSS functions
Exploring the CSS contrast-color() Function… a Second Time
The contrast-color() function doesn’t check color contrast, but rather it outright resolves to either black or white (whichever one contrasts the most with your chosen color). Safari Technology Preview recently implemented it and we explore its possible uses in this article.
Jun 5, 2025
Direct link to the article scroll-marker-group
scroll-marker-group
The scroll-marker-group CSS property determines if the ::scroll-marker-group pseudo-element is generated within the scroll container that the property is set on, and where.
May 28, 2025
Direct link to the article ::scroll-marker-group
::scroll-marker-group
The ::scroll-marker-group pseudo-element holds the scroll markers generated by the ::scroll-marker pseudo-element. When clicked on, these scroll markers scroll users to a corresponding scroll target within a scroll container in a scroll-snapping fashion. All in all, scroll markers give users an additional way to navigate overflow content.
May 28, 2025
Direct link to the article What We Know (So Far) About CSS Reading Order
accessibility css properties
What We Know (So Far) About CSS Reading Order
The reading-flow and reading-order proposed CSS properties are designed to specify the source order of HTML elements in the DOM tree, or in simpler terms, how accessibility tools deduce the order of elements. You’d use them to make the focus order of focusable elements match the visual order, as outlined in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.2).
May 27, 2025
Direct link to the article :target-current
:target-current
The :target-current CSS pseudo-class selects active scroll markers, meaning it’s only valid when used with the ::scroll-marker pseudo-element
May 22, 2025
TOC
Syntax
Basic usage
Example: Carousel
Browser support
Specification
More information
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top