Why the best wireless earbuds I've ever listened to aren't made by Sony or Bose | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
Why the best wireless earbuds I've ever listened to aren't made by Sony or Bose
If you haven't heard of NYC-based audio brand Status, you'll be as surprised as I was with this unique pair of earbuds.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 12:00 a.m. PT
Status Pro X earbuds
ZDNET's key takeaways The Status Pro X earbuds are available for preorder on the official site for $249.These earbuds produce some of the best audio I've ever heard.You have to insert them just right to get the best fit. View now at Status Best headphone deals of the week
Apple AirPods Max ANC Wireless Headphones (USB-C Charging, Blue):  $500 (save $50)
Soundcore Life Q20 Hybrid Active Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $40 (save $20)
Beats Studio Pro Wireless Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $250 (save $101)
Sony WH-1000XM4 Wireless Noise Cancelling Over-Ear Headphones:  $278 (save $70)
Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless ANC Over-Ear Headphones (Black):  $300 (save $80) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I've tested so many headphones and earbuds these days that it's getting harder and harder to tell them apart. But I've never tested a pair quite like the Status X Pro earbuds. These earbuds set the bar pretty high. Also: The best earbuds: Expert tested and reviewedIf you've not heard of Status, it might be because they've only been around for about nine years (not long at all in the ever-evolving world of audio tech). When I first received the Status Pro X, I didn't think much of it. I hadn't unboxed them yet, but could see the form factor on the box and wasn't immediately impressed.Little did I know.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Status Pro X earbuds If you want brilliantly agile, dyanamic, and smooth sound, there are the earbuds to get.
details
View at Status My experienceLet's cut to the chase: the Status Pro X earbuds are freaking fantastic. In fact, they sound so good, I didn't want to stop listening. They had a clarity I've not heard in earbuds at this price range, and the soundstage was amazing. On top of that, I found the earbuds to have an elegant design. That's a big change to my favorite earbuds, the Denon PearL Pro, which are big and rather clunky. As for the Pixel Buds Pro, they just look silly compared to the Status Pro X.To my great surprise, if I were to compare the Status Pro X to the Denon PearL Pro earbuds (which cost nearly twice as much as the Status Pro X), the Status Pro X actually wins. The reason for this is that the Status Pro X earbuds beat them in the highs. Both earbuds have fantastic, dynamic bass, but the Status Pro X enjoys some seriously crystal highs. Also: These $300 Swarovski earbuds aren't my style, but their sound quality has me hookedIn fact, the Status Pro X earbuds are absolutely delightful from the low end to the mid range. That is a feat not many earbuds can match. Often, a pair of earbuds will win out in certain frequencies but lose in others. Yes, you can always tweak the sound of most earbuds with an associated app, but I tend to judge earbuds by how they sound out of the box (and then tweak them as needed). The Status Pro X enjoys magnificent sound, without having to install an app (Thank you, Status). That, my friends, makes a huge difference, especially for those who either don't want to have to deal with EQ or those who don't know what EQ is.
Jack Wallen/ZDNETHow do these earbuds achieve this feat? Multiple drivers. Most earbuds stick with a single driver design, but the Status Pro X uses multiple: a dynamic driver for lows and dual Knowles drivers for mids and highs. The multi-driver setup makes that incredible separation of sound and smooth detail possible.During my entire testing time with the Status Pro X earbuds, I didn't download an app or make any changes to the sound, and still I enjoyed a warmth and agility I've never heard from a mid-range pair of earbuds. If I didn't know the prices of these ($249 on the official site), I would have sworn these cost at least twice the price. Impressive.Now, I did attempt to enable Android's LDAC codec for 990/kbps/090/kbps, but found the connection dropped too much, so I switched it back to best effort. I also had HD audio enabled. Both of these features are only available from within the Developer Options.Also: One of the best pair of earbuds with high-quality sound I've tested are just $70Even without the higher quality LDAC setting, these earbuds easily bested every pair of earbuds I have at my disposal. Every song and genre I threw at the Status Pro X earbuds sounded gloriously alive. From Rush, Leprous, Purity Ring, Spiritbox, Cocteau Twins, Gary Numan, and many more -- they all came alive through these.The fit is where things aren't quite as fantastic. To get a good seal with these earbuds, you have to pull your ear up as you insert them and make sure you're using the right size tips. The Status Pro X won't give you a solid feel if you just jam them into your ears without intention. But when you get them properly seated, you're in for a lot of dancing and smiles.ZDNET's buying adviceYou are not going to find a better-sounding pair of earbuds at this price. These are, hands down, the best pair of earbuds I've tested at this price point. Heck, the Status Pro X earbuds are better than every pair of earbuds I've tested or used (from the cheap to the expensive and everything in between). These earbuds sound so good that I would dare any other company to send me earbuds that they believe can dethrone the Status Pro X earbuds as my top recommendation of 2025. Just buy these and forget about those trashy earbuds you've been using for years.Status Pro X earbuds tech specsTriple driver setup (dual Knowles balanced armature drivers and one 12" dynamic driver)-52db active noise cancelingAI speech enhancementBluetooth 5.3IP55 water resistance3 beam-forming mics8-hour battery life from a single charge (with a total of 24 hours using the charging case)Optical wearing sensor24-bit/96 kHz audio over BluetoothLDAC support for audio up to 990 kbpsBoth touch and physical button controlFeatured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gap
I compared the two best smartwatches from Apple and Google - here's the one you should buy
AirPods Pro 3 vs. AirPods Pro 2: What to know before rushing to upgrade
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use