Access Management - AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) - AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS Identity & Access Management
Overview
Features
Getting Started
Resources
FAQs
Products›
Security, Identity, and Compliance›
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
AWS Identity and Access Management
Securely manage identities and access to AWS services and resources
Get started with IAM
Why use IAM?
Use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to manage and scale workload and workforce access securely supporting your agility and innovation in AWS.
Play
Benefits of IAM
Set permission guardrails and fine-grained access
Set and manage guardrails with broad permissions, and move toward least privilege by using fine-grained access controls for your workloads.
Manage workload and workforce identities across your AWS accounts
Manage identities across single AWS accounts or centrally connect identities to multiple AWS accounts.
Use temporary security credentials and permission sets to access your AWS resources
Grant temporary security credentials for workloads that access your AWS resources using IAM and grant your workforce access with AWS IAM Identity Center.
Analyze access and validate IAM policies as you move toward least privilege
Generate least-privilege policies, verify external and unused access to resources, and continually analyze to rightsize permissions.
Use cases
Apply fine-grained permissions and scale with attribute-based access control
Create granular permissions based on user attributes—such as department, job role, and team name—by using attribute-based access control. Learn about attribute-based access control
Manage per-account access or scale access across AWS accounts and applications
Manage per-account identities with IAM or use IAM Identity Center to provide multi-account access and application assignments across AWS. Learn about centralizing identity and access management
Establish organization-wide and preventative guardrails on AWS
Use service control policies to establish permissions guardrails for IAM users and roles, and implement a data perimeter around your accounts in AWS Organizations. Learn about data perimeter guardrails
Set, verify, and right-size permissions toward least privilege
Streamline permissions management and use cross-account findings as you set, verify, and refine policies on the journey toward least privilege. Learn about the least-privilege journey
Next steps
Documentation
Learn security best practices in IAM
Explore the documentation
Getting started
Get started with IAM
Learn more
Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so we can improve the quality of the content on our pages
Yes
No
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.