ExpressVPN vs. Surfshark: Two of CNET’s Favorite VPNs Compared - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test VPNs
TechServices & Software VPN
ExpressVPN vs. Surfshark: Two of CNET’s Favorite VPNs Compared
The decision will probably come down to how much you value privacy and a clean UI over cost.
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Attila Tomaschek
Sept. 15, 2025
4:15 a.m. PT 10 min read
ExpressVPN and Surfshark are two VPN heavyweights and sit comfortably among CNET’s top VPNs thanks to their exceptional all-around performance and privacy protections. I put both ExpressVPN and Surfshark through the same rigorous testing methodology and use both VPNs regularly. Each is excellent, but they do things very differently. That can make it easier to decide between the two based on your specific needs. In a perfect world, I’d recommend you get both for a mix of unique features, but if you're only looking for one VPN, I'll help you find the right fit. Overall, I’d go with ExpressVPN for heightened privacy and streaming capabilities, and Surfshark for budget-conscious casual users who want a premium VPN experience at a cheaper price.   ExpressVPN vs. Surfshark comparedMajor features compared
ExpressVPNSurfsharkCost $13 a month, $75 for the first 15 months (then $100 a year) or $98 for the first 28 months (then $100 a year)$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Avg. Speed Loss 18%21%Server Network 11,500-plus servers in 105 countries3,200-plus servers in 100 countriesEncryption AES 256-bit, ChaCha20AES 256-bit, ChaCha20VPN Protocols Available Lightway, WireGuard, OpenVPN, IKEv2WireGuard, OpenVPN, IKEv2Jurisdiction British Virgin IslandsNetherlandsSimultaneous Connections 10UnlimitedCompatibility Windows, MacOS, Linux, Chromebook, iOS, Android, Apple TV, Fire TV, Android TV, Routers, BrowsersMacOS, Windows, Linux, Chromebook, iOS, Android, Apple TV, Fire TV, Android TV, Routers, Browsers
ExpressVPN
ExpressVPN
2024
Price $13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)Latest Tests No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork 3,000 plus servers in 105 countriesJurisdiction British Virgin Islands
ExpressVPN is CNET’s Editors’ Choice for Best Overall VPN because it excels at virtually everything it does and is continuously innovating and setting the standard for what a VPN should be doing. The company effortlessly blends cutting-edge privacy with supreme usability and performance, making it an excellent choice for experienced, privacy-focused VPN users as well as complete beginners. You get fast speeds, exceptional streaming capabilities and the easiest VPN app to use, but if you're looking to keep costs down, Surfshark is the better choice.
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
See at ExpressVPN
Surfshark
Surfshark
2024
Price $15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Latest tests No leaks detected, 21% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork 3,200-plus servers in 100 countriesJurisdiction Netherlands
Surfshark is a solid value VPN for casual users who want a premium experience with some cool extras for a price that won’t break the bank. Despite a price hike on its longer-term subscription plans' renewal rates, Surfshark remains one of the most budget-friendly VPNs. It’s an excellent all-around VPN that’s fast, good for streaming, is user-friendly and includes a handful of helpful privacy features you won't find anywhere else, like Alternative ID, which lets you invent a persona to shield your actual personal info, and Dynamic Multi-Hop, which improves privacy by letting you choose two servers to connect through. But its apps are a little busier and its overall privacy stance not quite as polished as ExpressVPN's.
$45 at Surfshark VPN
Speed winner: ExpressVPN edges out Surfshark in a tight raceExpressVPN and Surfshark are two of the fastest VPNs based on our latest speed tests. We measured an 18% average speed loss with ExpressVPN and 21% with Surfshark. All VPNs will slow your connection to a certain degree, but we consider a VPN that cuts your speeds by less than 25% “fast” -- and both ExpressVPN and Surfshark make that cut.If you want the fastest speeds possible with both providers, use Lightway with ExpressVPN and WireGuard with Surfshark. They’re both lightweight VPN protocols built for speed, so you likely won’t notice a difference in performance whether you’re just browsing the internet or streaming movies in 4K.Earlier this year, ExpressVPN introduced Lightway Turbo (which can boost speeds by running traffic through multiple tunnels simultaneously), which helped significantly improve its speed performance.  Surfshark's new FastTrack feature is also designed to boost your VPN speeds by leveraging Surfshark's Nexus Network to optimize the route your traffic takes to the VPN server. The feature is currently only available on the MacOS app and through Surfshark's Vancouver, Seattle and Sydney server locations. While FastTrack performance didn't factor into our official 2025 speed testing results because it wasn't available at the time, the feature was able to boost my VPN speeds by about 20% during some ad hoc testing I did after its release in August. Although my results didn't come close to the 70% increase cited by Surfshark, users with slower or less stable internet connections may experience a more pronounced bump in VPN speeds using FastTrack.Value winner: Surfshark delivers a ton of value, despite increased renewal pricesExpressVPN is one of the most expensive VPNs available but still a solid option it is for both casual and critical use cases, even at those prices. Surfshark is much easier on the wallet and includes some unique privacy features not offered by ExpressVPN, but it lags a little in a few key areas like streaming as well as privacy and transparency. At the beginning of September, ExpressVPN followed the lead of several of its competitors and introduced a tiered subscription model with three different subscription plans: Basic, Advanced and Pro. ExpressVPN's Basic tier includes only the VPN and a stripped-down version of its Advanced Protection suite and costs $13 a month, $75 for the first 15 months (then $100 a year) or $98 for the first 28 months (then $100 a year) -- which is expensive for just a VPN, no matter how good it is.If you want to bundle additional services with your ExpressVPN subscription, you can spring for the Advanced or Pro plans. The Advanced plan delivers a little more value for the price than the Basic plan, including a password manager, full suite of Advanced Protection tools and most Identity Defender features. Advanced costs $14 a month, $90 for the first 15 months (then $120 a year) or $126 for the first 28 months (then $120 a year). The Pro plan includes everything in the Advanced plan, plus the full suite of Identity Defender tools and a dedicated IP for $20 a month, $135 for the first 15 months (then $200 a year) or $210 for the first 28 months (then $200 a year). That's a steep jump in cost compared to the features it adds over the Advanced plan. For most people, ExpressVPN's Advanced plan offers the best value. Surfshark, on the other hand, delivers a lot of value for casual users on long-term subscription plans. Surfshark’s monthly plan costs $15.45, which is unnecessarily expensive and not something I’d recommend purchasing under any circumstances -- unless you plan on using it for less than a month and asking for a refund within the first 30 days of purchase. Otherwise, if you only need a VPN for a month, you’re much better off with ExpressVPN at $13, Proton VPN at $10 or even Mullvad at 5 euro (about $6). Surfshark’s yearly and two-year Starter plans offer tremendous value, though. The yearly plan costs $48 for the first 15 months and renews at $79 annually and the two-year plan costs $54 for the first 27 months and $79 annually thereafter. At that price, you’ll get Surfshark’s Alternative ID personal detail generator alongside a VPN.Surfshark doesn’t offer a password manager like ExpressVPN does, but it does offer bundled subscription plans that include additional privacy and security tools. The Surfshark One plan includes everything in Starter, plus antivirus, data leak alerts and private search and costs $18 a month, $51 for the first 15 months (then $99 a year) or $67 for the first 27 months (then $99 a year). The One-plus plan adds on data removal services and costs $20.65 per month, $91 for the first 15 months (then $119 a year) or $108 for the first 27 months (then $119 a year). So if you find those extra services useful and already have a password manager, you may find Surfshark a better value overall regardless of which subscription tier you choose.            Privacy and security winner: ExpressVPN’s privacy and transparency are nearly unmatched, though unique Surfshark features make a compelling caseIf you’re a journalist, whistleblower, activist or anyone else with critical online privacy needs, I recommend choosing ExpressVPN over Surfshark because of its forward-thinking privacy initiatives. ExpressVPN has long been a standard bearer in the industry when it comes to privacy and transparency, while Surfshark (although still solid) is still playing catch-up in a few ways when it comes to things like independent audits. But if you're just looking for general privacy protections or want access to unique features, Surfshark is still an excellent choice.ExpressVPN consistently demonstrates that it’s willing to push the boundaries and go above and beyond what most other VPNs deliver. ExpressVPN’s TrustedServer technology takes privacy a step further by reinstalling the entire software stack upon reboot in addition to wiping the server clean. This helps ensure no data is left on a hard disk while minimizing the risk of misconfiguration when a server is rebooted. ExpressVPN was also one of the first providers, alongside Mullvad, to implement post-quantum encryption to protect against future decryption threats from quantum computers, and it keeps up with the latest standards. As part of its post-quantum WireGuard rollout, ExpressVPN even published a white paper detailing its process to serve as a blueprint for other VPNs to follow. Surfshark also rolled out its post-quantum layer this year, which is now available on Windows, MacOS, iOS and Android when using the WireGuard protocol.Surfshark published its latest independent audit in June, its fourth overall and first since 2022. Deloitte’s audit report found that Surfshark does not keep logs of user activity and is accessible to Surfshark users online through their user account portal. By comparison, ExpressVPN has published 23 independent audits since 2018, far outpacing Surfshark and the rest of the competition. I also like how ExpressVPN makes its full audit reports accessible to the general public through its extensive Trust Center, rather than only to paying users who’ve submitted personal data for the privilege. It’s emblematic of ExpressVPN’s commitment to extreme transparency. Although independent audits don’t paint a full picture, they’re still important trust signals, and when done at such a steady clip, can be even more compelling.ExpressVPN is headquartered in the British Virgin Islands, a privacy-friendly jurisdiction outside of the Five, Nine and 14-Eyes data-sharing alliances. Surfshark is based in the Netherlands, which is part of the alliance and may therefore pose an issue for users with critical privacy needs because countries with intelligence-sharing agreements may comply with international requests for user information.ExpressVPN and Surfshark employ secure AES 256-bit and ChaCha20 encryption standards, along with critical privacy protections like a kill switch and DNS leak protection. Both VPNs also offer features that automatically change your IP address during your connection, making it more difficult for an adversary to track you online, though each provider’s feature operates slightly differently.Surfshark delivers a few extra privacy features that ExpressVPN doesn’t. Surfshark’s Dynamic MultiHop feature lets you select any two server locations from its network to tunnel through, encrypting your traffic twice instead of just once and adding an extra layer of privacy. And with Alternative ID, you can generate a whole fake persona, complete with full name, email address, physical address and birthdate to use on websites where you don’t want to share your personal information. A brand-new feature called Everlink, which Surfshark calls a “self-healing server infrastructure,” also helps the provider stand out from the pack. Essentially, Everlink works to automatically and seamlessly reconfigure the VPN tunnel in the event of a server failure or server maintenance. While Everlink could theoretically eliminate the need for a traditional kill switch, I’d recommend having Surfshark’s kill switch employed at all times, regardless, for an extra layer of privacy.Ultimately, these are useful features from Surfshark, but they don't totally make up for how far ahead ExpressVPN is on forward-thinking features and overall transparencyUsability winner: ExpressVPN is the easiest VPN to use across platformsExpressVPN’s apps are the simplest to use on virtually any platform, making the service an excellent choice for beginners. Express delivers a consistent, easy-to-use experience across most platforms -- although its Apple TV app is laid out a bit differently. Either way, none of ExpressVPN’s apps require any learning curve whatsoever, so even if you’ve never used a VPN before, you’ll have no trouble getting started. Surfshark is also incredibly easy to use across platforms, but its apps require just a little more getting used to than ExpressVPN’s because of its busier interface. That said, I like how you can easily access your recently used locations, fastest servers, closest country, static IP servers and multihop connections, right from the home screen. I also like how Surfshark allows you to pause your connection instead of disconnecting outright. This lets you temporarily jump off the VPN connection without the risk of forgetting to reconnect later on.ExpressVPN and Surfshark each offer apps for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Chromebook, Android, iOS, Fire TV, Android TV and Apple TV. I particularly like ExpressVPN’s updated iOS and Android apps, which include a few helpful upgrades that allow you to customize the look of the app and more easily navigate to recommended server locations and toggle settings like protocol selection and advanced protection features from the home screen. Both VPNs also work on routers, but ExpressVPN offers an unbeatable router app that makes it super easy to use the service on its own Aircove or other compatible router for whole network coverage or use on devices like Roku streaming devices that don’t natively support VPN apps. Both providers are also excellent choices for streaming geographically restricted content from around the world. However, ExpressVPN has an edge due to its flawless unblocking performance and its intuitive router app. During my latest streaming tests, ExpressVPN was able to unblock everything I tried on popular streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, HBO Max and Amazon Prime Video -- across all platforms I tested. Surfshark also performed admirably, but Hulu detected the VPN and blocked access to its content when I tried to stream on my Fire TV Stick -- although Surfshark did unblock Hulu on other platforms. ExpressVPN's vast global network of 11,500-plus servers across 105 countries eclipses Surfshark’s 3,200-plus servers across 100 countries. However, with Surfshark, you can connect an unlimited number of devices simultaneously, while ExpressVPN limits you to 10 simultaneous connections on its Basic plan, making Surfshark a better choice for large households or people with many devices.    Bottom lineIf you’re still undecided, know that ExpressVPN or Surfshark are two of the best VPNs available. Both are excellent all-around services that deliver strong privacy, fast speeds and top-notch usability. Which one you ultimately go with may come down to your budget, your privacy needs or your streaming requirements.For users with critical privacy needs, I recommend ExpressVPN because of its forward-thinking privacy protections, extreme transparency and privacy-friendly jurisdiction. I also recommend ExpressVPN for people who like to stream tons of international content because of the extensive reach of its server network paired with its outstanding unblocking capabilities. If you’re on a budget, I recommend Surfshark because the pricing on its long-term plans is much easier on the wallet than ExpressVPN’s prices -- and you still get a solid, premium VPN experience even though you’re paying considerably less. Surfshark is also an excellent choice if you want the specific benefits of features like Alternative ID or Dynamic MultiHop.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.