Trump links autism and Tylenol: is there any truth to it?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
22 September 2025
Trump links autism and Tylenol: is there any truth to it?
The US president repeatedly advised people, “Don't take Tylenol,” but scientists say that strong evidence between the medication and autism is lacking.
By
Helen Pearson &
Heidi Ledford
Helen Pearson
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Heidi Ledford
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Pregnant people have long relied on paracetamol for pain and fever. Credit: BSIP/Universal Images Group/GettyThe painkiller acetaminophen or paracetamol is one of the most widely taken drugs during pregnancy, used by roughly half of all pregnant people worldwide.But today the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced that it would slap a new warning label on the drug, citing a “possible association” between autism in children and the use of acetaminophen, also called Tyenol in the United States, during pregnancy. US President Donald Trump, however, was not as nuanced in his language: “Don't take Tylenol,” he said repeatedly in a widely anticipated announcement about autism. “Fight like hell not to take it,” he said.Autistic people show differences in social communication and interaction, and reported prevalence of autism has risen in some countries in recent decades. But many researchers who study autism caution that there is insufficient data to link autism and acetaminophen and that focusing on such a link is no more than a distraction.Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?“There is no definitive evidence to suggest that paracetamol use in mothers is a cause of autism, and when you see any associations, they are very, very small,” says James Cusack, chief executive of Autistica, a UK autism research and campaigning charity in London, who is autistic. “At the heart of this is people trying to look for simple answers to complex problems.”At today's announcement, US health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr, acknowledged that autism has many possible causes. FDA commissioner Martin Makary noted that, in some cases, insufficient transport of the nutrient folate into the brain has been linked with traits common in autism. The FDA today announced that it would initiate approval of a form of folate called leucovorin for people with low levels of folate in the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord. But Kennedy, a long-time anti-vaccine advocate, and Trump focused their attention today on two other factors that they said could be linked to autism: acetaminophen and vaccines. Decades of research have repeatedly found no reproducible link between vaccines and autism. “The evidence does not support a causal link between acetaminophen or vaccines and autism,” says Sura Alwan, a clinical teratologist at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada, and executive director of PEAR-Net Society, a nonprofit advocating for maternal fetal health and research. “Suggesting otherwise may fuel misinformation and undermine confidence in safe treatments and immunizations.”Here Nature examines the evidence for a link between acetaminophen, which is used to treat fever as well as pain, and autism.How strong are the data connecting autism and acetaminophen?Scientists say that the most robust research does not link autism and acetaminophen use in pregnancy. “The better controlled studies are less likely to find even a small risk,” says Helen Tager-Flusberg, a psychologist who studies autism at Boston University, Massachusetts, “And even then, what we’re talking about is a minor association. … We do not think that taking acetaminophen is in any way contributing to actually causing autism.”Working out whether there is a link between the drug and autism is difficult, says Viktor Ahlqvist, an epidemiologist at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm and co-author of what might be the biggest study1 on the link. The medication is available over the counter, so a lot of usage is not recorded in medical databases. This means researchers rely on self-reports, which can be unreliable.Confounding factors are an even bigger problem. Women who take paracetamol in pregnancy are usually in poorer health than those who don’t, perhaps because they had an infection or an underlying condition. Any apparent link between acetaminophen and autism might therefore be explained by these other health factors rather than the drug itself. Although scientists try to adjust for such confounders in their studies, such adjustments are “rarely sufficient,” Ahlqvist says. This is one reason why studies looking for a link have produced conflicting results.The study led by Ahlqvist harnessed data on nearly 2.5 million children born in Sweden between 1995 and 2019 and — from the country’s extensive health records — data on acetaminophen prescriptions during pregnancy and on self-reported use collected by midwives, as well as whether children later received autism diagnoses.The study showed that around 1.42% of children exposed to acetaminophen during pregnancy were autistic, compared to 1.33% of children who were not exposed ─ a “very small” difference, says Ahlqvist.The team also compared pairs of siblings (born to the same mother), one of whom had been exposed to acetaminophen and one who had not. Siblings share half of their genome, and share a similar upbringing and mother’s background health, so any detected difference in autism between siblings is more likely to be due to the drug. The researchers found no association between acetaminophen and autism using this method — which supports the idea that links found in other studies were really explained by confounding factors.Another large, high-quality study2 from Japan including over 200,000 children — also using sibling comparisons and published this year — found no link between acetaminophen use in pregnancy and autism.Are there any studies that do link the medication and autism?A review3 of studies published in August in the journal Environmental Health concluded that there is an association. But researchers interviewed by Nature point instead to the contrasting results of a review4 of high-quality studies on the topic. That review, published in February, concluded that “in utero exposure to acetaminophen is unlikely to confer a clinically important increased risk” of autism spectrum disorder.“There is no robust evidence or convincing studies to suggest there is any causal relationship and any conclusions being drawn to the contrary are often motivated, under-evidenced, and unsupported by the most robust methods,” Monique Botha, associate professor in social and developmental psychology at Durham University, UK, said in comments to the Science Media Centre, a UK press office.“We believe independent, sound science clearly shows that taking acetaminophen does not cause autism,” says a spokesperson for Tylenol’s manufacturer, Kenvue Inc. in Summit, New Jersey.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02876-1
ReferencesAhlqvist, V. H., et al. JAMA 331,1205-1214 (2024).
Google Scholar
Okubo, Y., Hayakawa, I., Sugitate, R. & Nariai, H. Paediatr. Perinat. Epidemiol. https://doi.org/10.1111/ppe.70071 (2025).
Google Scholar
Prada, D., Ritz, B., Bauer, A. Z. & Baccarelli, A. A. Environ Health. 24, 56 (2025).
Google Scholar
Damkier, P., et al. Obstet. Gynecol. 145, 168—176 (2025).
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
RFK Jr demanded a vaccine study be retracted — the journal said no
Childhood vaccines up for review in the US: what’s at stake
Cells that trim brain connections are linked to autism
Autistic people three times more likely to develop Parkinson’s-like symptoms
Subjects
Autism spectrum disorders
Politics
Public health
Epidemiology
Latest on:
Autism spectrum disorders
CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders
Article 17 SEP 25
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
News Feature 26 AUG 25
Mis-splicing of a neuronal microexon promotes CPEB4 aggregation in ASD
Article 04 DEC 24
Politics
Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
News 20 SEP 25
Harvard vs Trump: millions in grant money begin trickling back to scientists
News 19 SEP 25
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
News 17 SEP 25
Public health
Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
News 20 SEP 25
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
How billions of hacked mosquitoes and a vaccine could beat the deadly dengue virus
News Feature 16 SEP 25
Jobs
postdoctoral researcher
Molecular Mechanisms and Neural Circuits of Fear Memory, Maternal and Social Behavior. A recent PhD in molecular biology / neuroscience.
Piscataway, New Jersey
Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology Organisation: Nature Portfolio  Location: New York or Madrid  Application Deadline: Oc...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing Applicatio...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Department of Cell and Systems Biology University of Miami | Miller School of Medicine, Miami FL   The Department of Cell and Systems Biology at ...
University of Miami, Miami
University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Postdoctoral fellow at Tulane University Neuroscience, Cerebrovascular, Ischemia, Dementia, Traumatic brain injury.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research
Related Articles
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
RFK Jr demanded a vaccine study be retracted — the journal said no
Childhood vaccines up for review in the US: what’s at stake
Cells that trim brain connections are linked to autism
Autistic people three times more likely to develop Parkinson’s-like symptoms
Subjects
Autism spectrum disorders
Politics
Public health
Epidemiology
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited