You can claim up to $7,500 from AT&T's $177M data breach payouts - but the deadline is soon | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Security
You can claim up to $7,500 from AT&T's $177M data breach payouts - but the deadline is soon
Don't miss your chance. If you were affected by AT&T's data breaches, you can still file a claim to get your share. Here's how.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 12:34 p.m. PT
Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.
ZDNET's key takeaways
AT&T's $177 million settlement is for data breaches in 2019 and 2024.Claim up to $5,000 (first breach) and $2,500 (Snowflake hack), or both.File claim by Nov. 18, 2025, either online or by mail.If you're a current or former AT&T customer, you can now file a claim to be part of a $177 million class-action settlement over two major data breaches. But the deadline to file is quickly approaching. The breaches -- one dating back to 2019 and a second in 2024 -- exposed Social Security numbers, call and text records, names, addresses, dates of birth, and more.Also: AT&T customers will soon get their own AI receptionist to answer calls and block spamAT&T created two settlement funds: a $149 million pool for customers whose personal details were leaked in the first breach (announced March 2024) and a $28 million pool for those whose call and text logs were exposed in the Snowflake hack (July 2024).Kroll Settlement Administration, the firm managing the settlement, opened the claim process in August for affected customers so that they can be paid out from one or both funds. Here's how and when to file.
How much can I get from the settlement?
If you file a claim, you could receive up to $5,000 from the first fund (called AT&T 1 Settlement Class) and $2,500 from the second (AT&T 2 Settlement Class) -- so dual-breach victims might get as much as $7,500.
Also: 35 million Prime customers are due class action payment from Amazon - here's how much you can getYour exact payout will depend on how many people apply, but higher payments will be reserved for those who can prove any out-of-pocket damages. You'll need to submit documentation that's "fairly traceable" when you file a claim to be eligible for that higher payout. If you can't prove specific losses, you'll still share in what's left after documented-loss claimants are paid.
How do I know if I qualify? The settlement covers any current or former AT&T customer whose data was accessed in one of the breaches. If you're eligible, you'll receive a notice by email or physical mail from Kroll Settlement Administration.  Also: Preorder the iPhone 17 at AT&T and get up to $1,100 off now - here's howAccording to the settlement website, email notices were sent to customers from the address attsettlement@e.emailksa.com. The notices started rolling out on Aug. 4, 2025, and are expected to continue throughout autumn. If you believe you should be included in either part of the AT&T settlement but have not received anything yet, you can call the settlement administrator at 833-890-4930.
How to submit your claim
You can file a claim either online or by mail.
Online
Go to TelecomDataSettlement.com, click "Submit Claim," and have your Class Member ID (from your notice), AT&T account number (or full name), and an email address handy.
By mail
If you don't want to file the claim online, you can download and print the PDF forms for the first data breach, the second breach, or the overlap form if you were part of both breaches. Print, fill out, and sign the forms, then mail them to:
AT&T Data Incident Settlement
c/o Kroll Settlement Administration LLC
P.O. Box 5324
New York, NY 10150-5324
Also: Lock down your AT&T account to prevent SIM-swapping attacks - here's howJust make sure your mailed claim is postmarked by Nov. 18, 2025.
When is the deadline to file a claim?
Settlement claims need to be submitted by Nov. 18, 2025. If you disagree with the settlement and want to opt out so you can sue AT&T yourself, you'll need to do so by Oct. 17, 2025. The final approval hearing for the proposed settlement will be Dec. 3, 2025.
When will the payouts begin?If the proposed settlement is approved in December, payouts will likely begin in early 2026.
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026
Facebook's settlement payments are on the way - here's how much you can expect
Preorder the iPhone 17 at AT&T and get up to $1,100 off now - here's how
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use