About Nature Portfolio | Nature Portfolio
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
nature
nature portfolio
about nature portfolio
About Nature Portfolio
About Nature Portfolio
Nature and the Nature research journals
npj Series
Communications journals
Diversity Commitment
Journal Metrics
Press
Careers
Offices
Partnerships and Services
About Nature Portfolio
Nature Portfolio is here to serve the research community by publishing its most significant discoveries—findings that advance knowledge and address some of the greatest challenges that we face as a society today. Our journals publish not only primary research but also reviews, critical comment, news and analysis.
From Nature—the leading international weekly journal of science first published in 1869—to selective subject-specific subscription journals including Nature Genetics and Nature Physics and broad open-access journals such as Nature Communications and Scientific Reports, there is a home for your research within our family of journals. We're committed to providing more options for authors in the open access arena too. The Communications journals, a group of high-quality, selective, open access multidisciplinary journals, published their first articles in 2018. Our Nature Reviews titles showcase authoritative, accessible and significant review content. High-quality graphics and enhanced content provide context and explanation, whatever your discipline.
Every month, nine million people read news, analysis and commentary on nature.com. We are committed to developing the next generation of scientists through our backing for the Nature Awards for Mentoring in Science, the John Maddox Prize for Standing up for Science and the Nature Research Awards for Inspiring and Innovating Science.
Journal metrics
Information on peer review performance and citation metrics for the Nature Portfolio journals.
Press
For enquiries from science journalists and writers regarding content in the Nature Portfolio journals, and corporate press enquiries about Nature Portfolio's publishing activities.
Careers
The career site of Springer Nature, including current opportunities within our offices world-wide.
Our parent company
Nature Portfolio is part of Springer Nature. The main shareholders of Springer Nature are Holtzbrinck Publishing Group and BC Partners and details about corporate governance and board memberships can be found here.
Offices
Springer Nature has principal offices in London, New York, Berlin, Shanghai and Tokyo, and offices in cities worldwide.
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature Portfolio
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited