Starbucks Says Customers Can Ask for Political Names on Their Drinks - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Retail
Starbucks clears up confusion after barista refused to write Charlie Kirk's name on a cup
By
Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert
Starbucks baristas told Business Insider the company's conflicting policies around political notes on cups make them feel set up to fail.
Beata Zawrzel/NurPhoto via Getty Images
2025-09-18T15:20:19Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
A Starbucks barista cited policy when she refused to write Charlie Kirk's name on a customer's drink.
Policy calls for no political or pop culture references on cups, but allows customers to use fake names.
Baristas told Business Insider they feel stuck between corporate policy and the culture wars.
Starbucks says that customers can ask for political names on their drinks following a viral video in which a barista declined to write the name of assassinated conservative Charlie Kirk on a customer's cup.
Eight baristas told Business Insider that before the corporate clarification, they felt trapped between corporate policy, social media infamy, and, in some cases, their own personal beliefs when customers requested politically loaded names on their to-go cups.A Starbucks spokesperson told Business Insider that the company does not restrict customers who want to use a fake name on their order, even if that name is political. However, the company prohibits baristas from writing other political messages or pop culture references on drinks.
"We aim to be a community coffeehouse where everyone feels welcome, so we have previously provided guidance to our partners to respectfully ask the customer to use a different name when attempting to use political slogans or phrases in place of their name," Starbucks said in a statement published Wednesday. "We are clarifying with our team now that names, on their own, can be used by customers on their café order, as they wish."The statement was made in response to a TikTok video that went viral on Tuesday. The video showed a Starbucks customer requesting Kirk's name on their Mint Majesty tea, a nod to what the political commentator said in a July video was his favorite drink. The barista behind the counter declined the request to write Kirk's name, citing a corporate policy not to write political messages on cups, and offered instead to write "Charlie."The customer, who did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider, then told the barista to "forget it" and canceled the order.
After the TikTok clip was posted online, it gained traction on conservative social media accounts. It racked up hundreds of thousands of views across platforms and more than 4,000 comments on TikTok, and prompted an avalanche of negative Yelp reviews of the Starbucks store in Yucaipa, California. Many commenters said the barista should be fired.Kirk, a longtime ally of President Donald Trump's and a right-wing podcaster, was shot and killed on September 10 during an event at Utah Valley University in what authorities have called a "political assassination."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
While it's unclear how often Starbucks customers are making such requests of their baristas, several subsequent copycat posts have sprung up on social media, and some Kirk fans have begun posting online, calling for a boycott of the coffee brand.
While the most recent viral incident centered on Kirk, baristas told Business Insider that customers have made similar requests related to Trump, the war in Gaza, Black Lives Matter protests, and other social movements. They said it has become more common since cup notes became required."When things like this gain traction, they basically become a meme," one West Coast barista told Business Insider. "And I won't be the punchline."Baristas feel stuck in the middleSince CEO Brian Niccol took the helm in September 2024, the company has mandated that "meaningful" handwritten notes in Sharpie be added to each customer's to-go cup.
Eight baristas who spoke to Business Insider had varying interpretations of Starbucks' guidelines for writing political names on cups, based on what they were told by managers before Wednesday's clarification. Six said they believed they were prohibited, while two said they believed customer requests for political names on their orders would be acceptable under the policy.Six said the seemingly conflicting policies make them feel set up to fail when customers come in requesting political names written on their to-go cups.The baristas were granted anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly about Starbucks, but their identities are known to Business Insider. Many others have taken to posting online about how customers increasingly use them as characters in their social media posts about culture war topics. Starbucks has more than 350,000 global staff.
A Starbucks shift supervisor who has been with the company for over a year told Business Insider they would instruct the baristas in their store to refuse a customer request if they were uncomfortable, despite the risk of discipline or harassment."It puts baristas in a very uncomfortable position, given that we are at a workplace and would effectively be getting caught up in a customer's opinion that we may or may not agree with and cannot walk away from," a barista who has worked at Starbucks for more than six years told Business Insider.A New York-based barista who is a fan of Kirk said such a request wouldn't make them uncomfortable. "I do believe the people doing it are probably just trying to get a reaction out of Starbucks workers," they said.
An increasingly popular virality stuntRobert Post, a constitutional law professor and First Amendment scholar at Yale, told Business Insider that these types of viral social media issues become problematic for Starbucks because they result in negative publicity and put baristas in a "stressful situation.""You can't win for trying," Post said.Michael Goldberg, a professor of entrepreneurship and finance at Case Western Reserve University's Weatherhead School of Management, told Business Insider that if Starbucks doesn't clearly communicate the rules to in-store staff, it risks problems with retaining talent at a delicate time while striving to improve the customer experience and its stock performance.
Goldberg said the incident is an example of a company policy that aims to better connect the business with its customers, but has a messy rollout at the individual or store level. That messiness results in customers questioning the corporation's position "because these hundreds of thousands of baristas represent the company.""Retention of talent is paramount to a company like Starbucks — you're only as good as your employees are," Goldberg added. "And it seems as though people genuinely like working at Starbucks, but if they strip away all the things that are appealing about working there, there are many other retail establishments that are hiring, like McDonald's or Wendy's — are they writing notes on their burgers? Maybe Starbucks becomes less attractive."Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert at ktl@businessinsider.com or Signal at byktl.50. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Starbucks
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account