The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan — swathes of the country plunged into cyberspace darkness | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Cyber Security
The FCC wants to ban Chinese tech from the undersea cables that connect the U.S. to the rest of the world
Tech Industry
FCC proposal aims to nix long-term gigabit internet speed goals, pricing analysis
Cyber Security
China's Great Firewall blocked all traffic to a common HTTPS port for over an hour, severing connection to the outside world
Tech Industry
Red Sea undersea cable cuts that slowed internet over the weekend blamed on commercial shipping
Tech Industry
Multiple undersea cable cuts in the Red Sea, hampering internet performance
Network Providers
AOL will end dial-up internet service in September, 34 years after its debut
Cyber Security
Bizarre cyberattack blamed on Russia and China-linked hackers permanently breaks dozens of speed cameras in the Netherlands
Artificial Intelligence
China bans its biggest tech companies from acquiring Nvidia chips, says report
Networking
Taiwan increases defensive patrols around 24 undersea cables
Cyber Security
UK to ban making ransomware payments for some organizations
Cyber Security
China’s Great Firewall suffers its biggest leak ever as 500GB of source code and docs spill online
Cyber Security
DDoS scrubbing service ironic target of massive attack it was built to prevent
Tech Industry
China Tells Tech Giants to Halt Nvidia H20 Orders After U.S. Official’s ‘Addiction’ Remark
Networking
Ukraine to become first European country with Starlink direct to cell service
Networking
Is Wi-Fi bad for the environment? Eye-catching London ad suggests Wi-Fi is ‘damaging the climate’
Service Providers
Network Providers
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan — swathes of the country plunged into cyberspace darkness
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
22 September 2025
10 out of 34 provinces are affected, so far, with repercussions feared by the business and educational sectors.
Comments (20)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Getty / Weiquan Lin)
Afghanistan’s fiber networks are being disconnected by the governing Taliban. The reason for the ban on fast internet connectivity is to “prevent immorality,” according to a Taliban spokesman, as quoted by Sky News. As many as 10 out of 34 provinces in the country have already been affected, according to sources.⚠️ Update: Metrics show further declines to internet connectivity in #Afghanistan with parts of the country now falling offline; the Taliban measure curtails liberties recently gained by the public and women in particular to participate in society despite restrictions on movement pic.twitter.com/thaxpc90UZSeptember 17, 2025The order to enforce the internet ban seems to have been passed last week. Internet Observatory organization NetBlocks was quick to observe drastic declines in internet connectivity in several parts of Afghanistan. If you expand the above Tweet, you can see internet connectivity in Helmand, Kandahar, Kunduz, and Balkh drop off a cliff starting from around September 15.Some sources report that mobile networks are still operational in the provinces where the fiber services have been cut. However, this wireless alternative is slow and expensive.
You may like
The FCC wants to ban Chinese tech from the undersea cables that connect the U.S. to the rest of the world
FCC proposal aims to nix long-term gigabit internet speed goals, pricing analysis
China's Great Firewall blocked all traffic to a common HTTPS port for over an hour, severing connection to the outside world
While the shuttering of fiber networks seems to have started in the north of the country, local media reports indicate that the fiber ban will be rolled out nationwide.The Taliban spokesman quoted in the intro indicated that “an alternative will be built within the country for necessities.” This may suggest a network with pared-back bandwidth, possibly to allow easy communications, without the fast fiber-enabled transmission of high-quality streaming video, and so on. Alternatively, a plan to implement a tightly controlled domestic-only internet system, as used by the likes of North Korea, might be under consideration.Some Afghans have protested the “complete ban” on fiber internet that is in the midst of being implemented. Sky News quotes business owners who are very concerned about the effects of the internet restrictions. Of course, banks, online traders, and media organizations could all face dire effects. Other groups are worried about the potential impacts on girls seeking educational resources after being restricted from schools.“The Taliban measure curtails liberties recently gained by the public and women in particular to participate in society despite restrictions on movement,” observes NetBlocks.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.We’ll be keeping a close eye on NetBlocks for updates on Afghanistan’s internet connectivity in the coming days and weeks.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Internet
See all comments (20)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
The FCC wants to ban Chinese tech from the undersea cables that connect the U.S. to the rest of the world
FCC proposal aims to nix long-term gigabit internet speed goals, pricing analysis
China's Great Firewall blocked all traffic to a common HTTPS port for over an hour, severing connection to the outside world
Red Sea undersea cable cuts that slowed internet over the weekend blamed on commercial shipping
Multiple undersea cable cuts in the Red Sea, hampering internet performance
AOL will end dial-up internet service in September, 34 years after its debut
Latest in Network Providers
AOL will end dial-up internet service in September, 34 years after its debut
Starlink Wi-Fi shut down on all United regional jets
T-Mobile Fiber Home Internet officially launches in U.S.
Amazon's Starlink rival sees the first 27 satellites successfully reach low-earth orbit
China's Starlink competitor could be on equal footing by 2030: report
Starlink offers $9 a month 5GB data cap plan to Australian users
Latest in News
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
20 Comments
Comment from the forums
Makaveli
That is rather unfortunate for their citizens I hope they are able to find some kind of comprise.
Reply
call101010
who cares ?
Reply
hotaru251
call101010 said:who cares ?caring humans who don't let their prejudice against a places people make them ok w/ human suffering.
Reply
Grobe
Question : Can this also happens in a modern country over time - if a certain culture movement involving sharia gets a solid foothold ?
Reply
USAFRet
Grobe said:Question : Can this also happens in a modern country over time - if a certain culture movement involving sharia gets a solid foothold ?If the relevant "government" says so, yes.
Reply
CreatorGamer
Blanket lazy Censorship. Restrict the masses to a specific point of view, then... well I wish this is how complex RTS games were but nah, DOTA crap these days. I guess everyone has a platform these days....
Reply
SkyBill40
TaliBAN, no doubt. What a shame. It's hard to fathom how a nation would willingly put themselves behind technologically and educationally, but then again... it's not all that hard to understand given who is in power.
Reply
call101010
Grobe said:Question : Can this also happens in a modern country over time - if a certain culture movement involving sharia gets a solid foothold ?
Yes it can , and it does not need to be Sharia .. the Jewish Telmud for example is horrible , and try giving the Catholic Church back their power and watch ...
Reply
JeffreyP55
Admin said:Afghanistan’s fiber networks are being disconnected by the governing Taliban to 'prevent immorality.'
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan — swathes of the country plunged into cyberspace da... : Read moreThe way things are going backwards in my country, the whole damn internet will soon be banned. "We're making the pony express operational again."
Reply
Mr Majestyk
call101010 said:who cares ?That's all right, we hate the US too for re-empowering the Taliban
Reply
View All 20 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.