The Traveller Review Awards 2025
Skip to main content
GBP
Choose your currency.
Your current currency is Pound sterling
Choose your language.
Your current language is English (UK)
Get help with your reservation
List your property
Register
Sign in
Stays
Flights
Flight + Hotel
Car rental
Attractions
Airport taxis
Booking.com’s Traveller Review Awards 2025What are Traveller Review Awards?Booking.com’s Traveller Review Awards 2025 are about celebrating all the hard work that goes into a great stay or the perfect ride – that little bit of extra effort to make every moment special. We’re thrilled to celebrate the incredible hospitality and transport services of our partners around the world. To all of this year's winning partners – congratulations!Thank you to all Booking.com partners for going above and beyond for your guests and making their experiences memorable, and for customers who took the time to leave a review to share their outstanding experience.How are the Traveller Review Awards given?Based on a pool of over 360 million verified customer reviews on Booking.com, the 13th instalment of the Traveller Review Awards decided its winners.Review scores for the Traveller Review Awards 2025 are based on the average of all guest reviews published on our website and app between 1 December 2021 and 30 November 2024. We calculated each final review score on 1 December 2024 based on reviews received in the previous three years.Who can win these awards?All accommodation types are included in the Traveller Review Awards 2025, not just hotels – from apartments and holiday homes to cabins and villas. Beyond accommodation partners, we’re also celebrating the efforts of car rental providers and airport taxi providers in getting customers where they need to go.The Traveller Review Awards 2025Over 360M verified reviews1.71M award winners212 countries and territories13 years of Booking.com's Traveller Review AwardsWhy book with an award winner?Our Traveller Review Awards are all about celebrating partners who went above and beyond for guests to make their experiences memorable. The best properties get the best reviews. Selecting an award-winning property is a sure-fire way to ensure your stay will be top notch.A big congratulations to our winners!Not only your place to stay – find your way there on Booking.comHotelsFlightsCarsVacation rentalsDo you own a property?Learn more
List your property
Mobile version
Your account
Make changes to your booking online
Customer Service help
Become an affiliate
Booking.com for Business
Countries
Regions
Cities
Districts
Airports
Hotels
Places of interest
Homes
Apartments
Resorts
Villas
Hostels
B&Bs
Guest Houses
Unique places to stay
Reviews
Discover monthly stays
Travel articles
Seasonal and holiday deals
Traveller Review Awards
Car hire
Flight finder
Restaurant reservations
Booking.com for Travel Agents
Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs
About Booking.com
Customer Service help
Partner help
Careers
Sustainability
Press centre
Safety resource centre
Investor relations
Terms of Service
Partner dispute
How we work
Privacy & Cookie Statement
Cookie Settings
Manage cookie settings
Modern Slavery Statement
Human Rights Statement
Corporate contact
Content guidelines and reporting
Extranet login
Copyright © 1996–2025
Booking.com™. All rights reserved.
Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services.
Start of dialog content
Verified reviews from real guests.
We have more than 70 million property reviews, and they're all from real, verified guests.
How does it work?
1
It starts with a booking
It starts with a booking
The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property.
2
Followed by a trip
Followed by a trip
When guests stay at the property they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff are and more.
3
And finally, a review
And finally, a review
After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site.
If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first.
Sign in and leave a review
End of dialog content
Check-in date
Check-out date
«
»
MoTuWeThFrSaSu
Close calendar
Please sign in to continue
Sign in to your account
or use one of these options
Don't have an account yet? Create your account
2374450|1,2374380|5,2311730,2374450|5,2363720|5,2363720|1,2374380|1