11 hidden Fire TV remote shortcuts I use to unlock new features and menus | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
Streaming & Services
Streaming Devices
11 hidden Fire TV remote shortcuts I use to unlock new features and menus
With a special button combo on your Fire TV remote, you can quickly switch picture modes, zoom in, and more.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 19, 2025 at 3:00 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysHidden shortcuts unlock menus, resets, and fixes.Use button combos for quick reboots and resets.Access tools, settings, and accessibility in seconds.If you own a physical Amazon Fire TV remote, chances are you've only used it for the basics -- play, pause, rewind, select, and so on. Most people stick to loading their next show, controlling playback, doing simple navigation, and then call it a day. But did you know there are special button combinations you can press that let you do so much more with your Fire TV device?Also: Fire TV feeling slow? I changed these 10 settings to dramatically improve the performanceThese hidden remote shortcuts are fun to try and let you unlock menus, reset your device, reveal developer tools, and fix glitches -- all without digging through settings. Below are the most useful ones I've found, tested, and verified.
1. Adjust your display resolution Shortcut: Hold Up + Rewind for 5 seconds
Sometimes when you start or stop streaming in 4K Ultra HD, Amazon says your screen may flicker or go black for a few seconds. If that happens, or if your TV displays "unsupported format," press and hold the Up and Rewind buttons together on your Fire TV remote for 5 seconds. This will let you cycle through all the available resolutions (720p, 1080p, 4K) until you find one that works.When you see the resolution you want to try, just press Select on your Fire TV remote.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Restart your Fire TV Shortcut: Hold Select + Play/Pause for 3-5 seconds
If a streaming app freezes or the Fire TV interface starts lagging, one of the quickest and safest ways to reboot your device is by pressing and holding the Play/Pause and Select buttons together on your Fire TV remote for 3 to 5 seconds. The screen will go black and then your Fire TV will restart -- no need to unplug the power cable.Also: How to clear your TV cache (and why it makes such a big difference)
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Factory-reset from the remote (last resort) Shortcut: Hold Back + Right for 10 seconds
If you're selling your Fire TV device or it won't boot properly no matter what you've tried, there's a remote shortcut that triggers a factory reset. Just press and hold the Back button and the Right side of the navigation ring together for 10 seconds. Keep in mind this erases all your apps, logins, and data -- so only use it if you're sure.Once the reset is complete, on-screen instructions will appear for you to pair your remote again.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
4. Reset your Fire TV remote Shortcut: Hold Left + Menu + Back for 12 seconds
I've covered how to reset a Fire TV device, but what about the remote itself? Yes, you can do that too, directly from the remote. Press and hold the Left, Menu, and Back buttons at the same time for 12 seconds. After releasing them, wait 5 seconds, then remove the batteries. This process hard-resets most Fire TV remotes.Also: The Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED is great for gaming, but works just as well with Alexa
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
5. Pair (or re-pair) a Fire TV remote Shortcut: Hold Home for 10 seconds
If you've just factory-reset your Fire TV device or Fire TV remote, or your remote won't automatically pair for whatever reason, you can manually enter pairing mode by holding the Home button for 10 seconds. You'll need to be within 3 feet of your device, and you should see an on-screen confirmation once it connects.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
6. Open Quick Settings from anywhere Shortcut: Long-press Home for 5 seconds
Speaking of pressing the Home button... If you long-press the Home button on a paired Fire TV remote for 3 to 5 seconds, rather than 10, a Quick Settings menu will appear. This menu lets you jump into Wi-Fi, picture modes, profiles, sleep, mirroring, and more -- all without leaving what you're doing.Also: Why I recommend the Google TV Streamer over competing Roku and Amazon Fire modelsThe menu overlays on top of whatever you're watching or browsing, with your content still visible in the background, so there's no need to exit apps. It works from anywhere and makes switching settings easy.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
7. Change Picture mode Shortcut: Hold Home button, then select Picture
I've already mentioned how to launch Quick Settings, but one feature within it that's worth calling out is Picture mode. To access different modes and change them with your Fire TV remote, press and hold the Home button and then select Picture from the Settings menu. From there, you can choose a mode such as Vivid, Standard, Energy Saving, Sport, Game, Film Maker Mode, Movie Bright, or Movie Dark.Tip: If certain options don't appear, try playing content first, since the full menu may only show up while streaming or when an HDMI input is active.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
8. Show Text Banners (on-screen labels) Shortcut: Hold Rewind + Fast-Forward for 2 seconds
Text Banner is an accessibility feature that displays descriptive text for people with a restricted field of view or those who have difficulty seeing what's selected or being shown on their Fire TV screen. It consolidates on-screen text into a large, high-contrast banner. To toggle Text Banner on or off with your Fire TV remote, press and hold Rewind and Fast-Forward for two seconds.Also: A default TV setting is ruining your viewing experience - here's the quick fix that experts recommendTip: You can customize the font, box size, color, and even the position of the banner.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
9. Turn on Screen Magnifier (zoom) Shortcut: Hold Back + Fast-Forward
Need to zoom in a bit more to see certain interface elements? There's a remote shortcut that enables or disables Screen Magnifier. Once on, you can zoom or pan around the UI, too. To quickly toggle it on or off, hold Back and Fast-Forward on your remote for a couple seconds. Once it's enabled, use Menu + Fast Forward/Rewind to zoom in or out, and Menu + arrow keys to pan. Not all video content is compatible with zoom, however.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
10. Use VoiceView (screen reader) Shortcut: Hold Back + Menu for ~2 seconds
Amazon offers an accessibility feature called VoiceView that reads interface elements aloud. To toggle it on, just hold the Back and Menu buttons for 2 seconds. You should hear "VoiceView Ready" when the feature is activated and ready to use. When you turn the feature off, you'll hear "VoiceView Exiting."Also: I recommend this Amazon Fire TV soundbar to most people - here's why
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
11. Open Developer Tools menu Shortcut: Hold Select + hold Down for 4 seconds; release both, press Menu
The Developer Tools menu provides real-time metrics and other information useful for troubleshooting, development, and testing. As the name suggests, it's mainly for developers and may not be very helpful if you're not one. To open it with your remote, press and hold the Select button on the directional pad and the Down button. Keep holding both for about 3 to 4 seconds, then release them, and press the Menu button.Tip: If the above doesn't work, try pressing Select and then Down in sequence rather than at the same time.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQs
Do these shortcuts work on every Fire TV and every remote?
The shortcuts mentioned above should work on all current Fire TV remotes.  Also: Slow Fire TV? This 30-second fix made my system run like new againThat said, availability can vary by your Fire TV model, Fire OS version, and Fire TV remote. For example, some Developer Tools options aren't available on older hardware, and certain accessibility toggles require newer remotes and firmware. I suggest making sure your Fire TV's software is up to date, and that you have a newer Fire TV device and remote, before trying a remote shortcut.
How do I update my Fire TV device? To make sure your Fire TV software is up to date, go to Settings > My Fire TV (or Device and Software) > About > Check for System Update. If an update is available, it should install automatically. This Amazon support page details the latest Fire OS releases.
How many Fire TV remotes are there as of 2025?
Amazon sells several current Fire TV remotes, including Alexa Voice Remote (3rd Gen), Alexa Voice Remote Lite, Alexa Voice Remote Pro (with two customizable buttons and backlighting), and Alexa Voice Remote Enhanced (bundled with Fire TV Cube 3rd-gen).  Also: Roku vs Fire Stick: Which one is best for your streaming needs? Older Gen 1/2 remotes are discontinued.
My remote still won't pair. What now?
You can also use the Fire TV mobile app as a temporary remote.
Is there a remote shortcut to subtitles/CC?
No, but during playback on a TV show or movie, you can press Menu to open the Subtitles/Audio controls, then select Subtitles. It's not a long-press combo, but it's the quickest way.
Any Pro-only tricks?
The Alexa Voice Remote Pro adds two customizable buttons you can map to actions (apps, input switching, etc.). To assign an action, just press and hold 1 or 2 for five seconds.
Show more
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Is your Roku TV spying on you? It's possible, but here's how you can easily stop it
Slow Fire TV? 10 settings I changed to dramatically improve the performance
How to clear your TV cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use