Herpes simplex virus
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
Newsroom/
Fact sheets/
Detail/
Herpes simplex virus
Herpes simplex virus
30 May 2025
Key factsAn estimated 3.8 billion people under age 50 (64%) globally have herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection, the main cause of oral herpes.An estimated 520 million people aged 15–49 (13%) worldwide have herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) infection, the main cause of genital herpes.Most HSV infections are asymptomatic or unrecognized, but symptoms of herpes include painful blisters or ulcers that can recur over time.An estimated 205 million people aged 15–49 (5.3%) experienced at least one symptomatic episode of genital herpes in 2020 (1).Infection with HSV-2 increases the risk of acquiring and transmitting HIV infection.OverviewHerpes simplex virus (HSV), known as herpes, is a common infection that can cause painful blisters or ulcers. It primarily spreads by skin-to-skin contact. It is treatable but not curable.There are two types of herpes simplex virus. Type 1 (HSV-1) mostly spreads by oral contact and causes infections in or around the mouth (oral herpes or cold sores). It can also cause genital herpes. Most adults are infected with HSV-1. Type 2 (HSV-2) spreads by sexual contact and causes genital herpes. Most people have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. The infection can cause painful blisters or ulcers that can recur over time. Medicines can reduce symptoms but can’t cure the infection. Recurrent symptoms of both oral and genital herpes may be distressing. Genital herpes may also be stigmatizing and have an impact on sexual relationships.SymptomsMost people with herpes have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. Many people aren’t aware they have the infection and can pass along the virus to others without knowing.Symptoms can include painful, recurring blisters or ulcers. New infections may cause fever, body aches and swollen lymph nodes.Symptoms may be different during the first episode (or ‘outbreak’) of infection than during a recurrent episode. If symptoms occur, they often begin with tingling, itching or burning near where the sores will appear. Common oral herpes symptoms include blisters (cold sores) or open sores (ulcers) in or around the mouth or lips.Common genital herpes symptoms include bumps, blisters, or open sores (ulcers) around the genitals or anus.These sores and blisters are typically painful. Blisters may break open, ooze and then crust over. During their first infection, people may experience: feverbody achessore throat (oral herpes)headacheswollen lymph nodes near the infection.People can have repeated outbreaks over time (‘recurrences’). These are usually shorter and less severe than the first outbreak.Treatment Medicines are often used to treat first or recurrent symptomatic episodes (outbreaks) of herpes. They can decrease how long symptoms last and how severe they are, but they can’t cure the infection.Treatment for recurrent episodes is most effective when started within 48 hours of when symptoms begin. Antiviral medicines commonly given include acyclovir, famciclovir and valacyclovir.Taking a lower dose of one of these medicines every day (suppressive therapy) can also decrease how often symptoms occur.Daily treatment is often recommended for people who get very painful or frequent recurrent episodes or who want to lower the risk of giving herpes to someone else.Medicines to help with pain related to sores include paracetamol (acetaminophen), naproxen or ibuprofen. Medicines that can be applied to numb the affected area include benzocaine and lidocaine.Herpes simplex virus lives inside of nerve cells and alternates between being inactive and active. Certain triggers can reactivate the virus including:illness or feversun exposuremenstrual periodinjuryemotional stresssurgery.For people whose oral herpes is activated by sunlight, avoiding sun exposure and wearing sunscreen can lower the risk of recurrences. To decrease symptoms of oral herpes, people can: drink cold drinks or suck on popsiclesuse over-the-counter pain medicines.For genital herpes, people can:sit in a warm bath for 20 minutes (without soap)wear loose fitting clothesuse over-the-counter pain medicines. There are ways to lower the risk of spreading herpes including:talk to your partner about having herpesdon’t have sex if you have symptoms and always wear a condomdon’t share items that touched saliva (oral herpes). Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant, because there is a risk of passing herpes to your baby. Scope of the problemIn 2020 (last available estimates), 3.8 billion people under the age of 50, or 64% of the global population, had HSV-1 infection (oral or genital). Most HSV-1 infections are acquired during childhood to cause oral herpes. Around 10% of these (376 million) were estimated to be genital infections occurring in 15–49-year-olds.Genital herpes caused by HSV-2 affects an estimated 520 million (13%) people aged 15–49 years worldwide (2020 data). HSV-2 infects women almost twice as often as men because sexual transmission is more efficient from men to women. Prevalence increases with age, though the highest number of new infections are in adolescents and young adults.An estimated 205 million people aged 15–49 (5.3%) experienced at least one symptomatic episode of genital herpes in 2020. The majority of these people (92%) had symptoms related to HSV-2 infection. HSV-2 is much more likely than genital HSV-1 infection to cause recurrent symptoms.TransmissionHSV-1 is mainly transmitted via contact with the virus in sores, saliva or skin surfaces in or around the mouth. Less commonly, HSV-1 can be transmitted to the genital area through oral-genital contact to cause genital herpes. It can be transmitted from oral or skin surfaces that appear normal; however, the greatest risk of transmission is when there are active sores. People who already have HSV-1 are not at risk of reinfection with HSV-1, but they are still at risk of acquiring HSV-2.HSV-2 is mainly transmitted during sex through contact with genital or anal surfaces, skin, sores or fluids of someone infected with the virus. HSV-2 can be transmitted even if the skin looks normal and is often transmitted in the absence of symptoms. In rare circumstances, herpes (HSV-1 and HSV-2) can be transmitted from mother to child during delivery, causing neonatal herpes.Possible complications HSV-2 and HIV infectionHSV-2 infection increases the risk of acquiring HIV infection by approximately three-fold. Additionally, people with both HIV and HSV-2 infection are more likely to spread HIV to others. HSV-2 infection is among the most common infections in people living with HIV.Severe disease In immunocompromised people, including those with advanced HIV infection, herpes can have more severe symptoms and more frequent recurrences. Rare complications of HSV-2 include meningoencephalitis (brain infection) and disseminated infection. Rarely, HSV-1 infection can lead to more severe complications such as encephalitis (brain infection) or keratitis (eye infection).Neonatal herpesNeonatal herpes can occur when an infant is exposed to HSV during delivery. Neonatal herpes is rare, occurring in an estimated 10 out of every 100 000 births globally. However, it is a serious condition that can lead to lasting neurologic disability or death. The risk for neonatal herpes is greatest when a mother acquires HSV for the first time in late pregnancy.PreventionPeople with symptoms of oral herpes should avoid oral contact with others (including oral sex) and sharing objects that touched saliva. Individuals with symptoms of genital herpes should abstain from sexual activity while experiencing symptoms. Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 are most contagious when sores are present but can also be transmitted when no symptoms are felt or visible.For sexually active people, consistent and correct use of condoms is the best way to prevent genital herpes and other STIs. Condoms reduce the risk; however, HSV infection can still occur through contact with genital or anal areas not covered by the condom. Medical male circumcision can provide life-long partial protection against HSV-2 infection, as well as against HIV and human papillomavirus (HPV). People with symptoms suggestive of genital herpes should be offered HIV testing.Pregnant women with symptoms of genital herpes should inform their health care providers. Preventing acquisition of HSV-2 infection is particularly important for women in late pregnancy when the risk for neonatal herpes is greatest. WHO responseWHO is working to increase awareness about HSV infection and its symptoms, improve access to antiviral medications, and promote HIV prevention efforts for those with genital herpes, such as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). WHO and partners are also supporting research to develop new strategies for prevention and control of HSV infections, such as vaccines and topical microbicides. ReferencesHarfouche M, AlMukdad S, Alareeki A, Osman
AMM, Gottlieb S, Rowley J, Abu-Raddad LJ, Looker KJ. Estimated global and regional incidence and prevalence of herpes simplex virus
infections and genital ulcer disease in 2020: mathematical modelling
analyses. Sex Transm Infect. 2025 May 19;101(4):214-223. doi:
10.1136/sextrans-2024-056307. PMID: 39658199.
Related
PublicationsGHSS progress report 2024The diagnostics landscape for sexually transmitted infections, 2023WHO guidelines for the treatment of Genital Herpes Simplex Virus, 2016WHO preferred product characteristics for herpes simplex virus vaccines, 2019
Fact sheets
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
10 September 2025
Shingles (herpes zoster)
24 March 2025
Documents
herpes_zoster_evidence_decision_table
(451 KB)
More
Estimated global and regional incidence and prevalence of herpes simplex virus infections and genital ulcer disease in 2020: Mathematical modeling analyses, medRxiv 2024More about sexually transmitted diseasesGlobal STIs ProgrammeChickenpox: questions and answers
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO