Computer Science: Books and Journals | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Computer Science
We publish many prestigious journals in Computer Science, including a number of fully open access journals. Our book and eBook portfolio comprises conference proceedings, book series, textbooks and major reference works from distinguished authors, such as recipients of the Turing Award.
Well-known publications include: Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) as well as LNBIP and CCIS proceedings series, International Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), Undergraduate Topics in Computer Science (UTiCS) and the best-selling The Algorithm Design Manual. Society partners include the China Computer Federation (CCF) and International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP).
Subdisciplines
Artificial Intelligence
Communication Networks
Database Management & Information Retrieval
Human Computer Interaction
Image Processing, Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition & Graphics
Information Systems & Applications
Media Design
Security & Cryptology
Software Engineering
Theoretical Computer Science
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Publish with us
Selecting the right publisher is one of the most important decisions an author will make. At Springer, we recognize that our authors are the heart of what we do and we are committed to provide the resources, support and advice you need to help you succeed.
LNCS Hub
Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS)
The starting page for the Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) series and its sister series CCIS, LNBIP, LNICST, and IFIP AICT.
Volume editor information
This page provides  proceedings volume editors with guidelines, templates, and additional information
Author information
This page provides proceedings authors with instructions, templates, permission forms, and additional information.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature