Apple warns customers targeted in recent spyware attacks
News
Featured
Latest
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
LastPass: Fake password managers infect Mac users with malware
Airport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
American Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityApple warns customers targeted in recent spyware attacks
Apple warns customers targeted in recent spyware attacks
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 11, 2025
03:02 PM
0
Apple warned customers last week that their devices were targeted in a new series of spyware attacks, according to the French national Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-FR).
CERT-FR is operated by ANSSI, the National Cybersecurity Agency, and is responsible for preventing and mitigating cybersecurity-related incidents impacting public and critical organizations.
According to a Thursday advisory, CERT-FR is aware of at least four instances of Apple threat notifications alerting the company's users about mercenary spyware attacks that have occurred since the beginning of the year.
These alerts were sent on March 5, April 29, June 25, and last week, on September 3, to the phone numbers and email addresses associated with the users' Apple accounts. According to Apple, these warnings are also displayed at the top of the page after the user signs in to their account at account.apple.com.
"The notifications report highly sophisticated attacks, most of which employ zero-day vulnerabilities or require no user interaction at all," the cybersecurity agency said.
"These complex attacks target individuals because of their status or function: journalists, lawyers, activists, politicians, senior officials, members of management committees in strategic sectors, etc.
"Receiving a notification means that at least one of the devices linked to the iCloud account has been targeted and is potentially compromised."
While CERT-FR didn't share more information on what prompted these alerts, last month Apple released emergency updates to patch a zero-day flaw (CVE-2025-43300) that was chained with a WhatsApp zero-click vulnerability (CVE-2025-55177) in what the company described as an "extremely sophisticated attack."
In a threat notification sent to potentially impacted individuals at the time, WhatsApp urged them to reset their devices to factory settings and to keep their devices' operating systems and software up to date.
Apple also advises users who were targeted by mercenary spyware attacks to enable Lockdown Mode and request rapid-response emergency security assistance through Access Now's Digital Security Helpline.
"Since 2021, we have sent Apple threat notifications multiple times a year as we have detected these attacks, and to date we have notified users in over 150 countries in total," Apple says. "Apple does not attribute the attacks or resulting threat notifications to any specific attackers or geographical regions."
An Apple spokesperson was not immediately available for comment when contacted by BleepingComputer earlier today.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portalsApple backports zero-day patches to older iPhones and iPadsMicrosoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 daysiCloud Calendar abused to send phishing emails from Apple’s serversFrance slaps Google with €325M fine for violating cookie regulations
Apple
France
Spyware
Warning
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
CISA exposes malware kits deployed in Ivanti EPMM attacks
Sponsor Posts
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT