This delightful puzzle game is free to keep on the Epic Games Store, because not everyone got Silksong
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This delightful puzzle game is free to keep on the Epic Games Store, because not everyone got Silksong
Sources: Steam and Epic Games
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 5, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Did you grab Silksong today? Nah, me neither. I haven't even gotten around to beating the original Hollow Knight yet, so I still have that on my plate before I join the hordes of players adventuring with Hornet right now. But that's okay, because while everyone else is tucking into Silksong, we've got a cool puzzle game we can claim for free. It's called Monument Valley, and as part of the Epic Games Store End of Summer Sale, you can snag it for the low, low cost of nada. Once you've claimed it, it'll stay on your account forever; however, you only have a week to click the button, so be sure not to dawdle.
Monument Valley is free to keep on the Epic Games Store for a limited time
If you've never heard of the game, Monument Valley was originally a mobile exclusive, released back in 2014 for iOS and Android. However, the game finally made the jump over to Windows in 2022, and consoles in 2025, so now everybody can give it a go. The game is all about trying to navigate around terrain that uses illusions and impossible spaces to make things difficult, but all of them have a solution; you just have to find it. Here's how the game describes itself:
Discover Monument Valley - A quest for forgiveness in a strikingly beautiful and mysterious world.
Embark on a journey of forgiveness along with Ida, the silent princess, through impossible environments and illusionary puzzles. Experience this meditative and calming puzzle game by manipulating monuments and creating evolving paths to explore new, surreal, and mysterious worlds.
Interested? Well, if you head over to the Monument Valley page on the Epic Games Store and click the "Get" button before September 11th, you can add it to your account at no charge. And who can say no to a free game?
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
3 surprising things you can repurpose laptop batteries for
Sep 9, 2025
Immutable operating systems are a blessing and a curse
Sep 9, 2025
Avoid these 6 common Linux mistakes that beginners often make
Sep 9, 2025
After years of habit, I stopped overclocking my CPU, and I don't miss it at all
More from our brands
Hollow Knight: Silksong Is Real, I Just Played It
What time does Hollow Knight: Silksong release in your time zone?
Lost Soul Aside: All Trinket Locations
Stardew Valley: What Dwarf Scrolls Are (& Why You Should Collect Them)
The Epic Games Store Free Games For September 4 Are Big Adventures in Small Packages
Epic Games Store: A Comprehensive List Of Every Free Game It's Had To Date
Hollow Knight Silksong Platforms, Preorders, & Other FAQs
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
33 minutes ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This self-hosted collaborative markdown editor is our family’s new wiki
I replaced all my bash scripts with Python, and here’s what happened
I swapped Trello for Focalboard on my NAS, and it's so much better
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.