She lived to 117: what her genes and lifestyle tell us about longevity
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
24 September 2025
She lived to 117: what her genes and lifestyle tell us about longevity
Maria Branyas Morera was the oldest person in the world when she died. Scientists analysed her genes, metabolism and more.
By
Mariana Lenharo
Mariana Lenharo
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Maria Branyas Morera had been verified as the oldest living person when she died last year at age 117.Credit: Xavier Dengra (Public Domain)Maria Branyas Morera lived to the age of 117 with a bit of genetic luck and a healthy diet that included daily yogurts, according to a study published today in Cell Reports Medicine1. During her final year — she died on 19 August 2024 — she was verified as the oldest living person, a feat that drew the attention of researchers who explore the biology of ageing.“We wanted to learn from her particular case to benefit other people,” says Manel Esteller, a physician specializing in genetics at the University of Barcelona in Spain.What’s the secret to living to 100? Centenarian stem cells could offer cluesAt the time, Branyas was living in the small town of Olot, in the Catalonia region of Spain, where she enjoyed reading books, playing with dogs and spending time with friends and family, including her two daughters — each in their 90s. Over several encounters with Branyas and her family, Esteller and his colleagues collected samples of her blood, saliva, urine and stool that provided insights into her unique physiology, including her genetics, metabolism and gut microbiome.The supercentenarian was happy to collaborate. “She was a very humble person,” Esteller recalls. “She said: ‘My only merit is that I’m alive’.”The researchers compared Branyas’s genetic, metabolomic and other profiles with those of women of various ages living in the same region. One of the main insights from the work, Esteller says, is that it is possible to distinguish molecular changes that happen in the body because of ageing from those that occur because of poor health.For instance, the research team learnt that Branyas’s telomeres — the stretches of repetitive DNA that protect the ends of chromosomes — were exceptionally short. Telomeres naturally shorten with age, and unusually short telomeres have been associated with age-related diseases. But Branyas had no such illnesses. “This is telling us that the loss of telomeres is not necessarily associated with disease, it’s simply associated with being old,” Esteller says.Mayana Zatz, a geneticist at the University of São Paulo in Brazil who studies the genetics of healthy centenarians, says the study is thorough but notes that conclusions that are based on a single individual are limited. “It would be interesting to compare the findings with supercentenarians in other populations,” she says.Winning the genetics lottery
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03112-6
ReferencesSantos-Pujol, E. et al. Cell Rep. Med. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrm.2025.102368 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
What’s the secret to living to 100? Centenarian stem cells could offer clues
Ageing accelerates around age 50 ― some organs faster than others
Why eating less slows ageing: this molecule is key
Ageing is linked to inflammation — but only in the industrialized world
How quickly are you ageing? What molecular ‘clocks’ can tell you about your health
Subjects
Ageing
Genomics
Proteomics
Microbiome
Latest on:
Ageing
Genomics
Proteomics
A Chinese AI tool can manage chronic disease — could it revolutionize health care?
News 19 SEP 25
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
News 17 SEP 25
Diabetes drug shows anti-ageing effects on chromsomes
Research Highlight 05 SEP 25
A haplotype-based evolutionary history of barley domestication
Article 24 SEP 25
Ancient DNA clarifies the early history of the Slavs
News & Views 03 SEP 25
Multiple overlapping binding sites determine transcription factor occupancy
Article 03 SEP 25
SMART tool builds proteins on cell surfaces
Technology Feature 30 JUL 25
Ageing accelerates at around age 50 ― some organs faster than others
News 25 JUL 25
One potent gene raises risk of Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and other brain diseases
News 15 JUL 25
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
What’s the secret to living to 100? Centenarian stem cells could offer clues
Ageing accelerates around age 50 ― some organs faster than others
Why eating less slows ageing: this molecule is key
Ageing is linked to inflammation — but only in the industrialized world
How quickly are you ageing? What molecular ‘clocks’ can tell you about your health
Subjects
Ageing
Genomics
Proteomics
Microbiome
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited