5 things I love about MacOS 26 Tahoe after one week with it on my Mac | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mac OS
5 things I love about MacOS 26 Tahoe after one week with it on my Mac
MacOS 26 'Tahoe' is now live, and besides the visual design overhaul, there are a handful of impactful new features. Here are the five best.
Written by
Kyle Kucharski, EditorEditor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 12:18 p.m. PT
AppleFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple's latest update for MacOS 26, codenamed "Tahoe," is here, and it's full of new visual design elements like Apple's Liquid Glass design theme, better integration with the iPhone, a more robust Spotlight feature with Shortcuts, and a more personalized desktop.In fact, the theme of all of Apple's updates this year is streamlining both the visual UI and feature sets across Apple devices, while making more apps and features available on them, punctuated by Apple Intelligence.
Also: The best MacBooks of 2025: Expert tested and reviewedI've been using MacOS Tahoe on my MacBook Pro for the past few days, and I'm already enjoying the updates. In fact, despite the visual design overhaul, I'd argue that some of the most impactful updates are the less flashy ones -- like adding widgets to the desktop and the new shortcuts that work with Spotlight.
Here are the top five best features of MacOS 26.
1. The Phone app on Mac
AppleThe Phone app has finally arrived on MacOS, allowing for a more streamlined user experience between your iPhone and your MacBook. You can now access recent calls and contacts synced from your iPhone, and make calls with a single click in the same way. What's more, the Phone app will include the new features added in iOS 26, including Hold Assist and Call Screening.
Also: New to MacOS? 8 beginner tips and tricks to try first -- and whyIn addition to calls and contacts, live activities from the iPhone will be visible on your Mac, such as tracking an Uber or a delivery from Seamless. Clicking on the live activity will open iPhone Mirroring, which will allow you to take action directly from your Mac. It's a smart way to streamline your devices, and one that's long overdue.
2. Liquid Glass and visual consistency
AppleApple dropped a major visual overhaul for iOS with its Liquid Glass design theme, and then brought many of those updates to MacOS. The new design aesthetic touches all aspects of MacOS Tahoe, but its customizability also allows for a more subtle style.
The dock, sidebars, and toolbars have been redesigned in the same translucent look that's intended to show more content on screen without UI clutter. In addition, you'll see rounded elements and added dimensionality, with transparency settings that give the effect of elements being stacked on top of one another.
Also: What is Liquid Glass? Here's everything we know about Apple's major UI overhaul at WWDCIn terms of the UI, you can also adjust how folders look in Finder or on the desktop. Just Ctrl + Click on a folder and click "Customize Folder" to bring up the menu. You can change their colors and names, and even add emojis to them, which may seem silly but work like the icons you've been able to add in Windows all along.
There are also lots of new wallpapers, and just like the iPhone, Macs will support light or dark mode, all-clear icons, and dock themes, as well as customized color tones to match your personal style.
3. A smarter, more powerful Spotlight
AppleMacOS 26 adds a handful of smart integrations for the Spotlight feature. Instead of just being a simple search bar, Apple's updates make it a more powerful control panel that works with Shortcuts, understands natural language, and can take app-specific actions.
For example, during the WWDC keynote, we saw a demo in a photo editing app, with the user adjusting the color tone by searching for that function in Spotlight. In a complex app like Photoshop, for example, if you can't find a specific function, Spotlight could step in to act as a top-level search function.
Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's the best buy for youIn supporting additional productivity features, Spotlight will also contain clipboard history and allow you to create automations in conjunction with Apple Intelligence to make complex actions like summarizing text or creating images. You can access Apple Intelligence models on your device or ChatGPT.
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETIn this vein, the new Quick Keys feature allows you to assign commonly accessed commands their own hotkeys with the Actions menu. Here's how to do it:
Press Command + Space to bring up the Spotlight prompt.Press Command 3 to bring up Actions.Start typing in natural speech to formulate a prompt like "Send a message to Ashlie."It will then make several suggestions. Use the arrow keys to select the right one, and on the right side, you'll see an "Add quick key" text box. Enter a basic string there like "sm." Going forward, when you invoke the Actions field, you can just type "sm" and it will text that contact.
4. A more personalized desktop
One of the most impactful changes is also one of the simplest: you can now add widgets to the desktop instead of keeping them relegated to the Notification Center.
I'm not a huge fan of stacking the screen with widgets, but having the basics at a glance, like Weather, the Calendar, and World Clock, on the desktop is an efficient way to reduce clicks. The semi-translucent design also makes for a cleaner look.
Also: Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)The new Control Center is also fully customizable, just like on the iPhone and iPad, allowing you to choose which features you want to see and set how much space they take up. I set it up to mirror my iPhone's, with the Calculator on the bottom right and Bluetooth and Wi-Fi on the top left, and it's made it a lot easier to quickly find essential settings I click multiple times a day.
Some of the Apple Intelligence features that debuted on the iPhone will now be available in MacOS, including a more robust, personalized Siri. Apple is also opening up MacOS 26 so third-party developers can start creating apps that actually integrate with Apple Intelligence. It's a smart move, allowing some breathing room to further innovate on its own AI features (which some say have fallen behind competitors'), while allowing external developers to bring useful AI functions to the Mac.
5. Better Shortcuts
AppleThe updates to Spotlight and Quick Keys are made even more powerful when combined with Shortcuts in Tahoe. The examples I gave above are just the tip of the iceberg, but users can create rather complex Shortcuts that trigger when something happens or at a certain time of day. One of the most simple applications of this comes with the Automations feature -- having your MacBook swap to "Do Not Disturb" at 9:00 am, for example.
But you can also set up more complex actions, like having the MacBook provide you with a Morning Summary, which summarizes the weather, reminders, and scheduled events for the day at a certain time, or when you connect to your office's Wi-Fi or connect a certain accessory. Even better, the Shortcuts' updated visual menu includes lots of examples for a starting point to explore the functionality.
Let's talk compatibility
All of these updates sound great, but not every Mac will be compatible with MacOS 26 Tahoe. Older Macs with Intel processors, unfortunately, will not support the new OS version. This means any Mac with an M1 processor or later can run MacOS 26, but most devices from before the 2020 mark will not.
Also: How to install the MacOS 26 beta on your Mac (and which models support it)This move all but seals the deal on phasing out older Intel-based models, something we've been expecting from Apple for a while. If you do have a Mac computer with an Intel processor, you can still run the previous MacOS release, Sequoia, or its predecessor, Sonoma, depending on how old your device is.
Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
iPhone battery worse after updating to iOS 26? Here's why, and how I fixed it
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use