Hacktoberfest 2025
Back to blog
Hacktoberfest 2025
Kris Stern
September 24, 2025
Share
The annual Hacktoberfest is back!
Please join us as we celebrate and support open-source during the month of October.
Contributors can earn badges and improve their open source contribution skills.
The Jenkins project will participate once again in the event.
We invite you to contribute to the Jenkins project but also, as maintainers, to welcome and help newcomers.
Contributors
This is what contributors need to know to participate and complete Hacktoberfest:
Register on the event website anytime between September 15 and October 31
Pull requests can be made in any jenkinsci or jenkins-infra GitHub repository that’s participating in Hacktoberfest (look for the "hacktoberfest" topic in the repo)
Project maintainers must accept your pull requests for them to count towards your total
Have a total of 6 high-quality pull requests accepted between October 1 and October 31 to complete Hacktoberfest
You will unlock a digital badge when you register for Hacktoberfest, and level it up with each of your 6 pull requests accepted during Hacktoberfest
Jenkins’ specific details can be found on the Jenkins Hacktoberfest page.
Some good resources for beginners can be found here:
Good first issues in Jenkins repositories:
jenkinsci
jenkins-infra
Intro to open source
GitHub: How to contribute to Open Source
DigitalOcean: Introduction to GitHub and Open Source Projects
DigitalOcean: What is Open Source
DigitalOcean: How to use Git: A Reference Guide
Sharpen your skills
GitHub training kit
Understanding the GitHub flow
Introduction to GitHub and Open-Source Projects
How to advance your career by contributing to open source projects
How to write the perfect pull request
How to write a good commit message
The “improve a plugin tutorial” is an introduction to contributing to Jenkins.
Maintainers
Jenkins plugin maintainers can prepare for Hacktoberfest contributions by following these best practices:
Add the "hacktoberfest" topic to your repository to opt in to Hacktoberfest and indicate you’re looking for contributions.
Only add the "hacktoberfest" topic to your repository if you are willing to promptly review Hacktoberfest pull requests
Add a CONTRIBUTING.md file with contribution guidelines to your repository
Apply the "good-first-issue" label to GitHub issues you want contributors to help with in your GitHub project
Add the “newbie-friendly” label to Jira issues that are well suited to new contributors
Choose issues that have a well-defined scope and are self-contained
Be ready to review pull requests, accepting those that are valid by merging them, leaving an overall approving review, or by adding the "hacktoberfest-accepted" label
Reject any spammy requests you receive by labeling them as "spam" and any other invalid contributions by closing them or labeling them as "invalid"
hacktoberfest
event
community
newcomer
outreach-programs
About the author
Kris Stern
Kris has been helping out with Jenkins' GSoC participation organization since 2022 and has volunteered to be a GSoC project mentor. She has participated in GSoC twice as a contributor/student previously in 2019 and 2020, and has been trained academically as an astrophysicist with a PhD in the discipline of observational astronomy obtained from the University of Hong Kong in 2021. Professionally, Kris works in the IT sector as a software engineer. She has work experiences in Python, C++, Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, HTML, CSS/Sass, JQuery, SQL, and has completed projects in software development in general and specifically in artificial intelligence/deep learning/computer vision, Qt programming, and web development. Kris is passionate about open-source and would like to share this passion with fellow learners. Currently, Kris is a part-time MCIT Online student at UPenn.