Our Expert Picks for the Best Adjustable Mattresses of 2025 - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Our Expert Picks for the Best Adjustable Mattresses of 2025
Looking for a bed that can adapt to your changing sleep needs? Here are the two best adjustable beds, handpicked by CNET’s sleep editors.
Our Experts
Written by
Taylor Leamey
Written by
McKenzie Dillon
Article updated on April 16, 2025 at 7:00 AM PDT
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
McKenzie Dillon Writer McKenzie, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been writing sleep content in the wellness space for over four years. After earning her certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, she has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest.
Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, McKenzie has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. McKenzie has also been a guest on multiple radio shows including WGN Chicago as a sleep expert and contributed sleep advice to over 50 different websites. Expertise Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach, Bachelor of English.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests12345 Testers5706707708709701,0701,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With over five years of mattress-testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Your sleep quality depends a lot on your bed, and a good bed can make all the difference. However, not everybody sleeps the same way every night. Do your sleep needs change from night to night? In that case, you may be stuck trying to decide what kind of bed to get. If that sounds like you, the best adjustable beds might be the answer: They let you change the firmness levels as per your needs. Our Picks
How we sort our mattresses
How it works
To ensure we give you the best search experience, our selection of mattresses can be sorted in 4 different ways:
• Recommended • Highest price: $$$ - $ • Lowest price: $ - $$$ • Branded: Alphabetical
Sort by
Filter by
Firmness
Firmness
Select all
Soft (1-4)
Only
Medium (5-8)
Only
Firm (9-10)
Only
Clear
Sleep style
Sleep style
Select all
Back
Only
Combination
Only
Side
Only
Stomach
Only
Clear
Mattress type
Mattress type
Select all
Hybrid
Only
Memory foam
Only
Air mattress
Only
Clear
Best adjustable mattress for couples Saatva Solaire
Jump to details
$4,599 at Saatva
Jump to details
Best adjustable mattress for hot sleepers Sleep Number ClimateCool
Jump to details
$5,749 at Sleep Number
Jump to details
MATTRESSES DEALS OF THE WEEK
Big Fig — Labor Day Extension Sale (Use Code FIG15 for Up to 15% off Mattresses):  $1,614 (save $285)
Novilla Euro Top 12-inch Gel Memory Foam Mattress (King Size):  $315 (save $56)
Novilla Gel Top 14-inch Memory Foam Mattress (Queen Size):  $300 (save $41)
Novilla Euro Top 10-inch Hybrid Mattress With Comfy Support (Queen Size):  $159 (save $22)
Serta Tight Top 12-inch Hybrid Medium Sleeptrue Mattress (Full Size):  $408 (save $72) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Our Expert Picks for the Best Adjustable Mattresses of 2025
Best adjustable mattresses of 2025
Best adjustable mattress for couples
Best adjustable mattress for hot sleepers
Best adjustable mattresses compared
Factors to consider when choosing the best adjustable mattress
How we test adjustable mattresses
Other mattresses we've tested
For the sake of this list, I’m defining an adjustable mattress as a bed that lets you change how firm or soft it is. Relying on the collective experience of CNET's team of sleep experts, with over 300 beds tested and reviewed over the years, we've picked the best adjustable beds to get right now. There aren't a lot of options on the market and many of them come with hefty price tags. If that doesn't sound like an issue, here are the best adjustable beds to help you get total control over your sleep.Best adjustable mattresses of 2025I’ve rounded up the two best adjustable mattresses on the market. But first, let me define an adjustable mattress. For this list, I’m reviewing mattresses that allow you to adjust the firmness of your bed in real-time with an app or remote. This is different from adjustable bed frames and bases, which elevate the head and foot of a mattress. The beds on this list customize the firmness and do not change the elevation independently.What We Updated: April 2025We added Saatva Solaire and Sleep Number ClimateCool mattresses and removed several products that were no longer relevant.
Saatva
Photo Gallery 1/5
Saatva
Best adjustable mattress for couples
Saatva Solaire
8.9
/10
SCORE
Pros
White glove delivery so you don’t have to worry about setup
Big selection of sizing, including upper-flex queen and king
Remote for easy adjustments
Cons
Expensive at $4,199 for a queen
The firmest setting isn’t as firm as other beds out there
The Saatva Solaire is a luxury air mattress that combines latex foam, memory foam and internal air chambers to provide a comfortable and customizable feel. The adjustable firmness makes it suitable for just about anyone. However, our testing found that it doesn’t achieve extreme firmness.Why we chose this bed: The Saatva Solaire has 50 firmness settings on either side, allowing you to adjust the bed’s firmness to your exact preferences using the included remote. This is a game-changing feature for couples with different sleeping preferences to agree on a bed. Because of the customization, this bed is virtually suitable for any sleeping position. The Saatva Solaire can hold up to 800 pounds on each side.This adjustable mattress has a layer of memory foam above the air chambers that allow you to alter the feel of the bed. On top of that, there’s a layer of latex foam. If you know anything about foams, then you know memory foam tends to be slow-moving, while latex foam is super responsive and springs back. These contrasting feels cancel out and give the bed a neutral feel, complemented by the quilted European pillow top. While testing this adjustable mattress, we found it to have solid edge support and excellent motion isolation, making it a good choice for couples. If you want more adjustments and are willing to spend more, this bed is also available in upper-flex queen and king sizing, which pairs with the Saatva adjustable base.Who should get this bed: People looking for a luxury-style adjustable mattress with a neutral feel will like the Saatva Solaire. I see it being a good choice for just about any sleeper, as long as you can afford to spend $4,199 for a queen.Who shouldn’t: When testing customizable mattresses, you expect to see the full range of firmnesses. The Saatva Solaire doesn’t deliver on the extreme end of firmness. We found it to max out at medium-firm to firm or eight on our scale. This isn’t bad for the average person but people who want an extremely firm bed will want to look elsewhere.  ... Show more
Get it now
$4,599 at Saatva
Specs & Configurations
Type
Luxury air mattressFirmness
Customizable firmness levelTrial
365 nightsWarranty
Lifetime Score Breakdown
Performance
9
Policies
8.5
Durability
8
Features
10
Learn more
Saatva Solaire review
Add to compare
Aly Lopez/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Aly Lopez/CNET
Best adjustable mattress for hot sleepers
Sleep Number ClimateCool
Pros
Customizable firmness
Cooling features are great for hot sleepers
Tracks your sleep and can help you improve your sleep quality
Cons
Advanced bases cost more
We wouldn’t describe the feeling of the bed as “plush”
The Sleep Number ClimateCool mattress is the best adjustable mattress for hot sleepers because of its airflow system. It’s easily one of the most customizable beds I’ve seen. Why we chose this bed: Like the Saatva Soliare, the ClimateCool adjustable mattress from Sleep Number combines customizable air chambers with layers of foam. This bed focuses on cooling, so in addition to the airflow system designed to keep you cool, there is ceramic gel in the bed, too.“Sleep Number's ClimateCool smart bed is a great choice for partners with different sleep preferences. Each side of the bed is customizable with adjustable temperature and firmness levels. Many couples disagree on the ideal firmness (my partner and I included), but very few mattresses offer firmness adjustability, which sets Sleep Number apart,” says Aly Lopez, CNET writer.An app that connects to your mattress allows you to adjust the firmness and temperature, along with other features that depend on your base. I’d describe the feel of this bed as an airy, memory foam feel. You get some of the slow, sinking sensation you expect from memory foam but it’s not too viscous. The most significant barrier to the Sleep Number Climate Cool mattress is its price: A queen costs $5,749. That said, the ClimateCool mattress comes with a base. Sleep Number offers three options; the Integrated base won’t add any extra cost but if you want head and foot adjustments or under-bed lighting, you’re looking at a total of $7,249.Who should get this bed: I’d recommend this adjustable mattress to anyone who wants to get technical about their sleep. In addition to allowing for firmness customization on each side, the Sleep Number ClimateCool mattress also automatically responds to your movements and tracks your sleep.Who shouldn’t: This is not a budget bed. Even with the price including a base, a minimum of $5,749 isn’t affordable. So unless you’re into getting granular about your sleep or are a hot sleeper who needs temperature control, I don’t know how practical this bed is.  ... Show more
Get it now
$5,749 at Sleep Number
Specs & Configurations
Type
Luxury air mattressAdjustable
Customizable firmness levelTrial
100-nightsWarranty
15-year limited warranty
Add to compareBest adjustable mattresses compared
Mattress brand Mattress typeFirmnessPrice (Queen)TrialWarrantySaatva Solaire
Luxury hybrid air bedCustomizable$4,599365 nightsLifetime warrantySleep Number ClimateCool Luxury hybrid air bedCustomizable$5,749100 nights15-year limited warranty
Factors to consider when choosing the best adjustable mattress
Adjustable mattress vs adjustable baseThe beds on this list are considered adjustable mattresses because they allow you to change their firmness in real-time. That’s different from an adjustable base that changes the incline of the sleeping position but doesn't impact the firmness you experience. The terms can sometimes be used interchangeably, but they are distinct. Customizable beds adjust the firmness of the mattress, while adjustable bases adjust the position of the mattress.Adjustable bases or bed frames have several potential health benefits, like reducing snoring, lessening acid reflux symptoms and alleviating back pain. However, they’re best suited for people who sleep on their backs. Some side and stomach sleepers may have trouble sleeping comfortably because of how the base raises the head or foot of the bed. Most beds can be used with an adjustable base, so if you’re looking to adjust the positioning of the head or foot of the bed, you want an adjustable base.Read more: Best Adjustable Bed Frames and BasesIf you find that there are times when you want a softer bed and other times when you want a firmer bed, you want a customizable bed that lets you alter the firmness. The best mattresses in this category are the Saatva Solaire and the Sleep Number ClimateCool. Sleep Number has several other models, too. How we test adjustable mattresses
CNET editors pick the products and services we write about based on editorial merit. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Our Mattress Smasher 9000 testing a bed. Dillon Lopez/CNETFirmness: How firm a bed feels is very subjective and will depend on how much pressure you put on the bed. In addition to hands-on testing, CNET has recently developed a method to measure a mattress’ true firmness: a machine dubbed the Mattress Smasher 9000. This proprietary device and corresponding software were developed in-house by our lab technicians. It presses into the middle of the mattress and scores each bed on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the firmest and 1 being the softest. We also test each bed personally for perceived firmness and feel, we have data from the MS9000 to back up our conclusions.Feel: We get physical with the mattress and see what the material feels like. This is different from firmness. Depending on the foam and materials of a mattress, we see if the bed is bouncy, slow-responding, pressure-relieving or plush and fluffy.Durability: It's difficult to tell exactly how long each bed will last because we don't test it for years on end. We can hypothesize a bed's firmness by looking at its construction. Hybrid or innerspring beds are more durable and last longer than foam mattresses.Best body type: Based on a person's body weight, we determine how accommodating a mattress is. We use different-sized sleepers to test the beds and focus heavily on a bed's construction.Best sleeping position: Using different sleepers, we test the mattress in each sleeping position: side, back and stomach.Motion isolation: We use two people to test how well motion transfer across the bed is deadened, or place a glass of water at the edge of the bed to see how much it moves if we bounce around.Edge support: We analyze the construction and physically lay on the sides of the mattress to get a gauge of how supportive it feels.Temperature: Instead of getting fancy, we rely on our own experience sleeping on the bed and a temperature gun. We can tell if a bed is cooling, breathable or hot by sleeping on it for a few nights.Smell: Mattresses in a box emit a smell once they're unpackaged like a new car does. Don't worry, it won't stick around. The smell will go away after 24 to 48 hours. Some beds emit less of an odor than others.Read more on how we test mattresses. Other mattresses we've tested
The CNET sleep team has tested over 300 beds collectively. Our experience allows us to curate the best mattress lists like this one and pick the beds that stand out. There aren’t many adjustable mattresses on the market, though other beds pair well with adjustable bases. You won’t be able to customize the firmness, though the base will change the sleeping elevation.Casper One Mattress: The Casper mattress is an affordable all-foam mattress with a denser feel you expect from memory foam, though you don’t sink in as much. It’s got a firmer profile, so I really only recommend it for back and stomach sleepers.Brooklyn Bedding Signature: This is a pretty basic hybrid mattress, but it has a quality design with a surprisingly low price tag for a bed with coils. The Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid bed has three different firmness levels to choose from, so anyone can sleep on it.
Best adjustable mattress FAQs
Do adjustable bed frames help with snoring?
Yes. Adjustable beds allow you to elevate your head, removing pressure on the back of your throat and opening up your airways and nasal passages, which eases snoring. They also improve circulation and relieve joint pain.
What type of mattress is best for an adjustable base?
Most bed-in-a-box mattresses are compatible with adjustable bases, but the best kind are ones that are flexible and allow for increased movement. Hybrid mattresses or beds with coils fit with adjustable bases, as well as latex foam, poly foam and memory foam beds.
What are the disadvantages of an adjustable bed frame?
There are a ton of reasons you might want an adjustable bed. There are also a few disadvantages you should consider. First, stomach sleepers may have a hard time sleeping on an adjustable bed frame. Adjustable bases tend to be more expensive than traditional options, they also can be heavy and hard to move once they are put together.
How long will the average adjustable mattress last?
Generally, you can get about 10 years out of an adjustable mattress. As long as it is properly cleaned and maintained, it may even get a few more years out of it. This will depend on the quality of the mattress purchased.
Do you need an adjustable mattress for an adjustable bed frame?
No, you don't need an adjustable mattress for your adjustable bed frame to use it. However, it is likely to shorten the lifespan of said mattress and, overall, it is considered a better idea to use an adjustable mattress.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer
Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach.
Read full bio
Also written by
McKenzie Dillon Writer
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.