Late-Night Has a Message for Trump: We're Going to Keep Talking - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Entertainment
Late-night show hosts are sending a message to Trump: They'll be thorns in his side for as long as they can be
Analysis by
Cheryl Teh
The most prominent voices in late-night just aren't keeping quiet about President Donald Trump.
Phillip Faraone via Getty Images; Araya Doheny/WireImage via Getty Images; Kevin Winter via Getty Images
2025-09-24T06:51:47Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Late-night show hosts sent a clear message to Trump on Tuesday night: We're not going anywhere.
Jimmy Kimmel returned to his show on ABC and slammed Trump and the FCC's Brendan Carr.
Other late-night hosts also held the line with criticizing Trump.
The arena of late-night comedy is a cutthroat one, with warring timeslots and competing comedians jockeying for a slice of the viewership pie. But when one of their own is threatened, the pack rises to the occasion.
We saw that this week when "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" got hit with a suspension from ABC following his comments on the killing of the conservative podcaster Charlie Kirk. And that happened, too, when "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" was scheduled for cancellation.For a hot minute this week, when ABC appeared to cave to pressure from the chair of the Federal Communications Commission, Brendan Carr, President Donald Trump looked to be gaining ground in his war on late-night comedy. The president hasn't been shy about how much talk-show hosts and comedians annoy him. He has called them talentless and urged their networks to fire them.
Yet they're still here — for now — and they won't shut up.Late-night is a unified frontJon Stewart, the longtime late-night great, approached the Kimmel issue head-on in two monologues in the past week. On Thursday's episode of 'The Daily Show," he put on a satire-laden dedication to America's "great leader" Trump, blasting the administration's stance on free speech.And on Monday, Stewart went all-in with his commentary on Trump. In his monologue, he joked about the disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein, an ongoing PR nightmare for the Trump administration. Then he issued a rallying call for people to "fight like hell" to defend "our constitutional republic," a signal that the work is far from done regardless of Kimmel's return.
On John Oliver's Sunday episode of "Last Week Tonight," he acknowledged that he isn't bound to some of the limitations his fellow network-based comedians are because HBO airs his show. The British-born comedian took advantage of that freedom to deliver a half-hour dissection of the Kimmel chaos.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Kimmel is "by no means the first casualty in Trump's attacks on free speech," he said."He's just the latest canary in the coal mine," Oliver said. "A mine that at this point now seems more dead canary than coal."
And, of course, there were laughs as well on Tuesday night.The soon-to-be-canceled Colbert returned to regular programming during much of his monologue. He dedicated his airtime to ridiculing Trump's performance at the UN General Assembly. Then he poked fun at the president's pronunciation of the word "acetaminophen" and called Trump's claims about Tylenol and pregnancy "crazy."The joke train kept rolling over at "The Daily Show," where Stewart's colleague Jordan Klepper made more jokes about Trump's joint press conference with Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
As for Kimmel, his triumphant return to late-night came with its share of emotional moments. He clarified that he never meant to make light of Kirk's death. He also sent love to Kirk's family, as he had in a social media post that predated the fracas.Then he pivoted and threw punch after punch at Trump and Carr."This show is not important. What is important is that we get to live in a country that allows us to have a show like this," Kimmel said.
Kimmel added, too, that he was lucky to live in a country where freedom of speech is a constitutional right."And that's something I'm embarrassed to say I took for granted until they pulled my friend Stephen off the air and tried to coerce the affiliates who run our show in the cities that you live in to take my show off the air," Kimmel said."That's not legal. That's not American. That is un-American, and it is so dangerous," he said. "I want you to think about this. Should the government be allowed to regulate which podcasts the cellphone companies and WiFi providers are allowed to let you download to make sure they serve the public interest? You think that sounds crazy?"
In Kimmel's monologue, he also called Carr an embarrassment and said the FCC head's statements about his show were "a direct violation of the First Amendment."It's safe to say that late-night isn't done talking. And with the battle lines drawn, it's unclear how Disney and other networks with vocal hosts plan to navigate this ongoing dogfight.Trump has sounded a warning. Before Tuesday night's shows aired, he wondered on Truth Social whether he could reap another multimillion-dollar bounty by suing ABC.
"I think we're going to test ABC out on this," Trump wrote. "Let's see how we do."
Recommended video
analysis
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account