The best business VoIP services in 2025: I hand-picked the top VoIP phone systems | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: August 2, 2025 at 2:25 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Updated on: August 2, 2025 at 2:25 AM PDT
Best business VoIP services 2025: Our top VoIP solutions for businesses of all sizes, ranked
Basic business telephony isn't enough in today's day and age. Discover my top VoIP providers for creating robust telephony services that meet your customers' needs.
Written by
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends RingCentral | The best VoIP service for business overall
The best VoIP service for business overall
RingCentral
View now View now 8x8 | The best VoIP phone system for call quality
The best VoIP phone system for call quality
8x8
View now View now Intermedia Unite | The best VoIP for integrations, Microsoft Teams users
The best VoIP for integrations, Microsoft Teams users
Intermedia Unite
View now View now DialPad | The best VoIP service for AI applications
The best VoIP service for AI applications
DialPad
View now View now Nextiva | The best VoIP service for remote, hybrid work
The best VoIP service for remote, hybrid work
Nextiva
View now View now
RingCentral RingEX | Save up to 33% when you pay annually
Save up to 33% when you pay annually
RingCentral RingEX
View now View now Zoom
Zoom
View now View now Line2
Line2
View now View now GoTo Connect
GoTo Connect
View now View now Grasshopper
Grasshopper
View now View now
Show more (5 items)
RingCentral RingEX | Save up to 33% when you pay annually
Featured Deal What is this?
Save up to 33% when you pay annually
RingCentral RingEX
View now View now
Today's
services software Deals*
20% Off Privacy Protection Plans With Code "PARTNER20":  $536 (save $134)
Exclusive Deal: 55% Off Incogni Individual Annual Plan With Code "ZDNET":  $162 (save $198) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Cloud-based Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)
phone systems offer far more than traditional, analog business telephony services. In the business world, VoIP is now an expected standard solution for managing a business's communication needs. It's convenient, often affordable, scalable, and can be bolstered by smart features such as smart routing. Whether you're looking for VoIP, text messaging, video conferencing, collaborative tools, or an entry-level solution suitable for a growing business, there is a massive range of providers to choose from. These are the best providers on the market that combine business calling with advanced features, scalability, and value for money.What is the best business VoIP provider right now?ZDNET's top recommendation for a business VoIP provider is RingCentral. Available from $20 per user per month, RingCentral provides a high-quality VoIP service that businesses of almost any size will appreciate. It also offers valuable optional extras like AI transcription. If you're a smaller business looking for a VoIP service that provides the essentials, you could opt for DialPad's service instead. This is a more affordable option at $15 per seat per month, and it still excels at the basics. Also: The best password managers for businesses: Expert testedWhen I compiled my top choices, I sought out the experiences of ZDNET authors and users themselves. I also considered the reputation and history of each VoIP provider on our list ensuring that I only selected vendors who provide the services and features businesses need today.
Sort by
All
The best business VoIP Services of 2025 Show less
View now at RingCentral RingCentral is one of the most well-known and respected VoIP services in the U.S., and for good reason.Why we like it: Used by more than 400,000 businesses worldwide, RingCentral provides team messaging and collaboration tools, text messaging, call quality analytics, fax, call recording, cloud storage, and even an AI-backed transcription service.RingCentral provides more than just a VoIP phone system. You can take advantage of a huge variety of additional extras. After you create a free account, you can set up a business line with your existing phone number, create a new, business-only line, or select a toll-free number.Who's it for: Business users may find this option particularly interesting, especially if they are on the smaller side. Customer feedback on call quality indicates that it is generally reliable, although some customers reported call drops. RingCentral's IP phones only require a
connection, but if you are having issues, it's worth investigating whether or not end-user hardware is appropriate. In addition, check whether or not your internet speeds can support the right number of phones. You can test capacity .Plans begin at $20 per month per user. The entry-level plan includes domestic calling, SMS texting, HD meetings, voicemail, as well as Google and Microsoft integrations. Premium plans begin from $20 per user per month.Who should look elsewhere: Customers say they like the features and services on offer, but many feel that billing practices could be improved. Furthermore, customer service needs improvement. If you think you will need frequent on-call support, this isn't likely to be the best option for you.  RingCentral features: Variety of line options | Video meetings | Team collaboration suite | Mobile apps | AI tools | 24/7 support (mixed reviews)
Pros
Video meetings
Omnichannel customer service platforms
Mobile apps
AI tools including a robust transcription service
Cons
Advanced features locked to expensive plans
Customer service needs improvement
RingCentral The best VoIP service for business overall
RingCentral is one of the most well-known and respected VoIP services in the U.S., and for good reason.Why we like it: Used by more than 400,000 businesses worldwide, RingCentral provides team messaging and collaboration tools, text messaging, call quality analytics, fax, call recording, cloud storage, and even an AI-backed transcription service.RingCentral provides more than just a VoIP phone system. You can take advantage of a huge variety of additional extras. After you create a free account, you can set up a business line with your existing phone number, create a new, business-only line, or select a toll-free number.Who's it for: Business users may find this option particularly interesting, especially if they are on the smaller side. Customer feedback on call quality indicates that it is generally reliable, although some customers reported call drops. RingCentral's IP phones only require a
connection, but if you are having issues, it's worth investigating whether or not end-user hardware is appropriate. In addition, check whether or not your internet speeds can support the right number of phones. You can test capacity .Plans begin at $20 per month per user. The entry-level plan includes domestic calling, SMS texting, HD meetings, voicemail, as well as Google and Microsoft integrations. Premium plans begin from $20 per user per month.Who should look elsewhere: Customers say they like the features and services on offer, but many feel that billing practices could be improved. Furthermore, customer service needs improvement. If you think you will need frequent on-call support, this isn't likely to be the best option for you.  RingCentral features: Variety of line options | Video meetings | Team collaboration suite | Mobile apps | AI tools | 24/7 support (mixed reviews)
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at 8x8 If call quality is your top priority, consider 8x8's VoIP services. It's gathered solid customer reviews related to call quality, soft phone usage, and interoperability.Why we like it: 8x8's website and sales approach could do with an overhaul, especially when you consider that many competitors are transparent about pricing. Given its high levels of positive reviews for call quality, 8x8 is still a top contender in the VoIP space. 8x8 focuses on unified communications, offering customers the chance to go beyond VoIP. These expansion opportunities include adopting multi-channel and global support, call center and agent functionality, appointment scheduling, collaborative tools, AI, and centralized management via an admin console. You can also set up a Private Branch Exchange (PBX), which allows you to create an internal switchboard as well as accept calls from outside the network.Who's it for: A number of small to medium-sized businesses will find this solution meets their needs, but it should be noted that a vast number of complaints relate to 8x8 support. Still, if call quality is king, 8x8 might be your best bet.Who should look elsewhere: Anyone who is new to VoIP services might find that the support does not adequately meet their requirements, and so you might be better off with a different solution. Furthermore, a definitive price requires you to contact sales, although reports suggest pricing begins at roughly $24 per user per month, depending on customer needs. This lack of transparency may deter some users. 8x8 features: Custom plans | Enterprise-grade features | Robust APIs | Business app integration | Multi-channel | Mobile compatibility
Pros
Custom plans
Private Branch Exchange (PBX)
Microsoft Teams integration
Call center functionality
Omni-channel
Cons
A lack of pricing transparency
8x8 The best VoIP phone system for call quality
If call quality is your top priority, consider 8x8's VoIP services. It's gathered solid customer reviews related to call quality, soft phone usage, and interoperability.Why we like it: 8x8's website and sales approach could do with an overhaul, especially when you consider that many competitors are transparent about pricing. Given its high levels of positive reviews for call quality, 8x8 is still a top contender in the VoIP space. 8x8 focuses on unified communications, offering customers the chance to go beyond VoIP. These expansion opportunities include adopting multi-channel and global support, call center and agent functionality, appointment scheduling, collaborative tools, AI, and centralized management via an admin console. You can also set up a Private Branch Exchange (PBX), which allows you to create an internal switchboard as well as accept calls from outside the network.Who's it for: A number of small to medium-sized businesses will find this solution meets their needs, but it should be noted that a vast number of complaints relate to 8x8 support. Still, if call quality is king, 8x8 might be your best bet.Who should look elsewhere: Anyone who is new to VoIP services might find that the support does not adequately meet their requirements, and so you might be better off with a different solution. Furthermore, a definitive price requires you to contact sales, although reports suggest pricing begins at roughly $24 per user per month, depending on customer needs. This lack of transparency may deter some users. 8x8 features: Custom plans | Enterprise-grade features | Robust APIs | Business app integration | Multi-channel | Mobile compatibility
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at IntermediaView now at Intermedia (Teams) If you plan to use a VoIP service for collaborative purposes, you will want to explore Intermedia Unite services.Why we like it: Intermedia Unite stands out from the crowd with features like mobile and desktop apps, auto attendance, call transfers, three-way calling, voicemail transcription, archiving, team chat, video meetings, and analytics. It's particularly useful for Microsoft Teams users, with a standalone plan on offer for Teams and collaborative purposes. In terms of integrations, you can use Intermedia Unite software with other third-party apps including Slack, Chrome, Zoho CRM, Salesforce, and Zendesk. In March, the company introduced , a support system for customer support agents, including real-time analytics and information retrieval. Who's it for: Considering the popularity of Microsoft Teams and this service's focus on interoperability, I consider this one of the best options for existing Teams users. Customers like the reliability and call quality of the VoIP service and note there is rarely any downtime. Two plans are available: Unite Pro and Unite Enterprise, separated into subscriptions for Teams or United. Plans start at $23 per user per month, but keep in mind that some features -- including AI assistance and video conferencing -- are only available on premium plans, which start at $28 per user per month.Who should look elsewhere: Anyone who wants up to 200GB of file storage for each user, as this is only available on the top-tier plan. If Microsoft Teams is not part of your existing business ecosystem, you may also want to investigate other solutions.Intermedia Unite features: Free calling to 33 countries | Mobile support | Mix and match licensing | Three-way calling | Spam blocking | HD video meetings | Free device promotion
Pros
Strong country call network
Team chat tools
Mobile support
AI agent technologies
Free devices for new customers
Cons
AI restricted to premium plans
Intermedia Unite The best VoIP for integrations, Microsoft Teams users
If you plan to use a VoIP service for collaborative purposes, you will want to explore Intermedia Unite services.Why we like it: Intermedia Unite stands out from the crowd with features like mobile and desktop apps, auto attendance, call transfers, three-way calling, voicemail transcription, archiving, team chat, video meetings, and analytics. It's particularly useful for Microsoft Teams users, with a standalone plan on offer for Teams and collaborative purposes. In terms of integrations, you can use Intermedia Unite software with other third-party apps including Slack, Chrome, Zoho CRM, Salesforce, and Zendesk. In March, the company introduced , a support system for customer support agents, including real-time analytics and information retrieval. Who's it for: Considering the popularity of Microsoft Teams and this service's focus on interoperability, I consider this one of the best options for existing Teams users. Customers like the reliability and call quality of the VoIP service and note there is rarely any downtime. Two plans are available: Unite Pro and Unite Enterprise, separated into subscriptions for Teams or United. Plans start at $23 per user per month, but keep in mind that some features -- including AI assistance and video conferencing -- are only available on premium plans, which start at $28 per user per month.Who should look elsewhere: Anyone who wants up to 200GB of file storage for each user, as this is only available on the top-tier plan. If Microsoft Teams is not part of your existing business ecosystem, you may also want to investigate other solutions.Intermedia Unite features: Free calling to 33 countries | Mobile support | Mix and match licensing | Three-way calling | Spam blocking | HD video meetings | Free device promotion
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Dialpad If you're interested in harnessing artificial intelligence for your VoIP needs, consider DialPad. Why we like it: AI is one of the hottest buzzwords in the industry. Lofty claims of AI power need to be taken with a pinch of salt, but VoIP providers are still putting these technologies to good use.DialPad is affordable and focuses on AI applications to improve productivity, streamline operations, and manage customer relationships. You can use AI to help you manage call and meeting summaries, as well as call transfers, and post-call surveys, team coaching, live call categorization, and to develop business-related responses to queries. AI-based "assist cards" are also available to help your operators in real-time.Who's it for: This service describes itself as a communications platform but focuses on streamlining VoIP, business operations, and customer support through artificial intelligence. While customer feedback on support is a mixed bag, users note the intuitive nature of the platform and its excellent features. This is the ideal option for customers seeking to discover how AI-based VoIP can benefit their businesses. Who should look elsewhere: DialPad's pricing begins at $15 per user per month. However, the basic plan is limited. If you want features like customer relationship management software integrations, single sign-on (SSO), or Microsoft Teams integration, you must opt for a package starting at $25 per user per month or look elsewhere.DialPad features: AI-focused | CRM integrations | Call transcription | Messaging services | Video meeting | CRM integration | Analytics and reporting | Enterprise plans available
Pros
AI focus
Clean and intuitive interface
AI feedback scorecards
Real-time analytics, call transcriptions
Cons
Basic plan features are limited
DialPad The best VoIP service for AI applications
If you're interested in harnessing artificial intelligence for your VoIP needs, consider DialPad. Why we like it: AI is one of the hottest buzzwords in the industry. Lofty claims of AI power need to be taken with a pinch of salt, but VoIP providers are still putting these technologies to good use.DialPad is affordable and focuses on AI applications to improve productivity, streamline operations, and manage customer relationships. You can use AI to help you manage call and meeting summaries, as well as call transfers, and post-call surveys, team coaching, live call categorization, and to develop business-related responses to queries. AI-based "assist cards" are also available to help your operators in real-time.Who's it for: This service describes itself as a communications platform but focuses on streamlining VoIP, business operations, and customer support through artificial intelligence. While customer feedback on support is a mixed bag, users note the intuitive nature of the platform and its excellent features. This is the ideal option for customers seeking to discover how AI-based VoIP can benefit their businesses. Who should look elsewhere: DialPad's pricing begins at $15 per user per month. However, the basic plan is limited. If you want features like customer relationship management software integrations, single sign-on (SSO), or Microsoft Teams integration, you must opt for a package starting at $25 per user per month or look elsewhere.DialPad features: AI-focused | CRM integrations | Call transcription | Messaging services | Video meeting | CRM integration | Analytics and reporting | Enterprise plans available
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at NextivaView now at Nextiva One Nextiva is a great VoIP option if you're looking for a solution focused on multi-channel support with the flexibility for hybrid and remote work.Why we like it: According to Nextiva, their "AI-powered Unified-CXM platform delivers personalized experiences throughout the entire customer journey." Marketing fluff aside, the company specializes in multi-channel customer support and services.Customers now expect businesses to provide multiple channels for communication, not just traditional phone lines. As such, even Nextiva's basic plans -- Digital and Core -- include calls to the U.S. and Canada, social media channels, messaging apps, SMS, email, and web chat. To help budding startups, Nextiva monitors review sites, forums, and blogs for brand-associated content.Consider Nextiva digital communication first, VoIP second. Who's it for: It's an excellent option for multi-channel support, including VoIP, although you must choose the right plan for toll-free numbers, routing, and callbacks. Customers generally applaud the Nextiva onboarding service and appreciate the support on offer.Subscriptions begin at $25 per user per month on the Nextiva Engage plan. The company also offers Core, a cheaper alternative solution at $15 per user per month. Who should look elsewhere: Nextiva has another plan, NextivaONE, which is potentially a better option if you are an emerging business and you want to keep a tight rein on costs. For the equivalent of $15 per user per month, the annual plan -- suitable for up to 10 seats -- includes business calling, texting, video meetings, contact routing, and social media tools. Nextiva features: Unified comms: social media channels, messaging apps, and more | Toll-free numbers | Skill-based routing | AI workflows | Video meetings | Payment gateways
Pros
Multi-channel
Video meetings
Flexible plans
Cheap startup contracts
Social media suite
Cons
Some VoIP features locked in advanced plans
Nextiva The best VoIP service for remote, hybrid work
Nextiva is a great VoIP option if you're looking for a solution focused on multi-channel support with the flexibility for hybrid and remote work.Why we like it: According to Nextiva, their "AI-powered Unified-CXM platform delivers personalized experiences throughout the entire customer journey." Marketing fluff aside, the company specializes in multi-channel customer support and services.Customers now expect businesses to provide multiple channels for communication, not just traditional phone lines. As such, even Nextiva's basic plans -- Digital and Core -- include calls to the U.S. and Canada, social media channels, messaging apps, SMS, email, and web chat. To help budding startups, Nextiva monitors review sites, forums, and blogs for brand-associated content.Consider Nextiva digital communication first, VoIP second. Who's it for: It's an excellent option for multi-channel support, including VoIP, although you must choose the right plan for toll-free numbers, routing, and callbacks. Customers generally applaud the Nextiva onboarding service and appreciate the support on offer.Subscriptions begin at $25 per user per month on the Nextiva Engage plan. The company also offers Core, a cheaper alternative solution at $15 per user per month. Who should look elsewhere: Nextiva has another plan, NextivaONE, which is potentially a better option if you are an emerging business and you want to keep a tight rein on costs. For the equivalent of $15 per user per month, the annual plan -- suitable for up to 10 seats -- includes business calling, texting, video meetings, contact routing, and social media tools. Nextiva features: Unified comms: social media channels, messaging apps, and more | Toll-free numbers | Skill-based routing | AI workflows | Video meetings | Payment gateways
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at RingCentral Empower every employee with Al-powered calls, messages, and meetings across devices with RingCentral RingEX. With RingEX, you can connect with local, toll-free, and international numbers from anywhere, get up and running in minutes without service interruptions, and access 24/7 support and carrier-grade reliability worldwide. Get a free quote today and start saving up to 30%.
RingCentral RingEX Save up to 33% when you pay annually
Empower every employee with Al-powered calls, messages, and meetings across devices with RingCentral RingEX. With RingEX, you can connect with local, toll-free, and international numbers from anywhere, get up and running in minutes without service interruptions, and access 24/7 support and carrier-grade reliability worldwide. Get a free quote today and start saving up to 30%.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is a VoIP phone system?
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) allows you to make a phone call through the internet rather than traditional phone lines, also known as analog lines.If you've already used WhatsApp calling or Zoom, you have used a VoIP system. Your voice is translated into data and then converted back into sound, a regular phone signal, before it reaches an end device. Typically, you will need an internet connection, a router, and a device capable of handling VoIP communications such as a dedicated VoIP handset, a smartphone, or a PC.VoIP is gradually replacing analog Private Branch Exchange (PBX) systems, used by companies to operate phone switchboards and extension numbers. VoIP services can reduce the cost associated with physical lines. They also utilize the cloud to scale up capacity as well as handle internal, domestic, and international calls. VoIP is also very useful for hybrid and remote working setups, as VoIP-ready phones or apps can replace traditional office phone lines.
Show more
What is the best business VoIP provider of 2025?
Below you will find some of the most important factors to help you decide on the best VoIP option for you.Business VoIP providerCost (starts at)Call quality feedbackVideo conferencingAIRingCentral$20 per user per monthExcellentYesYes8x8$24 per user per monthExcellentLimited by planLimited by planIntermedia Unite$23 per user per monthGoodLimited by planLimited by planDialPad$15 per user per monthGood Limited by planYesNextiva$15 per user per monthGoodLimited by planLimited by plan
Show more
Which is the right business VoIP provider for you?
Choose this business VoIP provider…If you want or need...RingCentralThe best business VoIP provider overall. RingCentral goes beyond basic VoIP and provides employee tools, artificial intelligence, and more.8x8The best business VoIP provider for call quality. 8x8 is pushing toward the enterprise market and omnichannel functionality.Intermedia UniteA feature-rich, reasonably priced VoIP option geared toward Microsoft Teams. You can take advantage of VoIP as well as video conferencing, AI, analytics, and a range of call center features.DialPadAn AI-first VoIP solution. DialPad leverages automaton and AI to help you manage calls, meetings, analytics, and feedback.NextivaA multi-channel VoIP solution suitable for remote work. Nextiva's modern approach will likely appeal to startups and small businesses.
Show more
How did I choose these business VoIP providers?
While compiling the list of the best VoIP providers in 2025, I considered the following factors:Scalability: VoIP services suitable for business users must be scalable. There's no point in starting small to cap costs and then being unable to expand as your business grows. Cost: Ongoing costs are a factor when a business makes any form of investment. The VoIP providers I have chosen must meet different budgetary needs.Features: I want to see VoIP providers offer more than barebones service. I have included solutions that provide features like transcription, video conferencing, chat, and analytics. Mobile: Mobile connectivity is a staple for communication today, and it is important that VoIP providers offer customers some form of mobile support.AI: In general, we like to see VoIP providers leverage new and emerging technologies in interesting ways. Regarding VoIP, features like AI-assisted transcription can be a real benefit for customers. Support: With any business-based service, you expect some form of customer support, whether by chat, email, telephone, or live help. The best options will provide a variety of channels for customer troubleshooting.Customer feedback: I have examined and researched each VoIP provider to learn how existing customers feel about the services provided.
Show more
What are the most important VoIP features for your business?
If you're considering replacing a traditional analog setup or starting off with VoIP, consider these VoIP features and what the most important aspects are for your business.Call management: You might want an automatic or smart system that handles call routing and processing for you. This could include virtual waiting rooms, voicemail and transcription services, grouping, and messaging. Capacity: Consider whether you need high-volume capacities for your VoIP system. A benefit of VoIP is that it is generally scalable based on the number of seats you require and how many calls you expect to handle. Reach: Some VoIP services are limited to domestic calling such as within the U.S. and Canada only, and others may charge for international calling. Many businesses now also prefer softphone capacity, which allows customers to reach out through mobile and PC apps and software.Call quality: Call quality should feature as a prominent aspect of any VoIP service you select. If your VoIP setup will be constantly used, you should opt for a solution with robust audio, low downtime, and low drop rates.
Show more
How is AI developing into a vital feature for VoIP services in 2025?
In the same manner as many industries, VoIP providers are adopting artificial intelligence features to stay competitive and to lure in users with the promise of streamlined operations, automatic content generation, and improved data analytics. You can find AI linked to automatic call transcription, for example, alongside implementations in customer assistance chatbots, environmental noise-cancelation -- to improve call quality -- and call routing. The latter may be able to help route customers to their desired location more efficiently. Sometimes it's less artificial intelligence and more simply "smart" features packaged up with a shiny phrase. So, it is worth taking new announcements with a pinch of salt. In recent news in the VoIP-AI space:The VoIP services market is predicted to expand by $21.59 billion between 2024 and 2028, driven by cost efficiency measures and AI. Regulatory hurdles may prove to be a stumbling block. Squaretalk unveiled an AI-powered voice agent with inbuilt KYC compliance automation technologies intended to streamline and secure customer onboarding in the VoIP space.At Enterprise Connect 2025, Zoom launched a set of new AI-backed features focused on orchestration, automation, and writing assistance.
Show more
Latest news in the VoIP, telecoms spaceA new VoIP-based botnet is leveraging default passwords to compromise routers and internet-facing devices.VoIP-Pal filed an antitrust lawsuit against Google, Apple, and Samsung, with AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile named as co-conspirators. The suit alleges that the companies are involved in a coordinated effort to prevent competition in the standalone Wi-Fi Calling space.Telefonica has left Ecuador, further withdrawing from Latin America in a bid to focus on other markets. Generative AI is being discussed as a significant solution to tackling telecoms-related fraud.FAQs on VoIP services
What percentage of businesses use VoIP?
Business communications firm Blueface suggests that around 35% of businesses worldwide have adopted some form of VoIP, with approximately 60% of organizations being open to the idea of phasing out traditional phone lines. The market is also expected to expand further, with researchers suggesting the market will grow to more than $236 billion in 2028.
Show more
Is my internet good enough for VoIP?
A benefit of VoIP is that it requires very little bandwidth. While the speed and reliability of your internet connection will determine the quality of a VoIP call, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) estimates that a typical VoIP call only requires 0.5Mbps. This is far less than your typical YouTube video or social media visit. If you have a basic internet package, VoIP calling is likely possible.
Show more
What are the disadvantages of VoIP?
While VoIP can work with a minimal internet connection, it still needs one to operate because there is no offline functionality, unlike traditional analog systems. Weak connections will result in laggy calls with poor latency.In addition, VoIP systems are likely usable during power outages and usually unsuitable for emergency situations. You should also consider the potential security ramifications of VoIP as they are more prone to cyberthreats than standard phone lines.
Show more
What's the difference between VoIP and Wi-Fi calling?
VoIP and Wi-Fi calling are similar in some respects but not the same. Wi-Fi calling is a smartphone feature that lets you make calls through your internet connection instead of using cellular services. In comparison, VoIP is a dedicated service that uses an available internet connection to make a call with a compatible device.
Show more
Is VoIP worth it for small businesses?
Yes, especially when you consider the cost savings element of these services. For example, it may be cheaper and quicker to set up VoIP than traditional phone lines in an office. This can provide more flexibility where employees work without relying on hardwired lines or hardware. VoIP services can also provide useful features such as video conferencing and collaborative tools.
Show more
Latest updatesIn ZDNET's July update, we performed substantial editorial and layout updates. We also provided more information on our favorite alternative VoIP services. In ZDNET's June update, we performed significant editorial and layout changes.Alternative business VoIP providers worth considering Show less
View now at Zoom Thanks to a popularity surge in recent years, Zoom now operates an affordable VoIP service best suited to domestic calling. Features include U.S. and domestic calling, SMS messaging, online fax, and an AI companion for Zoom Phone. Plans start at $15 per user per month.
Pros
User-friendly
Accessible
Cons
Limited free online meetings
Zoom
Thanks to a popularity surge in recent years, Zoom now operates an affordable VoIP service best suited to domestic calling. Features include U.S. and domestic calling, SMS messaging, online fax, and an AI companion for Zoom Phone. Plans start at $15 per user per month.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Line2 Line2 is an option if you just want a single virtual line, with the possibility of expansion later on. This is a great way for small businesses to start in VoIP without the need for complicated hardware or a high start-up investment. You can sign up for a starter price of $8 per month on an annual plan.
Pros
Suitable for small businesses, single lines
Cons
Few advanced features
Line2
Line2 is an option if you just want a single virtual line, with the possibility of expansion later on. This is a great way for small businesses to start in VoIP without the need for complicated hardware or a high start-up investment. You can sign up for a starter price of $8 per month on an annual plan.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at GoTo Consider GoTo Connect if you are interested in leveraging AI and automation for your call center operations. Features on offer include toll-free calling, multi-device support, call queues, SMS, an AI messaging assistant, and AI-based call summaries, transcription, and analysis.
Pros
AI focus
Multi-device support
Cons
Might be overkill for startups
GoTo Connect
Consider GoTo Connect if you are interested in leveraging AI and automation for your call center operations. Features on offer include toll-free calling, multi-device support, call queues, SMS, an AI messaging assistant, and AI-based call summaries, transcription, and analysis.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Grasshopper Grasshopper provides a range of flexible phone plans for your business lines, including custom and toll-free numbers. A solo line costs $14 per month, and there's also a plan for small businesses that provides more phone numbers and unlimited extensions.
Pros
Great plans for small businesses
Cons
Lacks advanced features
Grasshopper
Grasshopper provides a range of flexible phone plans for your business lines, including custom and toll-free numbers. A solo line costs $14 per month, and there's also a plan for small businesses that provides more phone numbers and unlimited extensions.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Further ZDNET Tech Coverage
Smartphones
Best Android phone
Best smartphone
Best Samsung phone
Best iPhone
Best rugged Phones
Best Google phone
Best foldable phone
Best flip phone
Best 5G phone
Best cheap phone
Best stylus phone
Best Motorola phone
Smartwatches
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Tablets
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Laptops
Best laptop overall
Best Linux laptop
Best laptop for graphic design
Best lightweight laptops
Best Lenovo laptop
Best budget gaming laptop
Best 15-inch laptop
Best laptop under $1000
Best Windows laptop
Best laptop for video editing
TVs
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
Other Tech Resources
Is Temu legit? Everything to know before placing an order
How to download YouTube videos for free
How to screen record in Windows 10 or 11
How to create a drop down list in excel
How to use Microsoft Designer’s Image Creator
How to upgrade your incompatible Windows 10 PC to Windows 11
How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
How to screen mirror Android to TV
How to turn on private DNS mode on Android
What is ChatGPT?
How to record a call on iPhone
How to record a call on your Android phone
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use