Magnesium lotion is popular for sleep. Does it work? : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Magnesium lotion is popular for sleep. Does it work? Social media influencers claim that using lotion with magnesium promotes sleep. But there's little evidence magnesium taken in this way is effective.
Special Series Healthy or hype?
Is it the magnesium or the massage? The facts about magnesium lotion for sleep
September 15, 20255:00 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
By
Katia Riddle
Can using magnesium topically help with sleep? Medical experts are skeptical
Listen
·
3:15
3:15
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5529375/nx-s1-9452861" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Microgen Images/Getty Images/Science Photo Library RF
The latest health craze to hit social media: magnesium lotion. Magnesium is an essential mineral that the body uses for a number of functions. It has long been thought to help with sleep when taken as an oral supplement, though there is little scientific evidence to back up that claim.
Influencers now promote magnesium in lotion form as an elixir for improving sleep as well as for addressing a wide range of problems, including cortisol and insulin imbalance, muscle soreness, fibromyalgia and arthritis. "Did you know rubbing magnesium cream on your child's feet can help with sleep?" asks one woman on TikTok who goes by cottagecalderon and who promises that it can help with growing pains and improving mood.
Sponsor Message
"No midnight leg cramps," says a man on the account tap.the.orange.cart. "It works for me and my wife." "Y'all," says another TikTokker, well over 40ish, "this magnesium lotion and spray is magic in the bottle." The claim  Enthusiasts claim that magnesium lotion — specifically applied to feet — can improve sleep. Many also argue it can be applied all over the body to remedy a variety of other health ailments. People are buying the idea, literally. One market research group estimated the market in 2024 for topical magnesium was more than $400 million. The evidence  There is little proof that magnesium can be absorbed through the skin. "The problem with this is that the skin is a barrier, not a sponge," says Nicholas Theodosakis, a dermatologist and researcher at Harvard University. Most medications are best delivered orally, which allows for quick absorption into the bloodstream. A few kinds of substances are well suited to absorption through the skin, he says. Often, transdermal patches are used for medications that need to be slowly absorbed over time. There's no evidence that magnesium is in this category. Theodosakis theorizes that any benefits realized from magnesium lotion are likely from the massage used to apply it or the lotion's moisturizing ingredients.
Sponsor Message
" You apply a cream or a lotion or an ointment that contains some active ingredient and, yeah, your skin looks better than maybe some place you didn't apply it," says Theodosakis. "But that's because the cream itself promotes skin health. Anything that comes in like a cream base or an ointment base is just automatically gonna be good for the skin." The nuance Despite the lack of evidence, at least one doctor says if magnesium lotion is working for you — go for it. "I think the risks of applying magnesium to your skin are probably extremely small," says Dr. John Winkelman, a sleep expert at Harvard. He says he had at least one patient report using "magnesium butter," for sleep. (" I thought you put that on toast, but no, in fact, you rub it on your legs," says Winkelman.) "She did say magnesium butter was helping." Winkelman says in matters of sleep especially, placebo can be powerful — and he's not one to discourage whatever safe remedies work for his patients. That said, Winkelman is not planning to recommend it anytime soon.
The Food and Drug Administration doesn't approve supplements and related products based on safety and efficacy data the way it does for drugs, so there's no guarantee these products will deliver on their claims. For some of the sleep conditions that magnesium lotion supposedly treats, says Winkelman, there are medically proven treatments. Restless legs syndrome, for example — something some influencers say is eased with an application of magnesium lotion — has actual tested medical therapies.
"I really don't feel that it's fair to recommend things that I really don't think have been substantiated as effective," says Winkelman. "I'm a big believer in scientific evidence." The bottom line Though there is no proof that magnesium lotion promotes sleep or addresses medical problems, experts, including dermatologist Nicholas Theodosakis, agree that magnesium lotion likely won't hurt, except, he says, "in the pocketbook."
Sponsor Message
He notes that as a dermatologist, he sees many health fads. "I think it's just the nature of skin," he notes. "It's highly linked to emotional well-being and psychology and culture. Also, you just have quite a lot of it."
Correction Sept. 15, 2025
The broadcast version of this piece and an earlier version of the web story incorrectly said that supplements and related products are not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. Although supplements are not approved by the FDA for safety and efficacy before they go on the market, they are subject to regulation, including rules around labeling. Manufacturers are also subject to inspection, and the FDA monitors safety concerns once products are on the market.
Magnesium
TikTok
influencers
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor