I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
By
Dhruv Bhutani
Published 8 hours ago
Dhruv Bhutani has been writing about consumer technology since 2008, offering deep insights into the personal technology landscape through features and opinion pieces. He writes for XDA-Developers, where he focuses on topics like productivity, networking, self-hosting, and more. Over the years, his work has also appeared in leading publications such as Android Police, Android Authority, CNET, PCMag, and more. Outside of his professional work, Dhruv is an avid fan of horror media spanning films and literature, enjoys fitness activities, collects vinyl records, and plays the guitar.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Every single time you pop open a new tab in your browser, what do you see? It's invariably a search tab, or perhaps a list of shortcuts, or maybe some recently searched tabs. For years, I've stuck to the default new page tab in Chrome, Safari, Firefox, and the myriad other browsers I've tried. But diving deep into the self-hosted world, there had to be a way to improve upon this most basic of experiences. Looking for a solution to that problem is how I stumbled upon Heimdall. This self-hosted app dashboard is exactly what you need to serve as a launchpad for your self-hosted or even online-app-based internet use. And like the best open-source services, Heimdall isn't just easy to install, but just as easy to configure and set up. I've got it up and running on my NAS, and let's just say that my small experiment has turned into the single best productivity tweak I have made in years to my browsing experience.
A dashboard designed to simplify everything
Clean interface with plenty of customization
The idea behind Heimdall is pretty basic and straightforward. Think of it as a clean, visually appealing dashboard that lives on your own server and gives you a launchpad for your choice of apps and services. The idea is to organize your most-used web apps, tools, and resources into a single screen that greets you every time you open the browser or a new tab. Sounds like a pretty solid upgrade over your usual bookmarks folder. Heimdall adds a few more levels to it. To kick things off, Heimdall divides content into three different app types — generic apps, foundation apps, and enhanced apps. The generic apps are the simplest. All you've got to do is provide a name, link, and an icon, and Heimdall offers up a neat-looking shortcut to the service or app. That said, these apps also don't offer any additional features. For that, you'll need to look at foundation apps. These are apps that have already been validated by Heimdall, so when you type in the name, it fills in the icon and basic information explaining the app and service on its own. Enhanced apps are where things start getting interesting. Apps under this category support a far higher degree of functionality. Heimdall can talk to their APIs to show useful status information right on your dashboard. For example, you can tap into a JellyFin server and see your media server running, the transcoding status, or more. The interface is clean and designed with simplicity in mind, featuring a default theme that follows a minimalist approach. But the default theme is just the beginning. There's ample customization on offer here, ranging from colors, backgrounds, and icons to match. Additionally, Heimdall lets you group apps by personal preference so you can have a group of apps dedicated to server management, or another set geared towards media and entertainment. And if your list of apps runs long, you can always use the built-in search function to find the exact apps you need quickly. This means that your dashboard isn't just a quick launchpad, but also your personal search engine for key apps and services.
Why a self-hosted dashboard beats bookmarks
Easy setup with a big impact
Credit:
What makes Heimdall so impressive isn't just that it's a productivity tool, but also how flexible and capable the interface is. With this being a self-hosted app, there are certain basic advantages that you get with it. For example, all the data is under your control, and backups and upgrades are also within your control. As far as my setup goes, I've kept it fairly simple. I've got Home Assistant and Plex set up as quick access shortcuts on my dashboard. These let me go straight to my essential services. I've also dabbled with setting up enhanced apps, but I prefer a light and minimal setup, so I'm personally just sticking to quick-click bookmarks. Broadly speaking, some of you might say that bookmarks serve the same function. Generally speaking, you'd be right. But there are differences. Depending on the number of bookmarks you have, it can be cumbersome to find the one that is appropriate for your apps. Moreover, having quick access icons every time you open a tab makes popping into your favorite apps and services that much quicker, reducing friction.
Heimdall turns your browser into a control center for your self-hosted stack
Replacing my browser's home page with Heimdall was supposed to be an experiment with dashboards. Just to see if it is something that would actually help me out. What I didn't expect was that it would completely change how I interact with my self-hosted stack. In fact, it has become the central hub of my digital life. It keeps me organized, saves me time, and brings some order to how I access my apps and services. If you are looking for a low-effort way to quickly access all your apps and services, Heimdall should be your first port of call. This self-hosted dashboard might be all you need.
Heimdall
Heimdall is a self-hosted dashboard app that gives you quick access links to your preferred self-hosted and cloud apps and services.
See at Heimdall
Expand
Collapse
Software and Services
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
17 hours ago
I’m building a privacy-focused life, and these Docker containers are non-negotiable
2 days ago
AMD Threadripper CPUs are surprisingly efficient for home labs
2 days ago
This is the easiest way to run Docker on Windows without losing your mind
1 day ago
This chair moves with you: LiberNovo Omni's pre-sale begins after record Kickstarter
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
1 hour ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
3 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Against all odds, this decades-old Windows OS grew over 100% in just two months
4 ways I use Perplexity that have nothing to do with research
Netdata is an open source dashboard that shows all my servers and services in one place
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.