Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims — AI networking chip company boasts capacity to connect 100,000 GPUs together | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia to lease its own chips from AI startup Lambda, deal involves 18,000 GPUs over a 4-year agreement
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's next-gen AI chip could double the price of H20 if China export is approved
Tech Industry
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang begins sale of $925M worth of Nvidia stock
Artificial Intelligence
OpenAI widely thought to be Broadcom's mystery $10 billion custom AI processor customer
Tech Industry
More than 50% of Nvidia’s data center revenue comes from three customers
GPUs
Nvidia posts $46 billion revenue in another record quarter
GPUs
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
GPUs
Nvidia briefly crosses $4 trillion market cap — GPU maker and AI bulwark was the first to reach the milestone
Artificial Intelligence
Chinese companies allegedly smuggled in $1bn worth of Nvidia AI chips in the last three months, despite increasing export controls
Artificial Intelligence
China bans its biggest tech companies from acquiring Nvidia chips, says report
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia AI challenger Groq announces European expansion — Helsinki data center targets AI market
Tech Industry
Industry news live: the latest news from Nvidia, Intel, and AMD
Tech Industry
Nvidia-backed startup invents Ethernet memory pool to help power AI
Tech Industry
Sam Altman says OpenAI will own 'well over 1 million GPUs' by the end of the year
Tech Industry
Elon Musk says xAI will deploy 50 million H100 GPUs in the next 5 years, doubles down on goal as Grok 2.5 goes open source
Tech Industry
Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims — AI networking chip company boasts capacity to connect 100,000 GPUs together
News
By
Jon Martindale
published
19 September 2025
Rochan Sankar and other employees will move over to Nvidia, and it gets to license the firm's technology.
Comments (4)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Getty Images/VCG)
Nvidia has reportedly paid out more than $900 million to hire the CEO of AI networking hardware company, Enfabrica. Rochan Sankar and a number of his colleagues at Enfabrica will become Nvidia staff members as part of the deal, and Nvidia will get the option to license the company's hardware, according to CNBC. The deal will reportedly involve cash and stock options, and comes just two years after Nvidia invested part of a $125 million fund into Enfabrica. However, while the company was valued in the high hundreds of millions, paying close to a billion dollars for a handful of staff and a license would potentially value the company much higher. Clearly, Enfabrica has talent and technology that Nvidia feels is crucial to its ongoing development. An Nvidia spokesperson declined to comment on the report.Indeed, it's not hard to see why. Nvidia's meteoric rise in value and prominence in recent years has been on the back of its AI hardware developments. Today, its GPUs power many of the world's data centers (and "AI factories") with 72 within each of the latest Blackwell GPU stacks. In some of these data centers, though, 10s or even hundreds of thousands of GPUs can be working in conjunction to power the latest AI technologies, and it's the connections between those chips that Enfabrica may be able to help improve.
You may like
Nvidia to lease its own chips from AI startup Lambda, deal involves 18,000 GPUs over a 4-year agreement
Nvidia's next-gen AI chip could double the price of H20 if China export is approved
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang begins sale of $925M worth of Nvidia stock
Nvidia has touted its NVLink technology for allowing high-speed communication between its GPUs, allowing them to work on the same task in parallel without bottlenecking one another or causing synchronization issues. Enfabrica's tech may go beyond that, though, with the company claiming it can help connect more than 100,000 GPUs. That's the kind of scalability that Nvidia is looking for as it continues its global expansion.This major (and expensive) hire for Nvidia mirrors those announced by other tech firms in recent months. Meta famously spent tens of billions hiring the CEO of ScaleAI and other AI experts from various companies, and many of the top tech firms like OpenAI, Microsoft, Anthropic, and Google have been trying to poach each other's top talent for many months now. More recently, however, Meta announced a freeze to its hiring and spending spree, and Google fired several hundred of its AI contractors.Nvidia isn't slowing down, though. Alongside this new hire, it recently announced its purchase of a $5 billion stake in CPU giant, Intel, and that it was investing over $700 million into the development of a new data center in the UK in partnership with startup Nscale.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Nvidia
See all comments (4)
Jon MartindaleFreelance WriterJon Martindale is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. For the past 20 years, he's been writing about PC components, emerging technologies, and the latest software advances. His deep and broad journalistic experience gives him unique insights into the most exciting technology trends of today and tomorrow.
Read more
Nvidia to lease its own chips from AI startup Lambda, deal involves 18,000 GPUs over a 4-year agreement
Nvidia's next-gen AI chip could double the price of H20 if China export is approved
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang begins sale of $925M worth of Nvidia stock
OpenAI widely thought to be Broadcom's mystery $10 billion custom AI processor customer
More than 50% of Nvidia’s data center revenue comes from three customers
Nvidia posts $46 billion revenue in another record quarter
Latest in Tech Industry
Hackers attack Europe’s automatic flight check-in systems
President Trump posts an AI-generated image of him trading Intel stock inside the White House
OpenAI is reportedly poaching Apple talent to build its first consumer hardware device
Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
Latest in News
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
SoftBank beams 5G to phones from the sky in successful stratospheric test flight
Amazon sends a literal brick to a customer in lieu of the RTX 5080 they ordered
Radeon RX 9070 gains 25% performance in synthetic benchmarks using RX 9070 XT vBIOS
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone
4 Comments
Comment from the forums
JTWrenn
This type of thing shouldn't be allowed. It should have the same oversite as any merger because that is what it is. I hate that companies do stuff like this and get away with it.
We are destroying just about every market ecosphere out there but killing off competition via conglomeration. It is bad for just about everyone but the rich.
Reply
A Stoner
JTWrenn said:This type of thing shouldn't be allowed. It should have the same oversite as any merger because that is what it is. I hate that companies do stuff like this and get away with it.
We are destroying just about every market ecosphere out there but killing off competition via conglomeration. It is bad for just about everyone but the rich.The rich are by far and away the least of the reasons money flows upward like this. >98% of people follow trends and throw their money at the 0.1%. Brand name clothes, just a few actors and actresses in TV and Movies, the same retread loser politicians year after year, almost always from the same back ground. Apple, nVidia, Intel, McDonalds, Starbucks, Taylor Swift... New names are hard to sell, new faces hard to sell. Even the most destroyed names end up getting the money out of the pockets of the low end losers, Kardashians, Bud Light, Target.
I agree, these sorts of events are destructive to having a properly running competitive business world, but they are inevitable due to consumer choices. Without the nVidia brand, even if this company produced something of marginal value that could eventually be amazing with more investment, the chances of it actually selling enough of the marginally good enough equipment to remain afloat or even expand and improve its products is nearly non existent. Which is why most of these companies sell out, as it is really their only path getting paid.
Reply
tusker79
A Stoner said:The rich are by far and away the least of the reasons money flows upward like this. >98% of people follow trends and throw their money at the 0.1%. Brand name clothes, just a few actors and actresses in TV and Movies, the same retread loser politicians year after year, almost always from the same back ground. Apple, nVidia, Intel, McDonalds, Starbucks, Taylor Swift... New names are hard to sell, new faces hard to sell. Even the most destroyed names end up getting the money out of the pockets of the low end losers, Kardashians, Bud Light, Target.
I agree, these sorts of events are destructive to having a properly running competitive business world, but they are inevitable due to consumer choices. Without the nVidia brand, even if this company produced something of marginal value that could eventually be amazing with more investment, the chances of it actually selling enough of the marginally good enough equipment to remain afloat or even expand and improve its products is nearly non existent. Which is why most of these companies sell out, as it is really their only path getting paid.Should we just do nothing and accept this herd behavior? Aren't there things communities can do? Some towns don't let franchises open restaurants etc in their town. Your attitude seems very defeatist.
Reply
JTWrenn
A Stoner said:I agree, these sorts of events are destructive to having a properly running competitive business world, but they are inevitable due to consumer choices.They are in no way caused by consumer choices with their and are not inevitable. You could easily create a more competitive business market with proper regulation.
You could argue that they are inevitable because we still have money in politics so the regulations never get enforced or always get rolled back. Instead the truth is we get an ebb and flow. We are all the way back to where we were 100 years ago with the robber barons. It has to get very bad for people to start turning it around because they are often idiots.
Reply
View All 4 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.