Best AI Website Builder: Tried and Tested - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Web Hosting
Best AI Website Builder: Tried and Tested
We’ve tested top AI website builders to help you find the best tool for creating your website without code and in just a few minutes of your time.
Our Experts
Written by
Dianna Gunn
Article updated on April 25, 2025 at 5:10 AM PDT
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time. Expertise Web Hosting, Online Business Management
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Ethical and environmental concerns
The data used to train AI engines is often gathered by scraping content without securing consent from -- or providing compensation for -- its creators. As such, there are several copyright lawsuits against AI firms. You may not want to use AI if you’re concerned about ethical and legal complications.
Ownership and training
Make sure you fully understand who owns your site design, whether the AI will use your data for training and if there’s any way to opt out of having your data used for training.
Type of hosting
Website builders typically use either shared hosting or cloud hosting. Shared hosting is more affordable but has strict limitations on storage and bandwidth. Cloud hosting costs more but is easy to scale up as your site grows.
Design flexibility
Look for an AI website builder that offers maximum input during site generation and gives you full design customization options after your site is created.
Ease of use
Check reviews and tutorials or sign up for a free trial to determine how easy it is to use the AI website builder you’re considering.
Storage
Some website builders offer unlimited storage, so you can create limitless web pages and blog posts. If a specific storage limit is listed, assume you can create 10 large pages (like product pages with several high-resolution images) or 100 small pages (like blog posts with one or two images) per GB.
Bandwidth or data transfer
Bandwidth and data transfer are used interchangeably by web hosts to describe the number of visitors your site can handle per month. Many website builders offer unlimited bandwidth. If you’re choosing a website builder with specific bandwidth limits, I recommend choosing the highest-bandwidth plan you can afford.
Uptime
The percentage of time your site spends online. Most companies offer a 99.9% uptime guarantee, meaning your site won’t go down for more than 10 minutes a week.
Site speed
The number of seconds it takes for your site to load. I recommend aiming for a site speed of less than 3 seconds -- and the lower that number is, the better.
Security
Your website builder should at least provide SSL certification to encrypt your site data and firewall protection to keep malware out of your site. It may also include other security tools like distributed denial of service protection to prevent malicious traffic from flooding your site.
Customer support
Look for 24/7 customer service through your preferred method of communication, such as live chat or phone. Representatives should be quick to respond and capable of helping with most common issues.
Pricing
Pay special attention to introductory discounts, contract lengths and additional fees such as domain registration.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Website builders have made website creation accessible, making them perfect for first-time website builders who don’t love learning new tech or simply don't have the time to. Many companies have debuted AI site generation tools. I’ve tested many AI website builders by creating simple websites in minutes. However, some AI tools produce shoddy websites while others use collaborative processes to build beautiful sites that match your unique vision. I’ve extensively researched how various AI website builders use your data and built websites with several to determine their effectiveness. Here are the best AI website builders that provide customizable, collaborative site setup processes. Our Picks
Best AI website builder overall Squarespace
Jump to details
See at Squarespace
Jump to details
Best AI website builder for e-commerce stores Shopify
Jump to details
See at Shopify
Jump to details
Best for AI website builder for WordPress users 10Web
Jump to details
See at 10Web
Jump to details
Fastest AI website builder Hostinger
Jump to details
See at Hostinger
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best AI Website Builder: Tried and Tested
What is the best AI website builder right now?
Best AI website builder overall
Best AI website builder for e-commerce stores
Best for AI website builder for WordPress users
Fastest AI website builder
Pro tip: Include an AI disclosure
Factors to consider when choosing an AI website builder
How CNET tests website builders
Other AI website builders we've tested
Best AI website builder FAQs
What is the best AI website builder right now?Squarespace’s Blueprint AI is the best AI website builder, providing a uniquely collaborative design process to help you create a website that matches your vision. You can choose elements like your brand colors and fonts, then select the pages you want it to build. You can regenerate the site -- both the overall look and individual pieces of content -- as often as it takes to get something you’re happy with.Squarespace offers a moderately intuitive site editor, fast and reliable server performance (uptime and site speed) and robust security protocols. You’ll get all this, plus unlimited storage and bandwidth, for $16 a month (billed annually), which is significantly less than you’ll pay for comparable plans on other website builders.
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best AI website builder overall
Squarespace
Pros
Collaborative AI website builder gives you more control over the end result than other tools
Unlimited storage and bandwidth
Good server performance
Full ownership of your creations
Cons
Customer service can be unreliable
High transaction fees for e-commerce sales on low-tier plans
Must actively opt out of your data being used for training AI
Squarespace is a popular website builder powering over four million websites (and, through sponsorships, several of your favorite podcasts).Who it’s best forSquarespace is the best AI website builder if you want a fully collaborative design process that will help you build a custom website in minutes. The cost may be steep for hobby or personal websites, but it’s similar to -- or more affordable than -- other AI website builders, and quite reasonable for small businesses.Why we like itSquarespace offers the most advanced, collaborative AI of any website builder I’ve tested. Where most AI website generators only ask for your site name, industry and possibly a color scheme, Squarespace lets you choose design factors such as brand tone and fonts. This granular level of control helps you create a fully customized website that you can plug your content into and publish with minimal adjustment. Squarespace performed well in my hands-on testing, with a relatively intuitive site builder, excellent uptime and solid site speed. Squarespace provides a robust security toolkit alongside 24/7 security monitoring and two-factor authentication, making Squarespace safer than many web hosts. You’ll get Secure Sockets Layer or SSL certification to encrypt your (and your visitors’s) data, firewall protection to prevent malware from infecting your site and anti-DDoS (distributed denial of service) protocols to prevent malicious traffic from flooding your server. I had issues with customer support, and Trustpilot reviews suggest this isn’t an unusual occurrence. However, the 1,400 Trustpilot reviews and my singular review are statistically insignificant compared to the millions of sites using Squarespace. Moreover, there’s a good chance you won’t need to deal with support much. I’ve only contacted customer service a few times in over 10 years of hosting websites, so these issues are unlikely to affect you much.Ownership and trainingSquarespace’s Blueprint AI is trained on OpenAI and Google models. According to its Content Generation Terms, Squarespace reserves the right to use your input (brand information and other prompts) and output (the content created based on those prompts) to train its AI, as well as the right to share that data with third-party AI creators. However, you can opt out of having your data used for training, both by Squarespace and by third-party services, in the settings area.The good news is that Squarespace doesn’t claim ownership over your site. All of the information you enter into the Squarespace AI -- and everything it creates for you -- belongs to you.PricingSquarespace Basic costs $16 a month, billed annually. Basic includes unlimited storage, so you can publish as many pages as you want, and unlimited bandwidth (sometimes called data transfer), so your site can handle unlimited monthly visitors. Basic works for hobby sites, portfolios or service-based business websites. However, it’s not ideal for e-commerce, as Squarespace charges 2% to 7% transaction fees on top of payment processing fees on this plan, forcing you to either raise your prices or lose money.If you’re starting an e-commerce store, you’ll want to spring for Core, priced at $23 a month (billed annually). Squarespace doesn’t charge fees for regular transactions made on sites using Core and only charges 5% for digital content and memberships (rather than the 7% charged for subscriptions on Basic). Core also includes additional tools for shipping, sales tax calculation and marketing.You can drop digital content and membership transaction fees down to 1% by choosing Plus, priced at $39 a month (billed annually). Or, if you want to avoid transaction fees entirely -- and you’re confident you’ll sell enough to make up the difference -- you buy Advanced for $99 a month (billed annually). However, this only eliminates Squarespace transaction fees; payment processing fees will still be applied to your users’ purchases.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Squarespace
Specs & Configurations
Storage
UnlimitedBandwidth/data transfer
UnlimitedUptime guarantee
99.9%Speed tools
Built-in cachingE-commerce functionality
Available on all plans, transaction fees varyCustomer service
24/7 live chat and emailFree plan or trial
14-day trialPricing
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best AI website builder for e-commerce stores
Shopify
Pros
AI generator provides multiple options for each prompt
Your content is not directly used to train AI
Full suite of e-commerce features, including intuitive checkout
Extensive inventory and shipping management features
Shipping discounts
Sales tax calculation and collection tools
Cons
AI process isn’t fully collaborative
Starting plan is expensive compared to other options
Shopify is a specialized website builder for e-commerce, currently powering over 4.4 million online stores. Shopify can help you grow offline, too, with point-of-sale tools for selling at pop-up shops and even permanent retail locations.Who it’s best forShopify is ideal if you want to create an e-commerce store with AI. Shopify’s tools are particularly powerful if you’ll be selling physical products, as you’ll get advanced shipping and inventory management tools, plus shipping discounts and even tools for in-person sales. However, Shopify’s AI site generation is less advanced than Squarespace Blueprint, so you’ll need to do more site editing if you choose Shopify.Why we like itShopify maximizes your choices from the outset by creating snapshots of three website templates rather than immediately generating a whole site based on your prompts. However, I found its ability to personalize those templates based on my prompts to be limited, especially when compared to the Squarespace AI site builder.Still, Shopify has a lot of potential. In my experience, Shopify has relatively intuitive systems for site and account management, the best site speed I’ve encountered and excellent uptime. Shopify also offers robust security protocols similar to what Squarespace offers, plus an extensive suite of e-commerce and marketing tools. I even had a good experience with Shopify customer service, though Trustpilot reviews suggest Shopify might be inconsistent.Shopify offers advanced e-commerce tools for inventory management, shipping and sales tax calculation, simplifying the process of selling physical products online. You’ll also get email marketing software, something you’d have to buy an extension or use a third-party service for with other website builders.Ownership and trainingAccording to the Shopify Magic FAQ, Shopify’s AI is trained on a mix of proprietary data aggregated from Shopify’s databases and “the world’s leading large language models”, according to its help center. Shopify may use your existing store-level data to customize your results, but this data won’t be shared with other merchants or used for more general training.In conversation with a live chat representative, I confirmed that Shopify grants you ownership over all content you create with AI. You also retain ownership over the prompts you enter into its systems.PricingShopify’s Basic plan costs $29 a month, billed annually. Basic includes unlimited storage and bandwidth, plus access to Shopify’s email marketing system with unlimited contacts. You’ll also gain access to most of Shopify’s tools for inventory and shipping management, plus shipping discounts of up to 77% for USPS, UPS and DHL. This is a great plan for small stores focused on selling physical products.Medium-sized e-commerce operations can choose the Shopify plan, priced at $79 a month, for increased shipping discounts (up to 88%) and additional staff accounts (up to five). You can also opt for the Advanced plan, priced at $299 a month, which includes improved checkout capacity and up to 15 staff accounts.Enterprise businesses can take advantage of Shopify Plus, which offers full checkout customization, inventory management for 200 locations, unlimited staff accounts and up to 200 POS Pro locations. Shopify Plus starts at $2,300 a month and requires you to work with a sales associate to create your unique plan.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Shopify
Specs & Configurations
Storage
UnlimitedBandwidth/data transfer
UnlimitedUptime guarantee
99.99%E-commerce functionality
Advanced store-building tools available on all plansCustomer service
24/7 live chat or emailFree plan or trial
Three days free, then one month for $1Price range
$29 to $299 a month (billed annually) for regular Shopify; $2,300 or more per month for Shopify Plus
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best for AI website builder for WordPress users
10Web
Pros
Collaborative design process
Full control over site map during site generation
Flexible drag-and-drop editor based on Elementor
Your data will not be used for AI training
Robust security
Cons
Plans are expensive for what they provide
10Web is an AI website builder based on WordPress -- the most popular content management system for creating content like blog posts and web pages -- and Elementor, a popular visual design tool for WordPress. This provides experienced WordPress users with both a user interface that feels familiar and the power of AI site generation. 10Web has a 4.8 out of 5 star rating on Trustpilot based on almost 2,000 reviews.Who it’s best for10Web is a great choice if you want the user experience of WordPress and Elementor with the added benefit of AI website and content generation tools. However, you’ll pay a premium for its services, so you should only consider 10Web if you have a significant budget.Why we like it10Web offers a collaborative AI site generation process similar to what you’ll get from Squarespace. You get to choose your site name, purpose and colors. You’ll also get to create a site map, dictating both the pages themselves and the sections generated on each page. This may reduce the amount of editing you’ll need to do after the site is created. The only downside is that you can’t view individual pages during generation or easily regenerate them the way you can in Squarespace Blueprint.What really makes 10Web unique, though, is its basis in WordPress technology. After the initial site generation, you’ll be able to use a site editor based on Elementor, one of the most popular page builders for WordPress. This makes it really easy to adapt to if you’ve used Elementor before, without complicating setup for users unfamiliar with WordPress.10Web secures every website with SSL certification, firewall protection and anti-DDoS protocols. Furthermore, 10Web teams perform continuous security monitoring and patching on all of its servers. Malware scans are also performed on a semi-regular basis. 10Web will automatically notify you and begin the malware removal process if malicious software is found on your site.Ownership and training10Web is trained entirely on “top large language models like GPT3”, as stated in the pricing page FAQ. On speaking with the live chat representatives, I confirmed that 10Web doesn’t use your prompts or content for training purposes, and you retain ownership over all content.Pricing10Web’s AI Starter plan can work for a small business website, but its high long-term cost makes it a poor choice for hobby sites. It costs $13 a month for the first year and $25 a month afterward. This plan includes full access to 10Web’s AI tools, including unlimited image generation, 5,000 words of content generation plus enough bandwidth for 10,000 monthly visitors and enough storage to host at least 100 websites. 10Web offers its AI Premium and Ultimate plans, which can be effective for business websites, but are cost-prohibitive for personal or hobby sites. The mid-tier AI Premium plan costs $18 a month in the first year ($36 a month afterward) with enough bandwidth for 50,000 monthly visitors and enough storage for at least 150 pages. AI Premium provides up to 50,000 words of content generation and unlimited AI image generation. There’s also an AI Ultimate plan priced at $28 a month for the first year ($55 a month afterward) with enough bandwidth for 100,000 monthly visitors and enough storage for at least 200 pages. You’ll get unlimited AI image and text generation with AI Ultimate. 10Web offers separate e-commerce plans starting at $14 a month ($26 a month on renewal). These plans can work for small-to-medium-sized e-commerce operations, but there’s no unlimited option, so you may have to switch website builders as your store grows. 10Web’s e-commerce plans feature unlimited product creation and order management tools. You’ll also get enough bandwidth for at least 30,000 visitors and enough storage for at least 100 pages. All plans come with unlimited AI image generation and range from 10,000 to unlimited AI text generation allowances. 10Web charges transaction fees of 0.5%, plus standard payment processing fees.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at 10Web
Specs & Configurations
Storage
Starts at 10GB (enough for at least 100 pages)Bandwidth/data transfer
Starts with enough for 10,000 monthly visitorsUptime guarantee
99.9%E-commerce functionality
Only on business plansCustomer service
24/7 live chatFree plan or trial
None
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Fastest AI website builder
Hostinger
Pros
Fast, high-quality AI website builder
AI text, image and logo generation on some plans
Great server speed and uptime
Robust security, including 24/7 site monitoring
More affordable than other website builders
Cons
Must sign up for four-year plan to get the best discount
Minimal collaboration during AI site creation
Customer support can be slow
Hostinger is our top-ranking web host thanks to its intuitive account interface and excellent server performance. Hostinger also offers an AI website builder that creates a site for you in under two minutes based on your website name and description -- and unlike other website builders, you can access it for the same prices as regular shared hosting. Moreover, the recently released Hostinger Horizons tool makes it possible to generate web apps in minutes.Who it’s best forHostinger is the best AI website builder for creating a site on a tight budget. The first four-year contract will save you over $10 a month compared with using the other website builders on this list for the same length of time -- and you’ll still be saving money when the contract renews.Hostinger’s new Horizons tool also makes it a great choice if you’re interested in building a web app with no coding expertise. You can use this tool to create a simple web app, like a word count tracker, in minutes and connect it to your Hostinger website for free. However, the app is only free for the first seven days. After that, you'll need to pay for a Horizons plan, starting at $15 per month, to continue using the app you've created and building new apps.Why we like itHostinger’s AI website builder generates a full site, including relevant images and text, based on your site name and description. The more detailed your description is, the more personalized your website will be; a progress bar shows when you’ve added enough info for Hostinger to create something unique. Hostinger then creates a site layout and lets you choose a color scheme. However, you won’t get to choose fonts, site pages or other elements during site generation like you can with Squarespace.Hostinger also recently introduced Horizons, a web app builder that can create simple web apps -- things like image compressors or QR code readers -- for you in minutes. This tool is currently free, and the apps even come with a subdomain-based web page (like yourapp.hostinger.com) so you can publish them right away. You can also connect them to your existing domain or Hostinger website. This can help you create something interactive and memorable for your visitors, strengthening your brand.Hostinger has several broader hosting benefits, including excellent server performance and intuitive account management tools. Furthermore, sites created by the Hostinger AI website builder are protected by SSL certification, firewall protection, anti-DDoS protocols, 24/7 site monitoring and automated backups created every time you update the site.The downside of Hostinger is its inconsistent customer service. You can only access support through live chat, and it can take half an hour or more to reach a human representative.Ownership and trainingWhile Hostinger’s privacy policies don’t fully flesh out AI permissions, I was able to confirm via live chat that you’ll retain full ownership of all of your website data. Data you enter into the system won’t be used to train the AI, either.Hostinger representatives further confirmed that data used to create websites and web apps through the AI site builder and Hostinger Horizons are not used in training. Both the website builder and Hostinger Horizons are built by configuring commercial LLMs -- like OpenAI and Anthropic -- with custom instructions. Hostinger then performs post-processing on the code generated by these customized LLMs to improve results.PricingHostinger offers a specialized website builder plan for $3 a month (renews at $8 a month) based on a four-year contract. This plan is great if you want to add your own content to an AI-generated site template, as it includes the full AI website builder. However, it’s less than ideal if you want to rely entirely on AI, as it doesn’t include AI text or image generation beyond the initial site creation. As for resources, you’ll get enough storage for at least 250 pages and unlimited bandwidth.If you’re building an e-commerce store, you’ll want the Business Website Builder plan. This plan costs $4 a month (renews at $14 per month) when you choose a four-year contract and includes AI text, image and logo generation. You’ll also get access to e-commerce features including order management, inventory management and payment processing, plus enough storage for at least 500 pages. However, you’ll only be able to sell up to 500 product types, so you may want to choose a different website builder if you intend to sell a wide range of products.You can also gain access to the AI website builder through Hostinger’s shared hosting plans.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Hostinger
Specs & Configurations
Storage
Starts at 25GB (enough for at least 250 pages)Bandwidth/data transfer
UnlimitedUptime guarantee
99.9%E-commerce functionality
Only on some plansCustomer service
24/7 live chatFree plan or trial
None
Add to comparePro tip: Include an AI disclosure
Many people are concerned about the ethics of how AI is trained and powered. It’s generally considered best practice to disclose your use of AI somewhere on your website. Your AI disclosure doesn’t need to be prominent -- one great option is to put this information in the footer, where a copyright message would usually go -- but it should be relatively easy to find and obvious. This helps your audience make an informed decision about how they want to interact with your website. Factors to consider when choosing an AI website builder
Ethical and environmental concernsAI models are trained by consuming massive amounts of data. This data may be gathered by scraping millions of websites without securing consent from -- or providing compensation for -- their creators. As a result, there are several leading copyright lawsuits (including a prominent lawsuit against Stable Diffusion) against AI firms. You may want to avoid using AI -- or choose an AI website builder that’s transparent about its training models -- if you’re concerned about ethical and legal complications.There are also significant concerns around the amount of power, water and rare minerals used to power AI data centers. This demand for resources causes both local issues, such as AI straining the US power grid, and global issues, such as increased carbon emissions. As such, you may want to avoid using AI if you’re worried about climate change.Ownership and trainingThink about the ownership of content and how large language models are trained. Who owns the AI-generated websites -- you, or the website builder company? Will the company use your creation to further train its AI, and if so, does that apply only to the content generated during the initial site creation or does it apply to content published on your site later? Can you opt out of your data being used to train the AI?You can typically find this information in the privacy policy or terms of service of the AI website builder you’re considering. We’ve already reviewed these documents for the companies on this list, but you may want to double-check them if you have specific concerns.Moreover, you may want to consider more general terms of ownership over AI content. Specifically, AI content without significant human editing cannot be copyrighted in the US at this time. Work “with AI elements” may be copyrightable, but if you’re concerned about copyright, it might be better to avoid AI.Type of hostingWebsite builders typically use either shared hosting or cloud hosting.Shared hosting splits a web server’s processing power, bandwidth and other resources between many websites. Each site is allotted a specific percentage of these resources. This can complicate things for fast-growing sites, as they might experience issues if they exceed the limits, but most plans include more than enough processing power and storage for small-to-medium-sized websites. Shared hosting is also affordable, often starting at $2 to $5 a month. Traditional hosting companies like Hostinger use shared hosting for website builders.Cloud hosting stores your data in a web of interconnected web servers. This makes it easy to scale, as your site can pull resources from multiple servers. Cloud hosting may also provide better uptime when compared with shared hosting, as your site can pull from a secondary server if the primary server goes down. However, cloud hosting tends to cost more, often starting at $15 to $20 a month. Website builder companies such as Squarespace use cloud hosting.Some companies may also let you use their website builders with other hosting types, like virtual private server or VPS hosting, but this is less common.Design flexibilityThe best AI website builders create a fully customized website for you based on multiple inputs like your industry, business name and brand colors. You should also be able to personalize every aspect of the completed design, from individual image placements to site-wide fonts and color schemes, at any time.Many AI website builders offer a free trial or even a free plan so you can test their design capabilities before you commit. You can also read in-depth reviews or watch video tutorials to better understand a website builder’s design options without creating an account.Ease of useOnce you get past the initial site generation, there are major discrepancies between AI website builders’ interfaces. Moreover, what feels intuitive to me might feel overly complicated to you. I recommend watching video tutorials or testing the website builder you’re considering through a free trial or plan before you make a purchase.StorageStorage determines how many files (like images or videos) you can upload to your site and how many web pages you can host. Many AI website builders offer unlimited storage so you don’t have to worry about this.Some website builders do have strict storage limits. Generally, 1GB of storage can host 10 large pages (like product pages with lots of high-resolution images) or 100 small pages (like blog posts with one or two high-resolution images). I’ve seen estimates as high as 1,000 pages per 1GB, but I prefer using the smaller estimates. I also recommend buying a plan with more storage than you think you’ll need, as you’ll have to either stop publishing content or upgrade your plan if you exceed the limit.Bandwidth or data transferBandwidth is technically a measurement of how much data your site can send per second. However, most website builder companies use the term bandwidth to describe data transfer, which is the amount of data your site can send in a full month.Many website builders offer unlimited bandwidth, so you don’t have to worry about your site being overwhelmed by an influx of visitors. Others list the specific number of monthly visitors your site can handle on each plan.If the website builder you’re considering lists bandwidth or data transfer as a measurement like 10GB, you can estimate the amount of bandwidth you need by assuming 1GB is equivalent to 10,000 visitors -- or just take the “more is better” approach.UptimeThe percentage of time a host’s servers (and, in turn, your website) spend online. If people can’t access your site, they will often go elsewhere, which may result in lost traffic and audience trust. Uptime is even more important for business websites, as lost traffic often equals lost revenue.Most website builders offer a 99.9% uptime guarantee, meaning your site won’t have more than 10 minutes of server-related downtime per week. Site speedThe number of seconds your site takes to load. I recommend aiming for a site speed of 3 seconds or less, as bounce rate -- the percentage of people who leave your site after viewing only one page -- increases by 32% when loading times go from one to three seconds. Site speed is largely controlled by your website design, but there are a couple of techniques website builders can use to improve your site speed:Caching: A specialized data storage process that uses the CPU instead of the traditionally used RAM to improve site speed. This works because the CPU is typically faster than the RAM. Some forms of caching also store static information (information that doesn’t change often) on visitors’ browsers to improve loading times on repeat visits.Content Delivery Network or CDN: A method of storing data in several interconnected servers in different countries so visitors’ devices can pull from the server closest to their location. This can be faster than pulling data from a server on the other side of the world.SecurityYour website builder should keep your website safe. Specifically, it should use at least two security protocols:Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certification: A protocol that encrypts data sent to and from your site, like email addresses submitted through a contact form. This makes the data difficult for malicious users to intercept or abuse. SSL certification also tells browsers and VPNs your site is safe; some won’t open a site without it. Moreover, Google penalizes sites without SSL, potentially making it harder for sites without it to rank well.Firewall protection: Filtration software that scans traffic to your site and blocks anything that appears malicious -- kind of like the website equivalent of using a filtered pitcher to remove sediment from your drinking water. A firewall may not protect you from everything, especially with over 450,000 malware programs being created each day, but it should protect your site from common threats.Many website builders offer additional security protocols like distributed denial of service (DDoS) protection, which prevents your site from being overwhelmed by floods of malicious traffic, and multifactor authentication to keep unauthorized users out of your account.Customer supportYou should have 24/7 access to customer support through your preferred communication method, whether that’s live chat, email or phone. Representatives should respond within a few minutes on live chat or phone (or 1 to 2 hours via email) and be capable of helping you with most common issues.PricingThere are two website builder pricing models:Traditional web hosting pricing: Used by traditional hosting companies like Hostinger, this pricing model is built around a steep introductory discount (often 50% or more) for long-term contracts (often two to four years). You’ll have to factor the higher renewal cost into your long-term budget if you choose a company using this model.Simplified website builder pricing: Used by companies like Wix, this pricing model doesn’t offer any discounts, but the price also doesn’t change when your contract renews. This makes your long-term accounting easier, as you don’t need to calculate renewal increases, but it can be more expensive.You’ll also want to consider the additional costs of hosting a website. The most common is domain registration, which may be free for the first year (though I often recommend buying your domain elsewhere) but will cost $10 to $30 a year afterward. How CNET tests website builders
My research process starts with examining various website builders’ plans to assess their features, price and relative value. If a company offers high-quality features at good prices, I check reviews on sites like Trustpilot to get a feel for its overall reputation. I also check the company’s Better Business Bureau page (if it has one; only US companies do) for complaints.Next, I perform hands-on testing using our framework for testing web hosting. This involves creating a website and taking one week to evaluate the site builder in five key areas:Ease of use: How simple it is to buy a plan and build a website.Performance: Uptime (the percentage of time a site spends online) and site speed (how many seconds it takes a site to load).Customer support: The number of support channels available and how effective each channel is.I also take a closer look at the security measures and overall pricing structure to determine how the website builder measures up to its competition.I may perform partial testing for AI website builders, which involves generating a website to see how effectively the AI follows my prompts, but does not include the full week of evaluation. Other AI website builders we've tested
GoDaddyGoDaddy is a popular web hosting company that performed reasonably well during my hands-on testing, with great server performance and solid customer service. The website builder also has better security than GoDaddy’s basic shared hosting plan, with SSL certification, firewall protection and anti-DDoS protocols.The downside is that GoDaddy’s website builder is inflexible on the design front. You don’t get much opportunity to customize things during the AI generation process, and the site editor is too simplistic to create a truly unique website. It can be effective for a simple portfolio site, but you’ll want to choose a different site builder if you’re creating anything more complex -- especially since the price rises from $10 a month to $17 a month after the first year.Read our full GoDaddy reviewWixWix has been a popular website builder for a long time, with good reason -- it’s fast, reliable and comes with better customer service than most of the website builders I’ve tested.Unfortunately, the AI website generation process is the one area where Wix majorly disappointed me. The sites it created used layouts that haven’t been popular since the early 2000s, combined with images and text that rarely related to the type of site I created -- and Wix makes it unusually difficult to switch templates later, so you’ll be stuck with the terrible design. Moreover, you’ll pay $17 a month to host your poorly designed AI website. While I do recommend using Wix with a template, I can’t recommend its AI website builder.Read our full Wix reviewSite123Site123 is a freemium AI website builder that thoroughly impressed me during my tests of the best free website builders. Site123 has impressed many others, too, earning a 4.2 out of 5 star ranking on Trustpilot based on 8,500 reviews.Site123 builds an entire website for you in seconds with only a site name and purpose. Once it’s built, your site can be edited with a combination of AI and manual editing tools. You’ll also get access to great SEO tools, including an automated SEO auditor -- something you won’t get from other website builders.As with most free things, however, there’s a catch: Site123 is unclear about how its AI is trained and who owns your data. This may be acceptable if you’re building a site for fun, but it means Site123 should be avoided if you’re creating a professional or business website. Best AI website builder FAQs
What is the best AI to create a website?
Squarespace is the best AI website builder, as the collaborative process lets you choose key design elements like fonts and color schemes so the AI can generate a site that matches your vision. You can also regenerate individual pages -- or the whole site -- as many times as it takes to get the results you want.
Show more
Is there an AI website builder?
Yes, there are several AI website builders, including options from popular website builder companies like Squarespace.
Show more
How much does it cost to build an AI website?
Most AI website builders cost between $10 and $30 a month.
Show more
Is there a free AI site generator?
Yes, there are multiple free AI site generators. However, they tend to come with strict limitations on storage and bandwidth. They may also have shady data practices, putting your content at risk of being misused.
Show more
How fast can AI website generators create a website?
Most AI website generators can create a website in one to five minutes. Some of the more collaborative AI site creation processes may take longer, as much as 10 or 15 minutes.
Show more
About the Author
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert
Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time.
Read full bio
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.