How to Score Bread
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Basic Homemade Bread
The Ultimate Bread Baking Guide
Fry Bread
How to Proof Bread Dough
Undercooked Bread? Here's How to Fix It—and Keep It From Happening Again
Bread Machine Wheat Bread
Scored Half Baked Potatoes
The Ultimate Bread Baking Guide: How to Make Bread from Scratch
Keto Bread
How to Tell When Bread Is Done
How Long Does It Take for Bread to Rise?
Which Type of Yeast Is Best for Your Bread?
Sourdough Bread
A-to-Z Bread
How do you make a quick bread recipe in mini loaf pans?
Why Testing Yeast Is So Important for Good Bread Baking
How to Make Authentic Fry Bread
Here's the Best Bread for Your Favorite Spreads
Five-Topping Bread
Open Fire Bread
Emiko Franzen for Taste of Home
Home
Test Kitchen
How To
How to Score Bread
Emiko Franzen for Taste of Home
By
Kelsey Dimberg
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 13, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Bread scoring is the easiest way to up your bread-baking game. Quick slashes in the unbaked dough ensure the finished loaf rises beautifully, and scoring designs can range from basic to Instagram-worthy.
Bread scoring is the practice of slashing the surface of bread dough immediately before baking it. Why? As crusty bread bakes, it rises quickly and dramatically (bakers call this “oven spring”). The yeast releases carbon dioxide, and the water in the dough rapidly evaporates. A robust oven spring is a good sign that you’ve got an open, airy crumb.
There’s a practical reason for scoring sourdough bread and other types of loaves like baguettes, bâtards and boules—basically any bread baked free-standing rather than in a pan. If you bake the bread plain, the oven spring can cause the loaf to burst open at random, leading to big caverns or swollen shapes. Scoring the bread before baking it lets bakers “guide” the oven spring, optimizing the rise and shape of the baked loaf.
Scoring can be as simple as making a quick slice down the middle of a loaf, but advanced bakers often treat bread scoring as a way to decorate the bread. Advanced bread scoring patterns can transform a humble peasant loaf into a work of art.
How to Score Bread
Emiko Franzen for Taste of Home
Scoring bread is easy, and the simplest scores don’t add much time to the baking process. The only trick? Be prepared with the right tools, a hot oven and design in mind.
Choose a scoring tool
While you can certainly use a special bread-baking tool called a lame (French for “blade”) to score the bread, it’s not essential. Any sharp, thin blade will work: a kitchen knife, scissors or even a razor blade. Make sure it’s clean and dry before using it.
Prep the dough
Follow your bread recipe precisely as written. You’ll score the dough after it rises and is shaped, immediately before it goes into the oven. Make sure your oven is hot and ready to go; don’t let the dough sit once it’s scored, or the pattern will weaken or close up.
Decide on a score pattern
If you’re a beginner, keep the bread scoring design simple. Some good options include:
A slash right down the middle: Run the knife quickly down the center of the bread, holding the blade at a slight angle (about 30º to 45º) so the score will open upward rather than splitting wide. Angular cuts help to create that distinctive “ear” that juts upward from many fancy bakery loaves.
A box shape: If you’re making a circular loaf like a boule or Dutch oven bread, a box cut will ensure a nice rounded shape and even rise. In the center of the loaf, cut four slashes in the shape of a square.
A series of slashes: If you’re making a longer loaf, such as a baguette or French loaves, make a row of short slashes along the length of the bread. This scoring pattern helps it to rise evenly.
More advanced bread scoring patterns are almost infinite. Classic designs include;
Sheath of wheat: A few long, curved slashes surrounded by several shallow, short slices resemble leafy sheaths of wheat.
Leaves: Slice several curved lines around the perimeter of a circular loaf. They’ll burst open into oval, leaf-like shapes.
Emiko Franzen for Taste of Home
Score the dough
The keys to effective bread scoring are confidence and speed. Move with quick, certain gestures; if you work too slowly, you risk tearing the dough rather than slicing it. (A tear won’t rise as neatly.)
The other main considerations are depth and force. Score too shallow, and the cut won’t be significant enough to shape the loaf. Score too deeply, and you risk weakening the loaf’s integrity, even causing it to sink. Your knife tip should dig into the loaf’s surface, about 1/4 inch deep for a grapefruit-sized boule, or up to 1/2 inch deep for large loaves. You should err on the deeper side if you’re making fewer cuts, such as a single score down the middle. Elaborate patterns can be scored with shallower lines.
We like to dust the loaf with flour before scoring. The flour helps prevent the scoring tool from sticking. We also wipe the scoring tool between every slice for the cleanest cuts.
Bake the bread
After scoring, bake the bread as directed in the recipe. Don’t be tempted to open the oven door to check on the design; opening the door will let out precious heat, which you need to achieve that bouncy oven spring.
Emiko Franzen for Taste of Home
Scoring Bread Tips
How do you know your bread is ready to be scored?
The bread is ready to be scored when it’s completely proofed (risen). Scoring happens just before the bread goes into the oven. Bread is ready to bake when you’ve completed all the rising stages called for in your recipe. It should look domed and be at least doubled in size. Gently poke the dough: Your fingertip should leave a slight dent. If all of this sounds daunting, just remember that while bread baking is an art, it’s easy to grasp with the right guidance and practice.
How do you score bread without deflating it?
Think of it as a surface slash—channel Zorro flicking a “Z” into a door with the tip of his sword. Even more delicate breads (like gluten-free breads) can be scored without deflating. If your dough sinks, that simply means that you’ve cut too deeply.
How do you use stencils and flour when scoring bread?
Emiko Franzen for Taste of Home
Stencils are a great tool for guiding fancy scoring patterns. (It’s Kind of like how you’d use a stencil to carve a pumpkin.) You can create your own stencil by drawing your design on a piece of parchment and gently cutting out the pattern. Lay the stencil gently over the proofed loaf. Sift flour all over the loaf. Lift away the stencil. The flour should mark exactly where you need to slice. Score the design, then bake as usual.
Why did the cuts close on my bread?
There are a few reasons that scores may close up during baking. The first culprit? Not cutting deeply enough into the bread. Tentative slices can seal back up as the bread rises. Make sure to clean the blade between each slice. A dirty, doughy blade is dull and won’t cut as well. Finally, score the dough immediately before putting the bread in the oven (and make sure the oven is hot and ready to go). If the loaf sits, the yeast will continue to work, altering the shape and size of the bread and weakening the scores.
Another major cause of failed bread scoring is an over-proofed loaf. If the bread rose too much before baking, it won’t rise as much in the oven, so the scoring won’t be as visible. There’s nothing you can do about this other than learn from it. Experienced bakers are constantly seeking that perfect loaf of bread by refining their technique and learning from their bread-baking mistakes.
Author
Kelsey Dimberg
A former in-house editor at Taste of Home, Kelsey now writes articles and novels from her home in Chicago. After going gluten-free more than a decade ago, Kelsey turned to home cooking and baking as a way to re-create her favorite foods. Her specialties include gluten-free sourdough bread, pizza and pastry.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box