LG OLED C4 Review: High-End Staple Balances Picture Quality and Value - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TVs
LG OLED C4 Review: High-End Staple Balances Picture Quality and Value
LG's OLED C-series was our favorite high-end TV last year, and this year's model proved equally impressive.
Article updated on July 24, 2024 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Bella Czajkowski
Written by
David Katzmaier
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Bella Czajkowski Former Associate Writer Bella covered TVs and home entertainment technology for CNET. She earned a bachelor's degree in journalism from Ohio State University, where she was editor-in-chief of the independent student newspaper, The Lantern. She also earned a master's degree in investigative reporting from Columbia Journalism School. When she's not writing, Bella can be found at the dog park with her rescue pup, Wilson. Expertise TVs | Home Entertainment Technologies
See full bio
David Katzmaier Editorial Director -- Personal Tech David reviews TVs and leads the Personal Tech team at CNET, covering mobile, software, computing, streaming and home entertainment. We provide helpful, expert reviews, advice and videos on what gadget or service to buy and how to get the most out of it. Expertise A 25-year CNET veteran, David has been reviewing TVs since the days of CRT, rear-projection and plasma. He created CNET's methodology for testing TVs, streaming services and AI tools. Prior to CNET he wrote for Sound & Vision magazine and eTown.com. Credentials Although still awaiting his Oscar for Best Picture Reviewer, David does hold certifications from the Imaging Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Standards and Technology on display calibration and evaluation.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Product Tests 14151617181920212223 Testers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Hours Tested
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.7/ 10
SCORE LG OLED C4
$1,397 at Amazon $1,400 at Best Buy$1,397 at B&H Photo-Video
Pros
Excellent overall image quality
Preserves contrast well in bright rooms
Superior contrast and off-angle viewing
Wide variety of size offerings
Cons
Expensive
No major improvements over the C3
Table of Contents
LG OLED C4 Review: High-End Staple Balances Picture Quality and Value
LG C4 series TV sizes
Gallery feature helps TV blend in
Multiconsole gaming made easy
High-end OLED comparison: Samsung S95D and S90D vs. LG C4
Light output in nits
Geek box
2024
OLED TVs are among the best money can buy, and whether you opt for an entry-level model or high-end version, you'll end up with a great picture. The LG C4 combines superb picture quality with a price that's not incredibly unreasonable, making it a top dog among its competitors.When we test OLED TVs in CNET's TV lab, the differences can be extremely subtle because the TVs generally all perform very well. For this review, we compared the LG C4, Samsung S90D and Samsung S95D, which is Samsung's high-end OLED that premiered a new glare-reducing finish this year. We also lined up the TCL QM851, the predecessor of our current best TV, for a comparison between mini-LED and OLED technology and to answer the question for those who may be on the fence: Is it worth upgrading to an OLED TV?Last year's LG C3 was our favorite high-end TV, creating big expectations for this year's version. The C4 is currently about $1,000 less expensive than the G4, the step-up LG OLED, which we also reviewed recently. And while the G4 was one of the best-looking TVs we've seen, we think the C4 is the better value for most people.Between the LG C4 and the Samsung S90D, we give the LG C4 the slight edge. That's mainly because the LG C4's screen looked a bit better in a bright room, with superior contrast to the S90D. For gaming, we also preferred the cinematic image quality of the C4's default picture mode to the more dynamic image of the S90D. Both TVs have excellent overall image quality, however.Still an even better value is the C3, which is still available, substantially discounted from this year's version, and has most of the same features. (We recommend buying older models of TVs for as long as possible, as year-over-year advancements tend to not be super substantial.) But we found the newest version of the storied C-Series OLED TV from LG to be stunning in its own right and a real contender for best high-end TV again this year.LG C4 series TV sizesWe performed a hands-on evaluation of the 65-inch LG C4, but this review also applies to the other screen sizes in the series. All sizes have very similar specs and should provide very similar picture quality. LG OLED83C4PUA (83-inch)LG OLED77C4PUA (77-inch)LG OLED65C4PUA (65-inch)LG OLED55C4PUA (55-inch)LG OLED48C4PUA (48-inch)LG C4OLED42C4PUA (42-inch)Lightweight panel with textured design
Josh Goldman/CNETThe C4's panel is incredibly thin and the backside has a slick textured design that almost looks like shiny gray wallpaper, which is a unique design element that — while will mostly go undetected if mounted to the wall — elevates the overall design of the TV. The bezel is so thin that it's almost nonexistent, like most OLEDs. The C4 is considerably lighter in weight than its competitor, the Samsung S90D.
LG's remote (right) is large, complex and button-heavy. We prefer the simpler Samsung remote (left).  Josh Goldman/CNETLG's remote is unnecessarily complex and feature-rich. It's significantly larger than Samsung's and its extra buttons and scroll wheel didn't actually help us navigate to content more quickly. There are a few aspects that will just seem outdated for most users, like the number pad that's irrelevant in our increasingly streaming-dominant world. The LG remote also has a motion-controlled point-and-shoot cursor, which seems pretty unnecessary and finicky for a TV where you're navigating between apps, as opposed to a computer that requires a cursor.
Josh Goldman/CNETLG's menus are easy to navigate, with apps for an array of streaming services front and center when you power on the TV. The stand is sleek and stable.Gallery feature helps TV blend inBoth the C4 and S90D support Dolby Atmos and a 144Hz refresh rate. The C4 is equipped to handle Dolby Vision, unlike the S90D (or any Samsung OLEDs), but we don't consider that to be a make-or-break feature either way. LG TVs and a handful of others on the market now offer an idle mode, sort of like a screensaver, that displays art when the TV isn't in use. This function was originally a hallmark of the matte-screen Samsung Frame, but additional TV makers now offer the feature that's meant to help the TV blend into the wall (sort of like a gallery, as LG calls it).Multiconsole gaming made easy
Josh Goldman/CNETThe C4, like its competitor Samsung OLED and the step-up LG G4, supports HDMI 2.1. That means the HDMI ports can handle 4K at 120 frames per second and variable refresh rate, as well as enhanced audio return channel and automatic low-latency mode (auto game mode).This versatility in HDMI is important for gaming fanatics looking to support multiple next-gen devices.Four HDMI inputs with HDMI 2.1, HDCP 2.2Three USB 2.0 portsOptical digital audio outputRF (antenna) inputRS-232 port (minijack, for service only)Ethernet (LAN) portHigh-end OLED comparison: Samsung S95D and S90D vs. LG C4
Josh Goldman/CNETTV and movies: In a dark room, we compared the S90D to the LG C4, the Samsung S95D and the TCL QM851. Both the S90D and the C4 looked great, and the following differences were subtle. While watching Trigger Warning, an action movie new to Netflix, the LG had a slight edge in preserving contrast in bright and dark scenes. In the opening scene of the show, as Jessica Alba's character drives through the desert, the contrast is preserved a bit better — despite the sunny scene.The C4 similarly preserves contrast in dark scenes of the same show. It also has better shadow details in super-dark scenes, like in Trigger Warning when a character is smoking a cigarette in a dark room, and the shadowy areas of her face are remarkably visible.I tried watching some documentaries and docuseries, and the C4 and S90D were essentially comparable so far as picture quality was concerned. The slight advantage in contrast and shadow detail of the C4 essentially disappeared with this documentary type of content, which was consistent when we compared the TVs with the Spears and Munsil 4K benchmark footage.For sake of comparison between a high-end mini-LED and entry-level OLED, we introduced the TCL QM851 to this lineup as well. Overall, the QM851 was far brighter than any of the OLEDs. While a bright image can look nice, it can also be inaccurate. When watching Trigger Warning, this was especially apparent with lifted black levels in a bright, outdoor scene. A character wearing a black shirt in the sun looked far less black on the QM851 than it did any of the OLED comparisons.The TCL also had some blurriness with motion, whereas the C4 maintained crispness in the same scene. The C4 also had more depth in its picture than the QM851. In a cooking scene in Trigger Warning, the C4 showed more dimension between people sitting on couches in the foreground and someone grilling toward the back of the space, giving it an overall more immersive, realistic feel. The differences between mini-LED and OLED picture quality are studied and can be somewhat vast, but it's worth noting a few of these differences for those who may be torn between upgrading to an OLED or choosing a more affordable, but still overall good looking, mini-LED.Bright lighting: The C4 screen is glossier than its direct competitor the S90D, which makes it more susceptible to glare. Still, we found the preserved contrast and black levels to be well worth the tradeoff of some glare in a bright room. (We looked at the TV with bright overhead lighting, natural light streaming in from a window off to the side and a combination of the two types of light.)If you're shopping for a TV for an especially bright room, nothing , beats the Samsung S95D. It suffered some contrast loss in these settings, but it effectively reduced glare in a bright room — a reasonable tradeoff, we think. But bear in mind that the S95D is Samsung's high-end OLED series, so it's considerably more expensive than the C4.Light output in nits undefined
TV Brightest mode (HDR)Accurate mode (HDR)Brightest mode (SDR)Accurate mode (SDR)LG C4 1,213968414390Samsung S90D 1,2181,201505182LG G4 1,7991,420792792Samsung S95D 1,7341,666544265LG OLED65G3 1,3781,378725724Samsung QN65S95C 1,3481,326238648LG OLED65C3 861817501464Roku TV Plus 514455579404
The brightest mode for SDR (Vivid) is pretty inaccurate. For the accurate results listed above on the C4, I used ISF Bright picture mode. Note that with SDR, you'll need to disable the Auto Energy Saving setting (General > Energy Saving > Energy Saving Step > Off) and engage Peak Brightness (Picture > Advanced Settings > Brightness > (Peak Brightness: High) to get its full brightness. For HDR, the brightest mode on the C4 was Vivid. Filmmaker was the most accurate picture mode. Gaming: When playing Star Wars: Jedi Survivor on the XBox in their default gaming picture modes, the C4 had a much more cinematic picture than the S90D, especially in dark scenes. Daylight coming in through the window of a ship looked far more realistic on the C4 than on the S90D, where the image was overall brighter and contained less shadow detail.
Josh Goldman/CNETThe C4 also allowed for greater customization of settings, even beyond switching game genres to best suit the content. The S90D allowed tailoring of black levels, but the LG allowed for a whole array of other minor tweaks in its Game Optimizer settings menu. This won't matter to the average gamer, but would appeal for those picture quality fanatics who appreciate the ability to customize even the most granular settings. When we tested input lag, the C4's lag was lowest in game optimizer mode with the game boost on. Again, like with film and TV content, both OLEDs looked great from a gaming perspective and the differences we observed were subtle. Uniformity and viewing angle: The C4 looked good regardless where you watched, consistent with most OLED TVs. The picture was also uniform throughout.Picture settings and testing notes: Filmmaker mode proved to be the overall best picture mode on the C4, both from our quantitative measurements and with the bare eye. Cinema mode was a close second, but it enables some smoothing, which can create the often undesirable soap opera effect.In most picture modes, the ability to accept the game genre while in game mode is grayed out. You instead have to go into all settings, navigate to sound and then select Game Optimizer instead of AI Sound Pro. That will then allow you to change the genre.Geek box undefined
Test ResultScoreBlack luminance (0%) 0.000GoodPeak white luminance (SDR) 414AverageAvg. gamma (10-100%) 2.19GoodAvg. grayscale error (10-100%) 2.17GoodDark gray error (30%) 2.82GoodBright gray error (80%) 1.65GoodAvg. color checker error 2.57GoodAvg. saturation sweeps error 2.31GoodAvg. color error 2.02Good1080p/24 Cadence (IAL) PassGoodInput lag (Game mode) 9.63Good HDR10 Black luminance (0%) 0.000GoodPeak white luminance (10% win) 1213GoodGamut % UHDA/P3 (CIE 1976) 99.08GoodColorMatch HDR error 1.64GoodAvg. color checker error 1.15GoodInput lag (Game mode, 4K HDR) 13.47Good
Portrait Displays Calman calibration software was used in this review. How We Test TVs
CNET TV Coverage
TV Types
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best Gaming TV
Best TV Deals
Best 4k TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best OLED TV Deals
Best Apple TV Deals
TV Sizes
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best 55-Inch TV
Best 43-Inch TV
Best 32-Inch TV
Streaming & TV Accessories
CNET Streaming TV Insider
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
TV Information
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
HDMI vs Optical
TV Resolutions Explained
LCD vs OLED
How to Connect a VCR to Your New TV
BELLA CZAJKOWSKI
Former Associate Writer Bella covered TVs and home entertainment technology for CNET. She earned a bachelor's degree in journalism from Ohio State University, where she was editor-in-chief of the independent student newspaper, The Lantern. She also earned a master's degree in investigative reporting from Columbia Journalism School. When she's not writing, Bella can be found at the dog park with her rescue pup, Wilson.
See full bio
DAVID KATZMAIER
Editorial Director -- Personal Tech David reviews TVs and leads the Personal Tech team at CNET, covering mobile, software, computing, streaming and home entertainment. We provide helpful, expert reviews, advice and videos on what gadget or service to buy and how to get the most out of it.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.