Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD — D7-PS1010 is an E.1 PCIe 5.0 drive with a wrap-around cold plate | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
SSDs
SSD Benchmarks Hierarchy 2025: We've tested over 100 different SSDs over the past few years, and here's how they stack up.
SSDs
The best SSD for the Steam Deck in 2025
SSDs
Lexar NM1090 Pro 4TB SSD Review: A 'Budget' High-End Drive
SSDs
Best SSDs 2025: From blazing-fast M.2 NVMe down to budget SATA
SSDs
Samsung 9100 Pro 8TB SSD review: Bigger, badder, and better
SSDs
Score a 4 terabyte PCIe 4.0 SSD for a mere 5 cents per gigabyte
SSDs
Just $539 for the gargantuan 8TB WD Black SN850X to pop in your gaming rig
SSDs
Sandisk unveils colossal new 256TB SSD with new UltraQLC flash memory
Tech Industry
Nvidia and Kioxia target 100 million IOPS SSD in 2027
SSDs
M.2 SSD cooler displays your SSD's performance and vitals in real time on built-in display
Liquid Cooling
Microsoft develops breakthrough chip cooling method
SSDs
Kioxia unveils 245TB SSD, the world's highest capacity storage device - can store 12,500 4K movies
Cooling
Samsung 990 Pro SSD cooling tested: efficient, with low temps
GPUs
Kioxia’s new 5TB, 64 GB/s flash module puts NAND toward the memory bus for AI GPUs
Artificial Intelligence
Large-scale shipments of Nvidia GB300 servers tipped to start in September
PC Components
Storage
SSDs
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD — D7-PS1010 is an E.1 PCIe 5.0 drive with a wrap-around cold plate
News
By
Bruno Ferreira
published
24 September 2025
Future servers might not need any fans in their storage bays
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Solidigm)
Solidigm has announced what it calls the industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD, the D7-PS1010, in the blade-like E.1 form factor with a PCIe 5.0 interface. The SSD board is ensconced in a wraparound cold plate, with hose connectors at the ends, making for a hot-swappable design that directly cools the controller and NAND chips.The company is pointing this SSD at AI servers with Direct-Attached Storage (DAS, as opposed to using a separate storage). To that effect, Solidigm talks up a partnership with Supermicro, which mentions the E.1S variant of these SSDs is a perfect fit for its Nvidia HGX B300-based servers. The hot-swap design in a compact form factor also helps with maintenance, as conventional liquid-cooled designs can be a bit fiddly whenever they need servicing.The cooling apparatus of D7-PS1010 can cool both sides of the PCB at once and should make for much-improved thermal efficiency compared to traditional fan-based designs. Solidigm claims this design ought to let designers come up with server layouts that entirely eschew fans in their storage bays, potentially making the rack units smaller than ever.
You may like
Sandisk unveils colossal new 256TB SSD with new UltraQLC flash memory
Nvidia and Kioxia target 100 million IOPS SSD in 2027
M.2 SSD cooler displays your SSD's performance and vitals in real time on built-in display
(Image credit: Solidigm)The D7-PS1010 comes in two capacities: 3.84 TB for the 9.5 mm-thick version, and 7.68 TB for the 15 mm variant, with 176-layer TLC 3D NAND chips. Both of them use the E1.S form factor, though it's not hard to imagine that at some point, Solidigm will employ this technology in longer E1.L models. Solidigm says it's "working closely" with multiple ODM (Original Device Manufacturers) and OEMs to qualify both available versions for vendor lists.The SSD's specs are within the expected range for an enterprise SSD and optimized for read-intensive workloads. The D7-PS1010 clocks in at 14,500 MB/s for sequential reads, and 8,400 MB/s for writes. Read IOPS are predictably impressive at 3,200,000 for random reads and a serviceable 315,000 for writes. As for endurance, Solidigm says the SSDs are good for 1 entire drive write per day (DWPD), or a total of 7 petabytes written. The MTBF is rated for 2.5 million hours, and the company offers a five-year warranty coverage.Given the massive power requirements of an AI datacenter, anything that helps with thermal efficiency is most welcome. It's not hard to imagine future datacenters — perhaps the ones that OpenAI and Nvidia will build — using all-liquid cooling for their storage.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See more SSDs News
TOPICS
Enterprise
See all comments (1)
Bruno FerreiraContributorBruno Ferreira is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. He has decades of experience with PC hardware and assorted sundries, alongside a career as a developer. He's obsessed with detail and has a tendency to ramble on the topics he loves. When not doing that, he's usually playing games, or at live music shows and festivals.
Read more
Sandisk unveils colossal new 256TB SSD with new UltraQLC flash memory
Nvidia and Kioxia target 100 million IOPS SSD in 2027
M.2 SSD cooler displays your SSD's performance and vitals in real time on built-in display
Microsoft develops breakthrough chip cooling method
Kioxia unveils 245TB SSD, the world's highest capacity storage device - can store 12,500 4K movies
Samsung 990 Pro SSD cooling tested: efficient, with low temps
Latest in SSDs
Sandisk WD Blue SN5100 2TB SSD Review: A Rhapsody in Blue
Samsung's 4TB 990 Evo Plus SSD drops to a new all-time low of 5 cents per gigabyte
Kioxia Exceria Plus G4 2TB SSD Review: A safe but unexceptional drive
LaCie Rugged SSD4 4TB review: Impressive 40 Gbps speed on Mac and PC
Seagate's humongous 28TB HDD is a massive deal for a limited time at just $11.75 per TB — Desktop Expansion HDD on sale at Best Buy for $329
Just $539 for the gargantuan 8TB WD Black SN850X to pop in your gaming rig
Latest in News
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD
Microsoft develops breakthrough chip cooling method
Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
bit_user
I'd love to see a diagram, since I'm not familiar enough either with server liquid cooling or these SSDs to have a good sense of how all the pieces fit together. I gather we're seeing an enclosure for 5 drives, with two currently plugged in? And does each drive have a pair of valves that plug into the backplane, in order to tap into its liquid cooling system, or does the liquid stay entirely in the enclosure?
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.