Microsoft finally squashed this major Windows 11 24H2 bug - one year later | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
Windows 11
Microsoft finally squashed this major Windows 11 24H2 bug - one year later
Windows PCs that were blocked from receiving the 24H2 update due to this glitch should now be able to install it.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 9:45 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysMicrosoft has fixed a Windows 11 24H2 bug affecting facial scans.Impacted users are no longer blocked from installing 24H2.Three reported issues with 24H2 still need to be resolved.Microsoft has squashed a long-standing bug in Windows 11 24H2 just as it prepares 25H2 for its official launch. Released on Sept. 18, the patch fixes a glitch between facial recognition and the integrated camera on Windows 11 PCs, an issue that was first reported almost a year ago on Oct. 18, 2024.Specifically, this bug prevented people from using the integrated camera with Windows Hello facial recognition. This stopped users from running a facial scan to sign in to the Camera app, any app or service that normally supports facial scanning via Windows Hello, or any other app or device that relied on the integrated camera. Also: Windows 11 lets you run a network speed test right from the taskbar now - how to try itWith this bug a problem for almost a year, affected PCs were put on the block list, meaning they were unable to receive the Windows 11 24H2 update. With the issue now resolved, affected users should be able to snag the update, assuming no other glitches are preventing its installation. "The safeguard hold has been removed as of September 18, 2025," Microsoft said on its Windows 11 24H2 known issues page. "Eligible devices with no other safeguard hold should now be able to install Windows 11, version 24H2 via the Windows Update release channel. Please note, it can take up to 48 hours before the update to Windows 11, version 24H2 is offered. Restarting your device might help it offer faster."To update your PC if necessary, head to Settings and select Windows Update. Click the Check for updates button, and the 2024 update should present itself to be downloaded and installed.Commedy of errorsReleased in October 2024, Windows 11 24H2 proved to be a challenge for Microsoft and its users. Almost from the get-go, the update was plagued by one bug after another, forcing the company to struggle to resolve many of them while blocking the update for affected users. The situation led to a virtual comedy of errors in which one series of patches would try to fix certain issues but instead introduced bugs of its own.After almost a year of bug fixes, Microsoft has finally gotten a handle on most of the outstanding glitches. However, three reported problems remain. Also: 10 open-source apps I recommend every Windows user try - for freeOne issue affects certain Digital TV and Blu-Ray/DVD apps from playing protected content in Windows. This is a brand-new bug, having been reported less than a week ago on September 19. Microsoft says that it's working to resolve the issue in a future Windows update. The second one triggers a blue or black screen error due to a conflict between Windows 11 24H2 and SenseShield Technology's sprotect.sys driver, which provides encryption in certain security applications. This one was opened on April 4, 2025. Microsoft says that it's working with SenseShield to fix the problem. The third centers on an incompatibility between Windows 11 24H2 and certain versions of drivers for Intel Smart Sound Technology (Intel SST) on Intel 11th Gen Core processors, resulting in blue screen errors. This is the oldest reported bug yet to be resolved, reported on September 30, 2024. Here, Microsoft advises affected users to install newer versions of Intel's SST Audio Controller drivers before updating to Windows 11 24H2. What about Windows 11 25H2?As Microsoft works to fix the last of the Windows 11 24H2 bugs, it's also prepping the official release of Windows 11 25H2. Currently available as an RTM (Release to Manufacturing) build, this year's update could appear in October to match the timing of its predecessor last year. Great, but will Windows users run into the same bug-induced challenges with the 2025 flavor of Windows 11? Microsoft has taken several steps to guard against that happening. Also: Microsoft gives Windows 10 its penultimate update - but saves the best for Windows 11First, the 25H2 installation package is smaller than that of previous versions. That's because Microsoft is replacing only the files that need to be updated rather than replacing all the system files. Second, the company is using the same technology applied to regular Windows updates, meaning you'll restart your PC just once after the update has run. Third, Windows 11 25H2 and 24H2 share the same source code. The only difference is that any new features in the 2025 version are disabled in the 2024 version. With Windows 11 24H2 almost free of the many reported bugs that plagued it, the same should hold true for the 2025 edition. More Microsoft
Microsoft at 50: Its incredible rise, 15 lost years, and stunning comeback - in 4 charts
Want free AI training from Microsoft? You can sign up for its AI Skills Fest now
Microsoft's passwordless future is here for Outlook, Xbox, 365, and more
Microsoft's new AI agents aim to help security pros combat the latest threats
The 11 Microsoft apps I ditch on every new Windows install - and the 11 I keep
Microsoft at 50: Its incredible rise, 15 lost years, and stunning comeback - in 4 charts
Want free AI training from Microsoft? You can sign up for its AI Skills Fest now
Microsoft's passwordless future is here for Outlook, Xbox, 365, and more
Microsoft's new AI agents aim to help security pros combat the latest threats
The 11 Microsoft apps I ditch on every new Windows install - and the 11 I keep
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and 3 weeks to act
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use