Acer Predator Connect T7 mesh router review: Expensive and outclassed | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Gaming Monitors
Alienware AW2525HM 25-inch 320 Hz gaming monitor review: Colorful and competition-ready
Networking
I swapped out my laptop's Wi-Fi 6E card for Wi-Fi 7 in minutes and gained 50% more performance for just $54 — here's how you can, too
Routers
TP-Link Deco BE68 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Class-leading 6 GHz performance and competitive pricing
Portable Monitors
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Gaming Laptops
MSI Katana 15 HX review: RTX 5050 gaming for under $1,000
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
Gaming Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops Under $1,000
Motherboards
ASRock X870 Nova WiFi Motherboard Review: Lots of storage, not without sacrifice
Gaming Headsets
Best Gaming Headsets 2025
Gaming Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops Under $1,500
Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers 2025: High-Speed, Low Cost Choices for Wi-Fi 6E and 7
Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Keyboards 2025: Full-size, TKL, Mini, and More
Gaming Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops 2025: Tested, benchmarked and reviewed
Gaming PCs
Best Gaming PCs of 2025
Gaming Headsets
Best Wireless Gaming Headsets 2025: Bluetooth, Budget, and More
Networking
Routers
Acer Predator Connect T7 mesh router review: Expensive and outclassed
With a $329 price tag and only two 1 Gbps LAN ports, the Predator Connect T7 doesn’t seem enthusiast-grade.
Reviews
By
Brandon Hill
published
14 September 2025
Comments (2)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image: © Tom's Hardware)
Tom's Hardware Verdict
Overpriced and outmatched in performance and features, the Predator Connect T7 is a hard sell.
$329.99 at Acer Check Amazon Check Walmart
Pros
+2.4 GHz performance is competitive
+Sleek design
+Can be configured/managed with an app or WebGUI
Cons
-Only two 1 Gbps LAN ports
-Overpriced
-Not available in discounted multi-packs
-The process for a satellite is tedious
-Some software bugginess
Best picks for you
Best Wi-Fi Routers 2025: High-Speed, Low Cost Choices for Wi-Fi 6E and 7
The Best Gaming Routers
Best Wi-Fi Cards for Desktops 2025: Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E, and Wi-Fi 7
Why you can trust Tom's Hardware
Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out more about how we test.
Acer is a name you don’t often associate with wireless routers, but the company does have a small lineup. With the industry having largely transitioned to Wi-Fi 7, it’s natural that Acer would offer a router that supports the latest standard. The Predator Connect T7 definitely fits the bill.It’s a tri-band gaming router that features RGB lighting and a sleek, white design. However, Predator Connect T7’s hardware doesn’t match its gaming aspirations or its lofty price tag.Design of the Acer Predator Connect T7Acer Predator Connect T7 at Acer for $329.99Like many mesh routers on the market, the Predator Connect T7 has a tower-style design. It has a square base that measures 4.29 x 4.29 inches, and it’s 8.35 inches tall. The front of the router has a slim, vertical LED that illuminates blue when the router is online. The top of the router has ventilation slats and additional LEDs. These LEDs pulse blue when there’s internet connectivity, and red when there’s a problem with your connection.The bottom of the router is unremarkable, save for a tiny switch that is used to power on/off the router and a pin-hole reset button (which will take the router back to the factory default mode). Moving to the back of the Predator Connect T7 is where the disappointment starts to settle in. The router features a single 2.5 Gbps WAN port, which is not auto-sensing; it is only usable for WAN purposes and cannot connect a capable wired device for LAN duties. Below the 2.5 Gbps WAN port are two 1 Gbps LAN ports, one of which is labeled as “Game.” Essentially, Acer prioritizes network traffic for games when using this port. There’s also a single USB-C port.Image 1 of 3(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)However, we must consider that the Predator Connect T7 carries an MSRP of $329 for a single node. If you need two to cover your home, you’re looking at $630 for a tri-band Wi-Fi 7 mesh system that only has two 1 Gbps ports dedicated to LAN devices. That’s inexcusable at this price point. You’ll also see that the 1 Gbps limitation also comes into play later in our in-house iPerf3 performance testing.One other thing to consider is that the Predator Connect T7 is marketed as a Wi-Fi 7 mesh router. However, Acer doesn’t currently sell the Predator Connect T7 in multi-pack configurations. Unlike almost every other router manufacturer, i.e., you can’t get a two- or three-pack with discounted pricing. Therefore, if you require a two-node system, you’ll need to pay $329 for each unit, without any discount.Acer Predator Connect T7 SpecificationsSwipe to scroll horizontallyHeader Cell - Column 0 MSRP (2-pack)Wi-Fi Standard# of Bands2.4 GHz Speeds5 GHz Speeds6 GHz SpeedsCoveragePorts (Router)Acer Predator Connect T7$660Wi-Fi 73688432457656,000 sq ft1x 2.5G WAN, 2x 1G LAN, 1x USB-CTP-Link Deco BE68$699Wi-Fi 73688 Mbps4324 Mbps8647 Mbps8,100 sq ft1x 10G, 1x 2.5G, 1x 1G, 1x USBTP-Link Deco BE65 Pro$449Wi-Fi 73688 Mbps4324 Mbps5765 Mbps7,600 sq ft1x 2.5G, 2x 5G, 1x USBNetgear Orbi 870$999Wi-Fi 73688 Mbps8647 Mbps11530 Mbps9,000 sq ft1x 10G, 4x 2.5GAsus ZenWiFi BT8$579Wi-Fi 73688 Mbps4323 Mbps8643 Mbps8,850 sq ft2x 2.5G, 2x 1G, 1x USBToday's best Acer Predator Connect T7 dealsAcer Predator Connect T7 $329.99ViewSee all pricesWe check over 250 million products every day for the best pricesSetting up the Acer Predator Connect T7The setup process for the Predator Connect T7 can be completed using the Acer Connect smartphone app (available for Android and iOS) or a desktop browser. I went through both workflows (with a factory reset in between) to get a sense of how they worked.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Using the smartphone app, I first needed to create an Acer account. Next, you tap the “+” button in the top right corner of the Acer Connect app, which brings you to a visual list of Acer’s wireless router family. I chose Predator Connect T7 and was asked if I wanted to set up the system as a standalone router or a mesh controller (for use in a mesh network). Since Acer provided me with two Predator Connect T7 review units, I opted to configure the first as a Mesh controller. After a few minutes, I was up and running. It was at this point that I performed a factory reset on the router and went through the setup process again using the desktop browser-based WebGUI.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Using this method, I connected to the router via our iPerf3 server, which was connected to one of the 1 Gbps LAN ports. I then logged into the router using the username and password printed on the bottom of the router. From here, the setup process was even quicker, as it automatically detected my internet connection and asked if I wanted to proceed directly to using the router. I obliged and was greeted with the router’s Dashboard. I then clicked on "System" from the left menu and chose "Mesh Controller" for the Operation Mode. The router then performed a reboot to confirm my selection.My two Predator Connect T7 units came in individual retail boxes, not as a set. This means that they weren’t automatically paired with each other; I had to tackle this process on my own. Unfortunately, it’s not very straightforward. With most modern routers, you can easily add a new satellite to your existing network. Typically, you turn on the satellite and add it using a smartphone app or the router’s web GUI on a desktop browser.However, with the second Predator Connect T7 node, I had to repeat the entire setup process. This time, I connected to the second node wirelessly using the SSID/password located on the bottom of the unit. I then fired up my web browser and logged in using the administrator username and password. I again had to click on System, but this time, I selected Mesh Agent, and the unit rebooted. Acer next requires that you simultaneously press the WPS button on both nodes for two seconds and then release to begin the pairing process. I overlooked this step at first, so I had to unplug the second Predator Connect T7 from my usual downstairs (living room) testing spot and plug it in next to the main router.Once it booted, I pressed and released the WPS buttons. After about a minute, the two wireless nodes confirmed that they had paired, as the LEDs on top of both units were gently pulsing blue. I then unplugged the second node, took it back downstairs, and then plugged it back in at my usual testing spot.It's a cumbersome process that Acer should work to improve – or at least provide customers with two- or three-packs that come pre-paired.Acer Predator Connect T7 SoftwareThe main Dashboard for the Predator Connect T7 provides a wealth of information. At the top, you'll find your current internet connection status, along with a link to obtain a SpeedTest result. You'll also see current traffic over the WAN. Directly below is a visual representation of your Mesh topology, along with the connection status between the two wireless nodes. According to the Dashboard, the secondary node has a Multi-Link Operation (MLO) connection to the main router with "Normal" signal strength.At the bottom, you'll see the number of wireless devices connected, current router uptime, and which LAN/WAN ports are active. You can also view the Guest network status and which wireless bands are enabled. By default, the Predator Connect T7 has Band Steering enabled, meaning that the 2.4 GHz, 5 GHz, and 6 GHz bands are all combined under a single SSID (in this case, T7_Mesh_hIrv), and clients will automatically connect to the optimum band to join. An MLO network is separately available (T7_Mesh_MLO).Image 1 of 2(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Here's another peculiarity I encountered: I couldn’t find a setting in the WebGUI to turn off band steering. However, the setting is available using the smartphone app. When Band Steering is disabled, you can set the 2.4 GHz, 5 GHz, and 6 GHz bands to each have its own SSID.Going down the left menu bar, the next stop is Hybrid QoS, which automatically prioritizes data packets for devices equipped with Killer network cards. Even if you don't have a device that can take advantage of Killer prioritization, the Predator Connect T7 can still identify different classes of devices and deliver packets from high priority to low priority: Games, Streaming, Browsing, or Low.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)You can choose to use this Hybrid QoS or Max Throughput (enabled by default)Quick Setup allows you to configure the node in Router, Mesh Controller, or Mesh Agent mode. WAN provides typical settings, including firewall control, the ability to disable or enable UPnP, access to NAT passthrough (for example, if you have an ISP-supplied modem/router gateway), and port forwarding (among other settings). Wi-Fi allows you to set a specific SSID for each wireless band or rely on Band Steering to combine all bands under a single SSID. LAN settings provide the status of connected ports, while IPv6 offers multiple controls for IP assignments.Image 1 of 7(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Home Network Security is a complimentary service offered to Predator Connect T7 users, powered by Trend Micro – you don’t have to pay a monthly or yearly subscription like some other routers. It gives you access to malicious site blocking, network attack blocking, and IoT security protection. They can all be turned on or off all at once, or you can enable only the features you want. There are also comprehensive Parental Controls within this menu.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)While testing, I encountered some software issues. Settings configured with the WebGUI would sometimes not show up in the smartphone app. Or I’d sometimes make a change with the smartphone app, and it wouldn’t propagate to the router at all. Rebooting the router would resolve the issue, but I haven’t encountered this problem with the smartphone apps for other mesh routers.Acer Predator Connect T7 PerformanceTo say that I was disappointed in the two 1 Gbps LAN ports, especially at this price point, is an understatement. We use the fastest LAN port on the wireless router to connect to our in-house iPerf3 server for wireless throughput tests. Given the 1 Gbps limitation, we observed speeds of no more than the high 900 Mbps range for the Predator Connect T7, even on the 6 GHz band. Even when attempting to run the iPerf3 tests on the test server, using each with a Wi-Fi 7 PCIe card connected via the 6 GHz band, I observed speeds of no more than 1.03 Gbps.We use an MSI Pro B650M-A Wi-Fi motherboard, AMD Ryzen 5 7600 processor, 32GB of DDR5 memory, a 1TB PCIe 4.0 SSD, an MSI Herald-BE Wi-Fi 7 adapter, and Windows 11 Home (with all of the most recent Windows Updates applied) as our wireless client. The server is a Windows 11 machine with a 10 Gbps network card built into the motherboard, connected to the 1 Gbps LAN port on the Predator Connect T7.All iPerf3 tests are conducted at distances of six feet and 25 feet, with and without network traffic. In the congested traffic tests, we add six wireless clients streaming 4K YouTube videos and 4K Disney+ content evenly across all bands.Although the Predator Connect T7 was configured with Band Steering to allow each client to connect to the optimum band, I used the advanced setting in Windows 11 for the Wi-Fi 7 PCIe card to manually connect to the 2.4 GHz, 5 GHz, and 6 GHz bands for each test.Image 1 of 6(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Due to the limitation of 1 Gbps LAN ports, I saw a maximum of 944 Mbps in iPerf3 on the 6 GHz band. To put that in perspective, this was half the performance of the Netgear Orbi 870 and Asus ZenWiFi BT8. The TP-Link Deco BE68 was three times as fast. At long range (25 feet), the Predator Connect T7 closed the gap with the other contenders, although it still trailed the third-place ZenWiFi BT8 by over 160 Mbps.Performance on the 5 GHz band was also subpar. Even though the other three competitors easily surpassed 1 Gbps, the Predator Connect T7 couldn't even achieve half that amount. Ideally, the router should have achieved maximum throughput from the 1 Gbps LAN port, as it did during the 6 GHz test.2.4 GHz performance was more or less in line with the other routers, achieving 100 Mbps at 6 feet and 61 Mbps at 25 feet.Performance with congested traffic mirrored that of the uncongested tests, with the Predator Connect T7 occupying a space at the rear of the pack in all the tests (except the 2.4 GHz congested tests).Bottom LineAlthough it’s billed as a gaming router, it’s hard to feel excited about Acer providing just two 1 Gbps LAN ports for devices. For $329 per node, I’d expect at least one 5 Gbps (or 10 Gbps) LAN port along with two 2.5 Gbps ports. 1 Gbps ports are likely a non-starter for a lot of enthusiasts, especially given that many enthusiast-class desktop motherboards are coming with 2.5 Gbps LAN ports at a minimum.We also encountered software bugs, where settings wouldn’t sync between the app and the desktop WebGUI. The process for adding a satellite is more complex than that of competing mesh routers. Additionally, Acer doesn’t currently offer the Predator Connect T7 in discounted multi-pack sets. If you want a two-node system, you must pay the full $329 price twice. Even if we disregard the performance limitations, the pricing is a significant downer for the Predator Connect T7.For $699, you can get a TP-Link Deco BE68 (3-pack) that would absolutely blow the doors off the Predator Connect T7 ($660 for two units), and you’d have even greater coverage. Better yet, the Deco BE68 includes 10 Gbps WAN/LAN port, a 1 Gbps WAN/LAN port, and a 2.5 Gbps LAN port per node. If you don’t need three nodes, a Deco BE65 Pro (2-pack) will cost you just $349.99, which is just $20 more than the cost of one Predator Connect T7. The Deco BE65 Pro will give you two 5 Gbps and one 2.5 Gbps auto-sensing LAN/WAN port(s).No matter how you slice it, it’s hard to recommend the Predator Connect T7.Acer Predator Connect T7: Price Comparison $329.99View No price informationCheck Amazon No price informationCheck WalmartWe check over 250 million products every day for the best pricespowered by
TOPICS
Acer
See all comments (2)
Brandon HillSocial Links NavigationBrandon Hill is a senior editor at Tom's Hardware. He has written about PC and Mac tech since the late 1990s with bylines at AnandTech, DailyTech, and Hot Hardware. When he is not consuming copious amounts of tech news, he can be found enjoying the NC mountains or the beach with his wife and two sons.
Read more
TP-Link Archer BE9700 Wi-Fi 7 router review: Tri-band Wi-Fi 7 at an affordable price
Netgear Orbi 370 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Dual-band Wi-Fi 7 hardware finally makes Orbi affordable
TP-Link Deco BE68 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Class-leading 6 GHz performance and competitive pricing
Best Wi-Fi Routers 2025: High-Speed, Low Cost Choices for Wi-Fi 6E and 7
Acer Nitro V 16S AI review: Value-priced, but outgunned in gaming
Asus ROG G700 review: Premium performance at a sensible price
Latest in Routers
Netgear Orbi 370 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Dual-band Wi-Fi 7 hardware finally makes Orbi affordable
TP-Link Deco BE68 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Class-leading 6 GHz performance and competitive pricing
I created a Time Machine volume for Macs with a TP-Link router to simplify my backup tasks, and it was surprisingly easy
TP-Link Archer BE9700 Wi-Fi 7 router review: Tri-band Wi-Fi 7 at an affordable price
Grab a TP-Link Archer Wi-Fi 6E gaming router at its lowest price ever of $140 in the final hours of Amazon Prime Day
TP-Link Wi-Fi 6E and Wi-Fi 7 routers get big Prime Day discounts
Latest in Reviews
Asus TUF Gaming F16 review: Strong gaming performance offset by skimpy SSD, short battery life
Kioxia Exceria Plus G4 2TB SSD Review: A safe but unexceptional drive
LaCie Rugged SSD4 4TB review: Impressive 40 Gbps speed on Mac and PC
Asus ProArt PA32QCV 6K professional monitor review: Plenty of pixels, color, and brightness
Acer Predator Connect T7 mesh router review: Expensive and outclassed
Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF 27-inch monitor review: A slick portable screen with solid gaming performance
2 Comments
Comment from the forums
HideOut
On the bright side, at least it does have 6Ghz. Some supposeod WiFi7 systems do not, which is fraud. But Toms math fails us. "$329 for a single node. If you need two to cover your home, you’re looking at $630" 329 x 2 is not 630
Reply
Notton
HideOut said:Some supposeod WiFi7 systems do not, which is fraud.Wi-Fi has is its fair share of naming problems, but it should say on the box and product page that the device is dual-band or tri-band.
Most cheaper WiFi7 routers don't have tri-band.
In fact, to make things even more messy, there is a quad-band option for both 6e and 7.
Reply
View All 2 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.