10+ Alexa commands that every Echo user should be using ASAP | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Home
Home & Office
Smart Home
Smart Assistants
10+ Alexa commands that every Echo user should be using ASAP
Amazon Alexa is already a great smart assistant, but there are ways to get more out of it that you may not have considered.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 10:49 a.m. PT
Maria Diaz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Virtual assistants will soon be as commonplace as smartphones -- in many parts of the world, they already are. Most smartphones have a built-in assistant powered by artificial intelligence (AI), whether it's Siri in iPhones or Google Assistant (now Gemini) in Android phones. Inside our homes, though, Amazon Alexa has become the most popular virtual assistant in the US and even around the world. Users from various countries outside the US keep Echo devices in their homes with Alexa set to different languages, becoming a widely adopted virtual assistant.Also: 4 rumored Amazon products that have me truly excited for the September 30 eventI've been using Alexa for a few years, and here are some ways it's changed the way I manage my smart home and use my Echo devices.1. Become a lighting assistantEach time I enter my bedroom's en suite bathroom, an Echo Dot greets me by turning on the lights and saying, "Hello, gorgeous." The Echo Dot's occupancy sensor detects when someone is around and runs the routine of switching on the lights and saying the phrase.I have a smart wall light switch with a built-in motion sensor that constantly goes off at night each time a car's headlights are spotted on the window opposite it. Aside from getting creeped out when my bathroom lights randomly turned on at four in the morning, it was getting annoying, so I delegated the task to Alexa. 2. Streamline your nightly routines
Maria Diaz/ZDNETYou've probably heard of the "Alexa, good night" routine for switching off your smart lights. However, there are many ways to make the most of this and create multiple routines for each bedroom or area in your home. For our main living area, I have a lights-out routine that switches off the living room, kitchen, office, and outdoor lights. This is done with smart lights and smart plugs. Also: All your Alexa recordings will go to the cloud soon, as Amazon sunsets Echo privacyOur kids' room has its own routine: When we say, "Alexa, it's bedtime," their sound machine comes on (powered by a smart plug), their bedside lamp switches off, and their smart light strip turns on to 2% brightness to work as a night light.When I'm ready for bed, another Alexa command switches off my smart lights, turns on the smart plug on my fan, and sets my smart air purifier into sleep mode.3. Find my phoneI often seem to lose my phone when my Apple Watch is dead, but a quick word to Alexa easily solves that. I can just say, "Alexa, find my phone," and the voice assistant initiates a phone call to ring it. Also: Everything you need to know about Alexa+, Amazon's generative AI assistant4. Make Alexa your landline
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETAlexa works for my family much like a landline used to work in my home growing up. Whenever I'm out and can't reach my husband if he's busy with the kids, I can call one of my Echo devices or make an announcement to get in touch with them.Also: Amazon's new AI agent can make an ad from start to finish - how to try itMy kids are getting older, but I have yet to buy them a smartphone, so their Echo Show 5 in their room also helps me reach them easily when I have to talk to them.5. Prompt your kids to the next taskIn the mornings, my kids have an alarm and morning routine through Alexa on their Echo Show, which helps wake them before school. Weekday mornings are busy in my house, as I'm busy packing lunches and snacks at the same time that my little ones are getting dressed, so Alexa nudges them to the next task.A few minutes after their alarm goes off, Alexa switches their lights to daylight white in 100% brightness and tells my kids, "Let's get ready for school." Some time later, it says, "Okay, it's time to go downstairs." This helps my kids stay on task so they're ready to go with their beds made at the right time.6. Track your packagesAlexa can track your Amazon orders from an Echo device by simply asking, "Alexa, where are my packages?" The virtual assistant then tells you where your orders are in their shipping process, and when you can expect them at your door.7. Multiple timers at once
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThe Echo Show 21 is my kitchen companion, thanks to its large display that doubles as a Fire TV, strong speakers, and built-in Alexa. I use it to ask Alexa for recipes and set multiple timers for different things at once. Also: 5 ways Amazon can make an AI-powered Alexa subscription worth the costIf I'm baking and cooking at the same time, it's easy to ask Alexa to keep a cupcake timer, a chili timer, etc. The voice assistant then tracks the multiple timers by name and lets you know which one is done.8. Make your choices more funMany of us use Alexa for fun stuff, like a joke, a fun fact, or definitions. However, you can also ask it to make lighthearted decisions for you. Are you and your partner split on what to eat for dinner? Ask Alexa to flip a coin. If your kids are voting about what game to play for game night? Ask Alexa to roll a die. If you enable the Spin the Wheel skill, you can even give Alexa up to ten names and ask it to spin the wheel to choose one at random. 9. Act as a white noise machineAn Echo speaker can work as a white noise machine, and Alexa can play many different types of sounds, from thunderstorms to brown noise. You can add the feature to your nightly routine or ask the voice assistant for it on the fly. 10. Substitute ingredients and measurementsAs a go-to cooking companion, Alexa can easily offer you ingredient substitution and measurement adaptations, so you can adjust to what you have at home as needed. For example, you can ask Alexa how many tablespoons are in ⅓ cup, or what you can use in place of butter in a cake. 11. Read a bedtime story
Maria Diaz/ZDNETMy kids love a bedtime story, especially made-up ones from their dad (Peter Pants is currently a big hit in my home). Thankfully, the Amazon Kids+ subscription, which comes free for a period of time when you buy a kids' Amazon device, lets you activate a Hey Disney skill that includes plenty of Disney stories and soundscapes.Also: Best early Prime Day Amazon Echo device deals 2025: My 10 favorites sales ahead of OctoberAn Echo device also lets you access Audible stories. You can ask Alexa for these short stories, narrated by charming characters that are sure to offer screen–free entertainment for your kids.12. Handle your pet careSmart pet feeders have been a game-changer for my dog, especially with how busy our lives can be. These inexpensive devices make a big difference in my dog's day-to-day life and are easy to connect with third-party voice assistants, like Alexa and Google. It makes it easy to ask Alexa to feed my dog as needed, or set up routines to feed him when the backyard lights come on, for example. I can also pair the smart feeder with other devices, so Alexa switches on the lights in his area and feeds him in the early morning.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to disable ACR on your TV - and why you should ASAP
Your Apple TV just got a major upgrade for free - 5 features you should try on TVOS 26
These 7 smart plug hacks changed how I run my home - here's the setup
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use