This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
By
Simon Batt
Published 5 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
There aren't a lot of roguelikes out there that I've clocked hundreds of hours in, but the ones that do reach three digits in playtime hours are usually unforgettable. Such is the case of Hades, a roguelike that puts you in control of Zagreus as he attempts to escape the Underworld, much to the chagrin of his father Hades. It's one of those games where you find an excuse to do just one more run, and there's always more runs to do. Well, if you want to hop on the Hades train, now's the time to do it. The game is currently on a steep 75% discount on Steam, putting it at its lowest recorded price ever seen on the platform. And the best bet is, if you end up liking Hades, there's a second game you can check out, too.
Hades is just $6.29 on Steam right now for a limited time
If you've never heard of Hades before, it's an isometric roguelike that has you fight through rooms of enemies to escape the Underworld. There's a nice amount of replayability, as you can unlock new weapons, woo the gods and goddesses trying to help you, and uncover more plot every time you escape. There's even a cool endgame system where you add debuffs and disadvantages to make your run harder, including giving the mini-bosses a better arsenal. Here's how the devs describe it:
Hades is a god-like rogue-like dungeon crawler that combines the best aspects of Supergiant's critically acclaimed titles, including the fast-paced action of Bastion, the rich atmosphere and depth of Transistor, and the character-driven storytelling of Pyre.
As the immortal Prince of the Underworld, you'll wield the powers and mythic weapons of Olympus to break free from the clutches of the god of the dead himself, while growing stronger and unraveling more of the story with each unique escape attempt.
Sound good? You bet it does. If you're interested, Hades is currently only $6.29 on Steam until September 25th as part of a 75% off sale. According to SteamDB, the biggest discount we saw before today was 66% off, so if you've been sitting on the fence, now's the time to grab it. And if you need more convincing, we crowned it as one of the best indie games that do storytelling better than most AAA titles.
5.0/10
Hades
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Fighting
Action
Adventure
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
94/100
Critics Rec:
99%
Released
December 6, 2018
ESRB
m
Developer(s)
Supergiant Games
Publisher(s)
Supergiant Games
3 Images
Close
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
PHYSICAL
In Hades, you have to flee the Underworld and your unloving father to find your mother on Earth. Olympians will support you through the journey by providing you with gifts that help you fight your enemies more effectively on your way out. The game is rich with NPCs, monsters, and settings. You can even customize some of its aspects, such as difficulty.
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
6 days ago
This niche Steam title with 93% positive reviews is free to keep, but only if you're very quick
6 days ago
I turned my old 1080p monitor into a killer home lab dashboard
7 days ago
3 ways I use NotebookLM to be a better writer
6 days ago
I still use Obsidian, but I wish they'd fix its plugin dependency
More from our brands
Hades 2 Fire and Lightning (Ygnium) Build
Hollow Knight: How To Make Fragile Charms Unbreakable
The Best Xbox One & Series X/S Games That Don't Require An Internet Connection
Hades 2 Ire of the Argent Skull (Revaal) Build
Hades 2 Release Date is Now Official, But There's a Catch
There's a huge Assassin's Creed sale right now
— and AC Shadows is included
Hades 2 Pre-Order Guide: Physical Edition, Platforms, And Release Dates
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 Linux features I rely on for maximum performance
NotebookLM’s new feature beats Quizlet at its own game
RDMA is one of the fastest ways to share files from your NAS, these are 6 reasons why you don't need it
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.