Voting and elections | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Voting and elections
Voter registration
How, when, and where to vote
Decide who to vote for
Find my state or local election office
Congressional, state, and local elections
Voting and election laws
How the president is elected
Inauguration of the president
Results of past elections
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Voting and elections
Voting and elections
Most popular
Find out when and where to vote and what ID to bring on Election Day
Find out the requirements for presidential candidates
Learn about updating your name, address, and party affiliation on your voter registration
Find out how to register to vote, where your voting location is, how presidential elections work, and more about voting in the United States.
Voter registration
Learn how and when to register to vote, get a voter card, or change your address or name on your voter registration.
How, when, and where to vote
See how to vote absentee, early, or on Election Day. Learn about voter IDs and who you can vote for.
Decide who to vote for
Learn how to make informed choices by using voter guides and sample ballots to research candidates.
State and local election offices
Find and contact your state or local election office for help with registering and voting.
Congressional, state, and local elections
Congressional elections take place every two years. A variety of local and state elections happen every year. Learn about upcoming elections near you.
Voting and election laws
Find answers to common questions about voting rules and rights in the United States.
How the president is elected
Find out how a candidate becomes president of the United States. Learn about caucuses and primaries, political conventions, the Electoral College, and more.
Inauguration of the president of the United States
Inauguration Day is the day when the president-elect and vice-president-elect are sworn in and take office.
Find results from past elections
Get election results from past House, Senate, and presidential elections. Learn about past Electoral College results. Find out where to get state and local election results.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests