Governance - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Governance
OverviewAt PLOS we are committed to establishing best practices that demonstrate our values at the highest standards. We encourage all PLOS employees to reflect this, no matter their role or responsibilities. We aim to offer transparency and fairness as an open access publisher and welcome any questions or feedback.Polices, procedures and processes will be reviewed regularly to ensure we are both ethically and legally compliant. For further information on our processes or procedures, please see our Governance guidelines and latest policies below.
Governance documents
PLOS Anti-Bribery Policy (April 22, 2024)
PLOS Audit and Risk Committee Charter (October 8, 2022)
PLOS Bylaws (December 15, 2020)
PLOS Code of Ethics (October 10, 2022)
PLOS Compensation Committee Charter (February 5, 2022)
PLOS Conflict of Interest Policy (June 29, 2024)
PLOS Finance Committee Charter (February 23, 2024)
PLOS Governance and Nominations Committee Charter (October 8, 2022)
PLOS Whistleblower Protection Policy (October 10, 2022)
How to report a concern
We strive to foster an inclusive, safe and open working environment. This is why we encourage our employees to speak up if they are dealing with a situation or behavior that does not fall in line with these values or standards. We are committed to addressing genuine concerns professionally and openly.Our 24/7 confidential helpline is available to any member of staff. Further information is available to download below.
Speak up.We’re here to listen.The PLOS Speak Up Helpline is your 24-hour reporting system.Confidential and anonymous, please use the helpline to report workplace ethics concerns or incidents such as discrimination, harassment, Code of Ethics violations, misconduct, privacy breach, security breach, or safety concerns.We know bringing up concerns can be difficult. This helpline is a safe space for you to speak up.You can report your concerns:Online at https://speakup.plos.org/By phone: 1-800-461-9330 (USA),  0808 189 1053 (UK), 0800 181 2396 (Germany), 1800 852 3912 (Singapore)
Related links
Financial overview
Find out more
Scientific Advisory Council
Find out more
Board of Directors
Find out more
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top