The U.S. and its government | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
The U.S. and its government
Buying from the U.S. government
U.S. facts and figures
A-Z index of U.S. government departments and agencies
State and local governments
Branches of government
Elected officials
Federal laws and regulations
Indian tribes and resources for Native Americans
Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
The U.S. and its government
The U.S. and its government
Most popular
How to buy from the U.S. government
Learn about American holidays
Find government agencies
Get facts about the U.S., its laws, history, and statistics. Buy government property. Learn about the president and how to contact elected officials and federal agencies.
Buying from the U.S. government
Find out about surplus sales, collectibles, and other items available through purchase or auction.
U.S. facts and figures
Learn about the United States, including American history, the president, holidays, the American flag, census data, and more.
A-Z index of U.S. government departments and agencies
Get contact information for U.S. federal government agencies, departments, corporations, instrumentalities, and government-sponsored enterprises. Find websites, email, phone numbers, addresses, and more.
State and local governments
Find contact information for state and local government services, your governor, and more.
Branches of the U.S. government
Learn about the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the U.S. government.
Find and contact elected officials
Get the names and contact information for your federal, state, and local elected officials.
Federal laws and regulations
Get copies of your government files. Research federal laws and regulations. Learn about copyrights.
Federally recognized Indian tribes and resources for Native Americans
Find information about and resources for Native Americans and Alaska Native entities.
Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts
Learn about bankruptcy courts, immigration courts, and more.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests