Chris Coyier on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Chris Coyier
Founder, writer, designer, spam-deleter, email personality
@chriscoyier
·
chriscoyier.net
Direct link to the article CSS-Tricks is joining DigitalOcean!
CSS-Tricks is joining DigitalOcean!
Hey hey!
I’ve got a big announcement to make here. (Where’s my gong? I feel like this really needs a good gong hit.)
CSS-Tricks, this very website you’re looking at, has been acquired by DigitalOcean!
You can hear …
Mar 15, 2022
Direct link to the article 7 Fresh Links on Performance For March 2022
cloudflare next.js performance svg icons webpagetest
7 Fresh Links on Performance For March 2022
I have a handful of good links to articles about performance that are burning a hole in my bookmarks folder, and wanna drop them here to share.…
Mar 2, 2022
Direct link to the article Ahmad Shadeed: Use Cases For CSS fit-content
fit-content
Ahmad Shadeed: Use Cases For CSS fit-content
Ahmad Shadeed covers the CSS fit-content sizing keyword. It’s useful! It just doesn’t come up super often. I find myself using min-content a lot more, like when setting up the height of a grid-template-row.
The fit-content keyword is actually …
Mar 1, 2022
Direct link to the article IE Down, Edge Up… Global Browser Usage Stats Are for Cocktail Parties and Conference Slides
browser edge internet explorer
IE Down, Edge Up… Global Browser Usage Stats Are for Cocktail Parties and Conference Slides
I enjoy articles like Hartley Charlton’s “Microsoft Edge Looks Set to Overtake Safari as World’s Second Most Popular Desktop Browser.” It’s juicy! We know these massive players in the browser market care very much about their market share, so when …
Feb 28, 2022
Direct link to the article Trailing Slashes on URLs: Contentious or Settled?
URL
Trailing Slashes on URLs: Contentious or Settled?
A fun deep dive from Zach. Do you have an opinion on which you should use?
1) https://website.com/foo/
2) https://websites.com/foo
The first option has a “trailing slash.” The second does not.
I’ve always preferred this thinking: you use a trailing …
Mar 1, 2022
Direct link to the article Manuel Matuzovic’s CSS Specificity Demo
specificity
Manuel Matuzovic’s CSS Specificity Demo
If you’re looking for a primer on CSS specificity, we’ve got that. And if you’re trying to get ahead of the game, you should be aware of CSS Cascade Layers as well.…
Feb 25, 2022
Direct link to the article My white whale: A use case for will-change
will-change
My white whale: A use case for will-change
Nic Chan:
[…] the will-change property landed in major browsers in August 2015, and I’ve been on the lookout for when to use it ever since. It might seem self-evident to apply it to commonly animated properties such …
Feb 24, 2022
Direct link to the article CSS Database Queries? Sure We Can!
database
CSS Database Queries? Sure We Can!
Kinda silly sounding, isn’t it? CSS database queries. But, hey, CSS is capable of talking to other languages in the sense that it can set the values of things that they can read. Plus, CSS can request other files, and …
Feb 24, 2022
Direct link to the article Before I go: When it comes to complaining about web browsers
advice
Before I go: When it comes to complaining about web browsers
That’s a damn one-two punch from Dave. He goes for the ultimate clickbait title¹, then follows up with a pile of epic advice for us all. If you want web browsers to get better, listen up:
Complaining on …
Feb 22, 2022
1
2
3
...
433
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top