The Best Robot Vacuum of 2025, According to Our Testing | Reviews by WirecutterAdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTWirecutterWirecutterSkip To ContentHow can we help?Help me decide on...Show me the research on...How can we help?WirecutterWirecutterLog inAccountHome & GardenVacuums, Cleaning, & Laundry Vacuum Cleaners Vacuum cleaners Upright vacuums Cordless vacuums Robot vacuums Handheld vacuums Hardwood floor vacuums Vacuums for pet hair Car vacuums Mops & Cleaners Wet mops Portable carpet & upholstery cleaners Carpet cleaners Wet/dry vacs Brooms, dustpans, & dust mops Surface cleaners & disinfectants Laundry Washers & dryers Compact washers & dryers Irons Ironing boards Clothing steamers Laundry detergents Stain removersBathroom Toilet Toilets Bidets Toilet papers Toilet brushes Toilet plungers Squatty potties Shower Shower heads Shower curtains Shower caddies Shower mats Bathroom Bathroom scales Bath towels Bath mats Grab barsGarden & Outdoors Gardening & Lawn Garden hoses Hose nozzles Gardening gloves Garden pruners Gifts for gardeners Lawn mowers Robot lawn mowers Reel mowers Sprinklers Smart sprinkler timers Maintenance Leaf blowers Snow blowers Pressure washers Chainsaws String trimmers Snow shovels Wet/dry vacs Patio Patio furniture Outdoor sofas & chairs Patio umbrellas Patio heaters Smokeless fire pits Mosquito repellents for yardsHeating, Cooling, & Air Quality Heating Space heaters Heat pumps Cooling Air conditioners Portable air conditioners Ductless air conditioners Fans Cordless fans Smart thermostats Air Quality Air purifiers Humidifiers Dehumidifiers Home air quality monitors Water Quality Water filter pitchers Under‑sink water filters Faucet‑mounted water filters Water quality test kitsHome & Decor Decor Area rugs Rug pads Removable wallpapers Throw blankets Essential oil diffusers Scented candles Jewelry boxes & organizers Window Treatments Curtains Blackout curtains Blackout shades Furniture Sofas Sleeper sofas Massage chairs Dining tables Lighting Floor lamps Desk lamps Bedside lamps All HomeHome Improvement Tools Drills Multi‑tools Stud finders Screwdrivers Basic toolkits Toolboxes Ladders Storage & Organization Storage containers Shoe racks Hangers Electric LED light bulbs Surge protectors Extension cords Pest Control Roach killers Ant killers Mousetraps Mosquito repellents for yards Wasp & hornet sprays Bug‑killing gearHome Security & Safety Security Systems & Cameras Home security systems Indoor security cameras Outdoor security cameras Doorbell cameras Locks Electronic keypad door locks Smart locks Door locks Safety Basic smoke alarms Smart smoke alarms Fire extinguishers Flashlights Emergency Preparedness Emergency preparedness supplies Emergency weather radios Portable generators All Home Security & SafetyOffice Printers All‑in‑one printers Home printers Laser printers Monitors Monitors 4K monitors 27‑inch monitors Portable monitors Office Essentials Webcams Office headsets Laptop stands Monitor arms Label makers Document Security Paper shredders Fireproof document safes Stationery Pens Notebooks & notepads Planners Office Furniture Standing desks Office chairs Ergonomic seat cushions All OfficeSleep Mattresses Mattresses Mattresses for side sleepers Mattresses for back pain Memory foam mattresses Cheap mattresses Hybrid mattresses Innerspring mattresses Air mattresses Mattress toppers Bedding Sheets Cotton sheets Comforters Duvet covers Pillows Pillows Pillows for side sleepers Memory foam pillows Bedroom Modern bed frames Platform bed frames Nightstands Blankets Weighted blankets White noise machines Alarm clocks Sunrise alarm clocks All SleepKitchenLarge Appliances Fridges Refrigerators French door refrigerators Side‑by‑side refrigerators Garage refrigerators Counter‑depth refrigerators Wine coolers & fridges Freezers Upright freezers Chest freezers Stoves, Ranges, & Ovens Electric stoves & ranges Gas stoves & ranges Slide‑in electric ranges Slide‑in gas ranges High‑end ranges Induction cooktops Wall ovens Dishwashers Dishwashers All Large AppliancesSmall Appliances Small Appliances Microwaves Food processors Toasters Electric kettles Portable induction cooktops Mini fridges Countertop ice makers Stand mixers Juicers Blenders Blenders Personal blenders Immersion blenders Specialty Ice cream makers Soda makers Waffle makers Pizza ovens Air Fryers & Toaster Ovens Air fryers Air fryer toaster ovens Toaster ovens Cookers Rice cookers Pressure cookers Slow cookers All Small AppliancesCooking & Baking Cookware & Bakeware Nonstick pans Cookware sets Stainless steel pans Cast iron skillets Dutch ovens Woks Induction cookware Pizza stones & baking steels Baking sheets Mixing bowls Tools Meat thermometers Cutting boards Kitchen scales Oven mitts & pot holders Vacuum sealers Pepper mills Spatulas Knives Chef's knives Knife sets Steak knife sets Serrated bread knives Paring knives Knife sharpenersCoffee & Tea Coffee Makers Coffee makers Drip coffee makers Single‑serve coffee makers Cheap coffee makers Cold‑brew coffee makers Espresso Machines Espresso machines Nespresso machines Coffee Gear Coffee grinders French presses Pour‑over coffee gear Milk frothers Tea Electric kettles Teas All Coffee & TeaFood & Drinks Pantry Olive oils Instant noodles Canned tomatoes Tinned fish Peanut butters Nut‑free seed butters Potato chips Boxed cake mixes Boxed mac and cheese Refrigerator American cheeses Ketchups Butters BBQ sauces Yogurts Freezer Vegan ice creams Vanilla ice creams Frozen pizzas Drinks Blanco tequilas Vodkas Gins Hard seltzers Nonalcoholic drinks Nonalcoholic wines Wine clubs All Food & DrinksDining, Entertaining, & Grilling Tableware Flatware Dinnerware sets Steak knife sets Drinking glasses Cloth napkins Tablecloths Tapered candles Outdoor dinnerware Wine & Bar Wine glasses Corkscrews Wine coolers & fridges Cocktail barware Dining Tables & Seating Dining tables Folding tables Folding chairs Patio furniture Grilling Gas grills Charcoal grills Pellet smoker grills Portable grills Outdoor griddles Grill tools & accessories All Dining & EntertainingSupplies Storage Food storage containers Dry food storage containers Lunch boxes Cleaning Dish racks Kitchen towels Dish soaps Dishwasher detergents Waste Kitchen trash cans Compost bins Food recyclersHealth & LifestyleFitness Exercise Treadmills Under‑desk treadmills Exercise bikes Rowing machines Adjustable dumbbells Yoga mats Massage guns Gym bags Running headphones Workout headphones Trackers Fitness trackers GPS running watches Bikes & Scooters Hybrid bikes Electric scooters Ebikes Biking Gear Bike helmets Bike lights Bike locks Bike phone mounts Rear bike racks Bike pumps Bike storage ideas Car bike racks All FitnessHealth Medical Blood pressure monitors Thermometers Heating pads Pill boxes Compression socks Over‑the‑counter hearing aids Accessibility & Aging Walkers Medical alert systems Adult diapers Incontinence underwear Grabber tools Mental Health Meditation apps Light therapy lamps All HealthPersonal Care Skin Care & Sunscreen Sunscreens Face sunscreens Moisturizers Body lotions Vitamin C serums Retinols Exfoliants Korean skin care products Facial cleansers Red light devices Hydration Water bottles Travel mugs Dental Electric toothbrushes Water flossers Menstruation Period underwear Menstrual cups & discs Adult & Sex Vibrators Anal toys Condoms Lube Portable vaporizers Cannabis grindersBeauty & Hair Beauty Lip balms Concealers Eyeliners Mascaras Drugstore makeup Makeup brushes Makeup removers Hair Removal & Shaving Electric razors Beard trimmers Pubic hair trimmers Hair clippers Hair Hair dryers Shampoo bars Dry shampoosOutdoors Outdoors Bug repellents Coolers Umbrellas Binoculars Ski goggles Apparel Rain jackets Down jackets UPF clothing Camping Camping tents Sleeping bags Sleeping pads Camping chairs Hiking Hiking boots Hiking socks Trekking poles Filtered water bottles Beach Beach umbrellas & shades Beach bags Beach towels Safety Portable generators Pocket knives Headlamps Hand warmers FlashlightsTravel Luggage Checked luggage Duffel bags Garment bags Underseat luggage & personal‑item bags Carry‑on luggage Hard‑shell carry‑on luggage Carry‑on travel backpacks Travel backpacks Packing Toiletry bags Packing cubes Packable daypacks Gear Travel gear Travel pillows Sleep masks Plug adapters Luggage tagsHobbies Hobbies Pickleball paddles Drones DNA testing kits Telescopes Reading lights Electric scooters Language learning apps Music & Instruments Beginner digital pianos Beginner ukuleles Art & Design 3D printers 3D pens Drawing tablets Sewing machines Colored pencils Soldering irons Photo Photo printers Instant photo printers Online photo printing services Photo book services Digital photo frames Cameras Instant cameras Mirrorless cameras Point‑and‑shoot camerasGames & Puzzles Board & Card Games Board games Two‑player board games Solo board games Beginner board games for adults Strategy board games Kids board games Card games Video Gaming Gaming consoles Handheld gaming consoles VR headsets Gaming laptops Gaming mice Gaming monitors Graphics cards Gaming chairs Lego Lego sets for adults Lego sets for kids Puzzles Speed cubes All Games & PuzzlesPets Dogs Dog leashes Dog harnesses Dog beds Dog crates Dog DNA tests Dog nail grinders Dog jackets & raincoats Cats Cat litters Litter boxes Automatic cat litter boxes Cat litter mats Cat scratchers Cat beds New cat checklist Home Pet cameras Water fountains Automatic feeders All PetsTechElectronics & Networking Networking Wi‑Fi mesh‑networking kits Routers Modems Wi‑Fi extenders Digital Storage External hard drives NAS devices External SSDs Batteries & Charging Portable chargers Lightning cables Portable power stations Rechargeable batteries Uninterruptible power supplies Surge protectors Extension cords Electric vehicle chargers Wireless Charging Wireless chargers Apple charging stations USB‑C USB phone chargers USB‑C cables & adapters USB‑C laptop chargers USB‑C hubs All ElectronicsPhones, Tablets, & Smartwatches Phones Android phones Budget Android phones iPhones iPhone cases iPhone 16 cases iPhone screen protectors Cell phones for older adults Car phone mounts Cell phone plans Tablets Tablets Android tablets iPads iPad keyboard cases iPad Pro keyboard cases iPad Pro cases iPad styluses E‑readers E‑readers Smartwatches For Android phones For iPhonesComputers Laptops Laptops Chromebooks MacBooks Business laptops Laptops for college students Laptops under $500 Computers All‑in‑one computers Mini desktop PCs Monitors Monitors 4k monitors 24‑inch monitors 27‑inch monitors Ultrawide monitors Portable monitors Accessories Wireless mice Security keys Keyboards Keyboards Wireless keyboards Mechanical keyboards Ergonomic keyboards Gaming keyboards Software Password managers VPNs Free VPNsAudio Speakers Bluetooth speakers Portable bluetooth speakers Surround‑sound speakers Computer speakers Outdoor speakers Multiroom wireless speakers Smart speakers Soundbars Headphones Headphones Over‑ear headphones Noise‑cancelling headphones Sleep headphones Bone‑conduction headphones Earbuds Wireless earbuds Wired earbuds Workout earbuds Home Audio Turntables & record players AV receivers Stereo amps & receivers USB audio interfaces All AudioVideo TVs TVs OLED TVs 4K TVs LCD/LED TVs 32‑inch TVs 40‑ to 49‑inch TVs TV wall mounts Gaming TVs Home Theater Streaming devices 4K Blu‑ray players HDMI video transmitters HDTV antennas Soundbars Projectors Projectors Portable mini projectors Budget projectors Projector screens Outdoor projectorsCameras & Photo Cameras Instant cameras Mirrorless cameras Point‑and‑shoot cameras Dash cams Camera Accessories Smartphone Photography iPhone photo lenses Smartphone tripods Smartphone gimbals Photo Holiday photo cards Photo printers Instant photo printers Online photo printing services Photo book services Digital photo framesSmart Home Indoor Plug‑in smart outlets Smart thermostats Smart window shades & blinds Smart LED light bulbs In‑wall smart light switches & dimmers Smart water‑leak detectors Smart smoke alarms Smart locks Smart speakers Outdoor Smart outdoor lighting Smart sprinkler timers Smart garage door openers Security Systems & Cameras Home security systems Outdoor security cameras Indoor security cameras Smart doorbell cameras All Smart HomeBaby & KidPregnancy & Nursing Pregnancy Pregnancy tests Body pillows Nursing & Pumping Breast pumps Wearable breast pumps Pumping bras Nursing bras Nursing pillows Bottles & Formula Baby bottles Bottle warmers Baby formulas All Pregnancy & NursingBaby Sleep Bassinets & co‑sleepers Cribs Crib mattresses Baby monitors Baby swaddles Carry Baby carriers Baby wraps & slings Diapering & Bath Diapers Cloth diapers Diaper pails Diaper bags Baby bathtubs & bath seats Baby care essentials Home Safety Baby‑proofing tools Baby gates Car Seats Infant car seats Convertible car seats Travel car seats Seats Baby bouncers & rockers Baby swings High chairsClothing & Health Clothing Kids pajamas Kids underwear Kids beachwear Kids rain and snow boots Kids sandals Health Kids electric toothbrushes ThermometersSchool & Tech Backpacks Kids backpacks High school & college backpacks Lunch & Hydration Kids lunch boxes Kids water bottles Food thermoses Nonplastic plates and cups School Supplies Pencils for schoolwork Mechanical pencils Pens Notebooks & notepads Planners Kids labels Tech First phones for kids Smartwatches for kids Apps for managing kids' phones Kids tablets Kids headphones All SchoolToys Indoor Toys Lego sets Dolls Kids board games Bath toys Toy subscription boxes Craft subscription boxes Outdoor Toys Scooters Balance bikes First pedal bikes Kids bike helmets Tricycles Collapsible folding wagons Sleds Trampolines All ToysTravel Car Seats Infant car seats Convertible car seats Travel car seats Booster car seats Strollers Strollers Double strollers Jogging strollers Travel strollers Umbrella strollers Wagons Collapsible folding wagons Stroller wagons Travel Kids bike seats Kids travel gearStyleApparel Tops Men’s button‑up shirts Men’s white t‑shirts Women’s white t‑shirts Cashmere sweaters Thermal underwear Pants Men’s jeans Women’s jeans Leggings Rain pants Jackets Rain jackets Down jackets Insulated vests Men's suits Swimwear Women’s swimsuits Kids Kids pajamas Kids underwear All StyleUnderwear & Sleep Underwear Bras Women’s underwear Period underwear Boxer briefs Sleep Robes Pajamas Slippers Sleep masksShoes Boots Winter boots Rain boots Hiking boots Sneakers Running shoes White sneakers Seasonal Sandals Water shoes Ice cleats for shoes Socks Compression socks Hiking socks No‑show socksBags & Accessories Bags Tote bags Laptop tote bags Messenger bags Fanny packs Briefcases Backpacks Laptop backpacks High school & college backpacks Kids backpacks Bag Accessories Slim wallets Accessories Umbrellas Black tights Shapewear Hair ties & clips Glasses Cheap sunglasses Blue‑light blocking glasses Online prescription glassesGiftsGifts for Grown-Ups For Occasions Housewarming gifts Anniversary gifts Retirement gifts Birthday gifts for her Gifts for coworkers Gifts for new moms Bridal shower gifts Flower delivery Gift baskets Photo gifts For Loved Ones Gifts for boyfriends Gifts for girlfriends Gifts for moms Gifts for dads Gifts for grandparents Gifts for someone who has everything Under Budget Gifts under $25 Gifts under $50 Gifts under $100 All Gifts for Grown‑UpsGifts for Kids Ages Younger Than 6 Gifts for infants Gifts for 1‑year‑olds Gifts for 2‑year‑olds Gifts for 3‑year‑olds Gifts for 4‑year‑olds Gifts for 5‑year‑olds Gifts for 6‑year‑olds Ages 7 & Up Gifts for 7‑year‑olds Gifts for 8‑year‑olds Gifts for 9‑year‑olds Gifts for 10‑year‑olds Gifts for tweens Gifts for teens All Gifts for KidsGifts to Give Tech Digital photo frames Instant cameras Instant photo printers Turntables & record players Drones Massage guns VR headsets Karaoke machines 3D pens Games Board games Two‑player board games Board games for kids & families Card games DNA Test Kits DNA testing kits Dog DNA tests Everything Else Smokeless fire pits Mug warmers Smart bird feeders Disposable camerasDeals Deals by Retailer Apple deals Best Buy deals Target deals Walmart dealsPodcastDealsWe independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more›BROWSESections in this articleWhy you should trust usWho this is forHow we picked and testedTop pick: Roborock Q5 Max+Budget pick: Eufy RoboVac 11S MaxWhat to look forward toThe competitionWhy we don’t currently recommend vacuums from iRobotWhat about robot vacuum-mop combos?Care and maintenanceSourcesAppliancesVacuum cleanersThe Best Robot VacuumUpdated August 28, 20252 DealsMarki Williams/NYT WirecutterBy Sabine HeinleinSabine Heinlein covered floor care. Keeping her multi-pet home clean is one of her more acceptable obsessions.FYIOur top pick, the Roborock Q5 Max+, will be gradually phased out by Roborock and replaced with new vacuum-mop combo models.Our budget pick, the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max, will also be retired soon.We plan to test several new robot vacuums (as well as vacuum-mop combos) and will update this guide with our findings.August 2025Robot vacuums are feats of engineering. Even a basic bot can keep your floors tidy with little effort on your part, handling pet hair and dust adeptly. Top-tier models can map your home, schedule cleanings, take voice commands, and empty themselves.But don’t set your expectations too high. These machines excel in routine midweek cleanups but can’t replace traditional plug-in vacuums, especially on rugs. And even the fanciest models can drive you mad, getting tangled or trapped, or missing piles of dirt.In our most recent testing, we tried 13 models, from cheap, aimless bumblers to sophisticated machines that (usually) navigate with ease. We think that the Roborock Q5 Max+, with its self-emptying dock, and the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max are your best choices. (If you’re curious about hybrid models that can vacuum and mop, we have some information on those, too.)Everything we recommendTop pickA pretty smart robot vacuum that empties itselfRoborock Q5 Max+This bot is a top-notch cleaner and a great navigator that avoids (most) obstacles while keeping on top of scattered debris. It comes with a charging dock that sucks debris from its dustbin after it cleans.$310 $247 from eBay (feature-identical Q5 DuoRoller+ model)Use promo code FRESHPICKS$300 $217 from eBay (refurbished)Use promo code FRESHPICKSBuy from AmazonBudget pickAn unassuming but mighty robotEufy RoboVac 11S MaxThis solid, affordable robot vacuum has a large bin and excellent cleaning power. It can be scheduled to clean, but it can’t be controlled with an app.$130 $86 from eBayYou save $44 (34%)$160 from Amazon$160 from WalmartHow we testedCleaning powerWe measured and compared how much debris each model picked up. IntelligenceWe checked how well each model performed around obstacles and assessed the user-friendliness of app-controlled bots. ConvenienceWe checked each bot’s noise level, whether it moved easily under and around furniture, and whether its brushes could tackle corners. SustainabilityWe checked whether a model could be repaired and whether replacement parts are easily available. Top pickA pretty smart robot vacuum that empties itselfRoborock Q5 Max+This bot is a top-notch cleaner and a great navigator that avoids (most) obstacles while keeping on top of scattered debris. It comes with a charging dock that sucks debris from its dustbin after it cleans.$310 $247 from eBay (feature-identical Q5 DuoRoller+ model)Use promo code FRESHPICKS$300 $217 from eBay (refurbished)Use promo code FRESHPICKSBuy from AmazonThe Roborock Q5 Max+ was one of the most thorough cleaners we tested, picking up more debris than some costlier models. It’s one of the best navigators we’ve tried, able to map multiple levels of your home and remember a room’s layout.This model’s user-friendly app offers dozens of customizations, such as scheduling cleaning cycles, vacuuming specific rooms, and sending the bot back to places it may have missed. It also allows you to block off areas that you don’t want cleaned.While Roborock’s obstacle-detection system isn’t perfect, the Q5 Max+ avoided hurdles more effectively than the other robots we tested. It’s also one of the quietest robots we’ve tried, which comes in handy if you have skittish pets or are easily distracted. It comes with a charging station that automatically empties the robot’s dustbin into a large, disposable bag.The Q5 Max+ has a one-year warranty.Budget pickAn unassuming but mighty robotEufy RoboVac 11S MaxThis solid, affordable robot vacuum has a large bin and excellent cleaning power. It can be scheduled to clean, but it can’t be controlled with an app.$130 $86 from eBayYou save $44 (34%)$160 from Amazon$160 from WalmartIn our cleaning tests, the basic Eufy RoboVac 11S Max outperformed even robots with fancy navigation, sucking up more debris than most, including along baseboards and close to walls. Its low height allows it to effortlessly glide under furniture to pick up dust bunnies and missed kitty treats.The 11S Max is so quiet and nimble that it fades into the background like no other robot we’ve tested. It doesn’t connect to an app, but it does come with a remote control for scheduling it to clean and directing it to missed spots. But its navigation system tends to be random, and its bumbling aimlessness gets on some people’s nerves.It comes with a one-year warranty.Back to topThe researchWhy you should trust usStaff writer Sabine Heinlein has been a journalist for over two decades. She obsesses over how to remove fur from every corner of her home and hairballs from her heirloom rugs.We’ve tested dozens of robot vacuums since 2012, including 13 models in 2023. We spent more than 80 hours examining the robot vacuums and testing the top contenders in a multi-pet, multistory, multi-surface home.For this guide, we interviewed representatives from companies that make robot vacuums, including iRobot, Roborock, and Ecovacs. We pored over owner reviews and talked to robot-vacuum owners. We also employed the AI tool FindOurView to identify important themes and issues in thousands of customer reviews.Who this is forAnyone who wants to keep their floors looking clean can benefit from a robot vacuum. If you’re short on time, have mobility or dexterity issues, or simply hate vacuuming, a robot vacuum can probably make your life easier.Bots don’t procrastinate or get bored, so they spend more time cleaning. Pet owners and people with young kids in particular seem to gain a lot from bots, and many robot-vacuum owners have told us that they are amazed at how clean their floors look and feel after they start using one regularly.However, while a robot vacuum is great at cleaning superficially, it has only a fraction of the suction power of a good upright or canister vacuum. Bots make great secondary options, but even the most expensive ones leave much to be desired: They fail to remove dirt embedded deep in carpets and rugs, and they often neglect dust close to baseboards and thresholds. While obstacle-avoidance technology has improved in recent years, don’t rely on your robot to avoid getting tangled up in cords, toys, and socks. You’ll still have to tidy up before you start your cleaner.How we picked and tested We weighed the contents of each bot’s dustbin after a cleaning cycle to determine how much debris it had collected. Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterWe tested 15 robot vacuums in 2023 and 2024. Here’s what we evaluated:Cleaning performance: For every robot vacuum we tested, we ran at least three regular cleaning cycles across a 600-square-foot space with furniture, obstacles, thresholds, and a couple of low-to-medium-pile area rugs. We evenly spread a mix of rice, cat litter, and Cheerios around the living room, hallway, and kitchen. We weighed each bot’s dustbin before and after the cleaning cycle to determine how much debris it had collected. We also checked how each bot coped with rabbit and cat fur, litter, and strands of hay, and we sprinkled a tablespoon of baking soda alongside baseboards to see how much it was able to gather. We also noted whether a robot’s self-emptying dock worked as intended.Obstacle navigation: We noted whether the robot was able to climb the 0.75-inch threshold to the bathroom, how often it got tripped up by obstacles, and whether it elicited certain failure messages repeatedly.App and voice controls: Where pertinent, we assessed the user-friendliness of the model’s app and checked whether its features were useful and functioning properly. Where applicable, we assessed a test model’s compatibility with voice assistants like Alexa and Google Home.Repairability and reliability: We collect long-term data from the owners of our picks and, if applicable, look at data from the AI-assisted user-review analysis tool FindOurView.In addition, we long-term test all of our picks in a variety of households, sometimes for years or more, to determine durability and performance. We also checked whether replacement parts, such as battery packs and brushes, are easily available and affordable.Top pick: Roborock Q5 Max+
Marki Williams/NYT WirecutterTop pickA pretty smart robot vacuum that empties itselfRoborock Q5 Max+This bot is a top-notch cleaner and a great navigator that avoids (most) obstacles while keeping on top of scattered debris. It comes with a charging dock that sucks debris from its dustbin after it cleans.$310 $247 from eBay (feature-identical Q5 DuoRoller+ model)Use promo code FRESHPICKS$300 $217 from eBay (refurbished)Use promo code FRESHPICKSBuy from AmazonIf your pets shed like they’re planning to join a nudist colony or your kid is a human Cheerios cannon, a robot vacuum is a great sidekick to a more powerful plug-in model. The Roborock Q5 Max + ranked among the most thorough and quietest cleaners we tested, and it has useful smart features and mapping technology to boot. This model comes with a dock that automatically empties its dustbin into a bag. The Q5 Max+ comes with a self-emptying dock. Marki Williams/NYT WirecutterIt’s an excellent cleaner. In our tests, the Q5 Max+ cleaned better than any other smart robot at its price, sucking up almost 90% of the rice, Cheerios, fur, and baking soda we put down.It’s an adroit, speedy navigator. Using its laser rangefinder (lidar) and bump sensors, the Q5 Max+ learns your floor plan in a swift, single session. In our tests, it quickly mapped the home before embarking on its cleaning run, which took about half the time of that of many other robot vacuums.It can avoid obstacles and cross (some) thresholds. In our tests, even when the Q5 Max+ bumped into an object its lidar turret missed, it course-corrected faster and more accurately than other bots.While you can’t expect this model to run up the stairs, it climbed a 0.75-inch bathroom threshold that most other bots didn’t even attempt to cross over. In our tests, only the iRobot Roomba 694 and the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max (sometimes) made it from the hallway into the bathroom.The Roborock vacuum was able to scale the 0.75-inch threshold to the bathroom.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThe Roborock Q5 Max+ picked up less dust along baseboards and at the edge of the room than our budget pick did.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThe Roborock vacuum was able to scale the 0.75-inch threshold to the bathroom.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterIt has a great app and useful smart features. Roborock’s app lets you map your home faster and more accurately than those of most other smart bots we tested. It is user-friendly and intuitive, and it can store up to four maps of your home in both 2D and 3D. The app also lets you turn on spot cleaning (to get rid of isolated spills) and auto-boost mode (for fur-covered carpets, for instance), as well as schedule cleaning sessions.It is equipped with a remote control and a “Pin n Go” function, which makes it easy to direct the robot toward spots it may have missed. (We have, for example, used it in our baking soda/baseboard test.)Compatible with Siri, Alexa, and Google Home, Roborock’s app generally responds well to voice commands — as long as you pronounce Roborock like Robo Rock, a common complaint among users. For example, you can say “Hey Alexa, send Robo Rock to vacuum the dining room,” and off it goes.The Q5 Max+ and its emptying dock are relatively quiet — and pet-friendly — compared to some other bots we tested.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThe Q5 Max+’s dustbin can be removed from the top, without having to turn the robot vac on its back. Michael Murtaugh/NYT WirecutterThe Q5 Max+ lets you save several maps and create no-go zones. It also sends alerts if any of the robot’s parts need to be cleaned or exchanged. RoborockThe Q5 Max+ and its emptying dock are relatively quiet — and pet-friendly — compared to some other bots we tested.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterIt has a long run time — and it cleans quietly. The Q5 Max+’s battery lasts for 240 minutes when used on bare floors in quiet mode. If the Q5 Max+ encounters the resistance of carpets and is run on Turbo or Max mode, its run time will reduce significantly but will still be enough to vacuum a 1,500-square-foot home. While we had to cover our ears and watch our pets bolt when the iRobot Roombas ran or emptied their bins, the Q5 Max+’s emptying dock was comparably quiet.Its self-emptying dock actually works. Unlike that of the iRobot Roomba i4+ and j9+, the Q5 Max+’s self-emptying dock sucked in even heavy and large debris, such as rice and Cheerios, leaving nothing behind in the robot’s bin. The dock holds a 2.5-liter bag for dry debris, and it needs to be exchanged by hand once it’s full.Flaws but not dealbreakers The Roborock Q5 Max+ has only one brush, so it’s less adept at picking up debris close to walls and thresholds. Marki Williams/NYT WirecutterIt misses spots. Like almost all bots we tested, the Roborock Q5 Max+ struggled with debris close to thresholds and baseboards. (Only the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max and the Miele Scout RX3 did markedly better.) In our tests, the Roborock Q5 Max+ spread cat litter and rice alongside a 0.375-inch rug and a 0.25-inch door threshold because its suction wasn’t enough to pick up debris when one wheel was on the rug or threshold and the other wheel was on the bare floor. We noticed that, in some instances, its brush kicked even more debris toward the transition. Similar to most robot vacuums, its effectiveness in removing fine dust from the edges of a room is lacking.Roborock’s customer service appears inconsistent. An alarming number of Amazon reviews report frustration about Roborock’s customer service. When we called their helpline, however, our call was promptly answered. We were put on a five-minute hold while a courteous representative researched our dilemma.It offers an industry-standard one-year warranty, but few replacement parts. While users can replace their Q5 Max+’s washable filters, brush, charging cable, and dustbin, unlike Eufy (and iRobot), Roborock doesn’t offer replacement motors, and while its batteries can be replaced, the company advises to call customer service first.Budget pick: Eufy RoboVac 11S Max
Marki Williams/NYT WirecutterBudget pickAn unassuming but mighty robotEufy RoboVac 11S MaxThis solid, affordable robot vacuum has a large bin and excellent cleaning power. It can be scheduled to clean, but it can’t be controlled with an app.$130 $86 from eBayYou save $44 (34%)$160 from Amazon$160 from WalmartThe simple, affordable Eufy RoboVac 11S Max cleans almost as well as the pricier Roborock Q5 Max+, but it lacks a dock, mapping technology, and other smart features.It cleans well and has a large bin. In our tests, the RoboVac 11S Max effortlessly removed rice, Cheerios, cat litter, and even baking soda sprinkled close to baseboards (a rarity among even the most expensive robot models). The 11S Max has one side brush (the model we originally tested, the 11S, had two). During testing, this vacuum efficiently ferreted out an unholy amount of fur from the carpet and swept the whole batch into its large, 600-milliliter dustbin.In our tests, it performed better close to thresholds and around rugs than any other bot, except for the much pricier Miele Scout RX3.It’s quiet and relatively nimble. The 11S Max is so quiet, you could easily forget that it’s running. It skips over half-inch door thresholds (and, in our tests, it occasionally made it over the 0.75-inch threshold to the bathroom), and it is supposed to avoid stairs and drops. (We had several incidents where the 11S and the 11S Max fell down a flight of stairs, presumably because their drop sensors were dirty.)With its anti-collision sensors, this model stays clear of most obstacles. In fact, we found that it didn’t get tangled up any more often than the Roborock Q5 Max+. (The Q5 Max+’s advantage is that the app sends out an alert if it gets stuck, making it harder to miss such situations. The 11S Max will just keep trying to free itself until it runs out of juice.)In our test home, the 11S Max’s low height of 2.85 inches allowed it to smoothly glide under every piece of furniture. (The Roborock Q5 Max+ is one inch taller, so it may not be able to slip under low sofas or beds.)The Eufy RoboVac 11S Max is an excellent cleaner, and despite its basic bump-navigation system, it was less likely to get tangled than more expensive machines we tested. It also cleaned well along baseboards, performing better than our top pick.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThe 11S Max has one brush, which helps it clean corners, edges, and thresholds. Marki Williams/NYT WirecutterThe 11S Max’s dustbin is generous, making it unlikely that you have to empty it in the middle of a cleaning cycle (unless you share your home with several furry creatures).
Michael Murtaugh/NYT WirecutterThe Eufy RoboVac 11S Max comes with a battery-powered remote control instead of an app, which lets you direct it back to missed spots or schedule cleanings.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThe Eufy RoboVac 11S Max is an excellent cleaner, and despite its basic bump-navigation system, it was less likely to get tangled than more expensive machines we tested. It also cleaned well along baseboards, performing better than our top pick.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterIt has three cleaning modes and a decently long run time. The 11S Max has three cleaning modes: Standard, Maximum, and Boost IQ. The latter automatically switches from standard to maximum mode on carpets. Its battery lasts for 100 minutes, as measured on bare floors in Standard mode. In a home with carpets and rugs, a runtime of 60 minutes is more realistic.It lacks an app but has an old-fashioned remote control. The 11S Max doesn’t connect to Wi-Fi, so it can’t create maps of your home or be controlled via an app. But it does come with a battery-powered remote control that lets you schedule cleaning cycles and direct it to spots it may have missed.It’s durable. Guide author Sabine Heinlein has had her Eufy 11S (the predecessor of the Eufy 11S Max) for almost four years and had to replace its battery only recently. She’s run it several times a week in a very furry household and is continuously impressed with its pickup. Senior editor Grant Clauser and senior staff writer Rachel Cericola have also owned earlier models of the Eufy 11S Max for five-plus years, and their bots are still going strong. “Twice I had to completely open it up to clean out dust and dog hair that was preventing it from running,” Grant said, “but other than that, I just replace the filters and brush once a year.”It’s got an average warranty, good customer service, and lots of replaceable parts. Like our top pick, the 11S Max comes with a one-year warranty. But unlike our top pick, almost all the parts of the 11S Max are replaceable. Eufy sells replacement brushes, brush guards, bumpers, battery packs, charging stations, motors, filters, and more on its website, making the 11S Max a more sustainable choice than other models we tested.Eufy’s customer service generally gets excellent ratings from Amazon reviewers. When we called, we waited for 10 minutes before choosing the callback option. Our call was returned within the hour and our questions were answered.What to look forward toWe’re testing the new Eufy Auto-Empty C10 Robot Vacuum, a slim robot with an included auto-empty dock, and the higher-end Eufy L60 Robot Vacuum, which promises improved suction power, navigation, and dock storage. We're also evaluating the SwitchBot K11+, a pint-size entrant to the robot-vacuum field. We will report our findings soon.The competition
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThis is not a comprehensive list of everything we tested in previous iterations of this guide — only models that we’ve recently tested and are currently available.We tested the Dyson 360 Vis Nav and were less than impressed. It didn’t clean any better than our budget pick, the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max, despite costing four times as much. While it boasts several nifty features, such as a carrying handle and a “side duct” that redirects suction to capture dust and debris close to baseboards and furniture, it has too short a run time and suffers from too many glitches for a robot priced at $1,200.If you were to judge a robot vacuum by its appearance and cleaning performance alone, the Miele Scout RX3 Home Vision would be the clear winner. With the looks of a charming axolotl, the Miele RX3 was the only model that consistently cleaned baking soda close to baseboards and in corners. It is extremely quiet, and while its no-frills app is intuitive, it lacks many of Roborock’s features. Its built-in live camera transmits a grainy image feed to your app, supposedly so you can keep an eye on your home. The bot also gets easily caught even on low thresholds, frequently eliciting a “wheel raised” error code. The RX3 is supposedly compatible with Alexa, but it doesn’t work very well, and Amazon users in Germany, where the “Saugroboter” has been available for over two years, are livid. (We learned, by calling customer service, that Miele doesn’t even provide a list with suitable voice commands.) In our tests, it responded to only two commands — start and stop — despite numerous attempts to get it to vacuum specific rooms. (It did somewhat better with Google Home.) One would expect a $900 vacuum cleaner to be closer to perfection.We tested the Eufy RoboVac 15C Max, but it wasn’t nearly as good a cleaner as the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max.We recently tested the Eufy Robot Vacuum 3-in-1 E20, a robot vacuum that converts into both a handheld and cordless stick vac, and found its performance average across the board.The Shark RV2310AE Matrix is just okay. While it is excellent at scaling thresholds, it tended to kick debris around, and it returned to its dock despite having missed several large areas.The Eureka E10S is almost ridiculously bad. Our review unit talked incessantly and cleaned shamefully, and we encountered a different type of problem with each run. At first it spoke only Russian, even though we had the country set to the United States (weirdly, the language function is hidden somewhere within the mapping feature). Then, after mapping the home, it failed to find its base. Lastly, it obsessed over an obstacle-free 4-square-foot area for 15 minutes straight. A company representative told us that several of these issues have been rectified, though we remain hesitant to recommend this model.The Roborock Saros 10 is one of the better robot vacuum-mop combos to come along, and it represents a step forward in comparison with the previous generation of these machines. With only a bit of monitoring in Roborock’s app, the Saros 10 is an excellent maintenance cleaner, as both a vacuum and a mop. However, like all robot vacuums, it doesn’t handle big messes (solid or liquid) or set-in stains well, it can get tripped up by simple obstacles, and its surface detection isn’t perfect (in our tests, it often started mopping the edges of carpets). The whole package costs $1,600. For that price, and with those flaws, we can’t fully recommend it.Why we don’t currently recommend vacuums from iRobotWe evaluated the iRobot Roomba 694 (now discontinued), the iRobot Roomba i4 EVO (and i4+ EVO, with a self-emptying dock, also now discontinued), and the iRobot Roomba j9+. We also tested two of iRobot’s vacuum-mop hybrids: the iRobot Roomba Combo i5+, and the iRobot Roomba Plus 405 Combo, which is one of the eight new robot vacuums and mop-vacuum combos that Roomba launched in March 2025 as part of a reorganization of its offerings.Each iRobot vacuum presented its own set of challenges and caveats.Roomba 694: Previously one of our budget picks, the 694 was outperformed by our new budget pick, the Eufy RoboVac 11S Max. The Roomba 694 collected only between a third to a half of the debris that the 11S Max managed to pick up, and its dustbin is considerably smaller than that of the 11S Max.Roomba i4/i4+ EVO: The Roomba i4 EVO and i4+ EVO (with a self-emptying dock) were former top picks in this guide. Though iRobot has discontinued the i4 EVO and i4+ EVO, they’re still available on Amazon and at some other retailers.Under the right circumstances, the i4 is a great, relatively inexpensive cleaner. But the first i4 EVO unit we tried in this testing cycle fell short in its app functionality, especially when compared to the less expensive Roborock Q5 Max+, which maps significantly faster and whose app offers more features. Both the i4 EVO and i4+ EVO initially struggled to connect to Wi-Fi, with the app crashing occasionally, and it took them more than three times as long to map than the Roborock Q5. Furthermore, the i4 repeatedly failed to save the map it had created.Company representatives told us that they were not aware this was a common problem. But our analysis of Amazon reviews using FindOurView indicated that up to a third of reviewers complained of mapping issues, including the amount of time it takes to map, unsaved maps, and inaccurate mapping.The i4+ EVO’s self-emptying dock also failed to remove all the debris it had collected in its bin, leaving behind Cheerios and rice.Roomba j9+: The j9+ cleaned well, but like the i4+ EVO, its self-emptying dock didn’t consistently remove all the debris from the bot’s bin. Our contact at iRobot attributed this to the Cheerios in our tests, but we noticed similar issues with other, smaller debris, such as rice. The j9+ also frequently bumped into furniture and pushed over a large cup, one of the obstacles we had put in its path.Roomba Combo i5+: One of iRobot’s newest models, the Combo i5+ comes with two separate, exchangeable bins, one for mopping and one for vacuuming.We faced multiple problems during testing. Initial Wi-Fi connectivity issues were followed by app crashes, and as with the i4 EVO and i4+EVO, the mapping process seemed endless, and its supposedly self-emptying dock consistently failed to fully empty the debris bin.A major issue occurred when the app didn’t automatically offer a mopping mode, which requires the scanning of a separate, easy-to-miss QR code, leading the dock to inadvertently suck dirty water into its vacuum bag. We reached out to customer service, which couldn’t solve and therefore escalated the issue. But resolution was slow and came only after we contacted iRobot’s PR team. (iRobot says it has since resolved the issue, and no separate QR code is needed anymore.) Apparently, we weren’t the only ones with this problem.Complaints about iRobot’s customer service are rampant, reflecting a broader issue with its app and product support.Though eventually operational, the i5+ mopped ineffectively, leaving behind stains that could easily be removed with a regular mop. The bot also repeatedly returned to its dock before it had finished cleaning, and its slanted tray leaked water onto the floor overnight.Roomba Plus 405 Combo: The Plus 405 Combo, which, like the Combo i5+, is a robot vacuum that also mops, is fine. This robot has almost nothing in common with older Roomba bots, for better or for worse, and it’s not even a particularly noteworthy clone of the popular bots that it copies. The Plus 405 Combo’s speedy and accurate navigation is a huge improvement over the classic Roomba’s clunky, easily confused navigation, but that’s table stakes for any decent robot these days. This Roomba’s interface is rough around the edges in a few annoying ways (it has an unclear app setup and unthorough mapping), it’s a below-average vacuum and mop, and it doesn’t appear to be as easily repairable as the models found in the classic Roomba lineup.What about robot vacuum-mop combos?
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterOver the past year or so, dozens of new robot vacuum-mop combos have hit the market. These machines, made by companies like Roborock, iRobot, Ecovacs, and Eufy, claim to be do-it-all wonders that can clean up any mess, wet or dry.We recently tested over a dozen of them, including recently evaluating a $1,900 model that hooks up to your home’s plumbing system. So far, we have failed to find a mop-vac model that we’d wholeheartedly recommend for the price. Many fail to outperform a standalone robot vacuum and a good wet mop.We found that these combos didn’t mop edges well. They also balked at dried-on stains and generally suffered from the same faults as robot vacuums, including having trouble gathering debris close to thresholds and running over obstacles. And despite their ability to raise their mops when encountering carpet, we found that they often wet carpet edges.They also require a fair amount of maintenance, so they’re hardly hands-off: with most, the dirty-water tank has to be cleaned out after each mopping session, the dust bag has to be exchanged at least monthly, and the mop pads still have to be laundered occasionally.And many of the better-performing models come at eye-watering prices. This includes the $1,900 Roborock S8 MaxUltra with Refill & Drainage System, which connects via tubing to a plumbing hookup, allowing the machine to refill the tank, clean the mop pad, and empty dirty water automatically. While we were thoroughly impressed by the S8 MaxUltra, it still struggled with obstacles and entanglements, and failed to remove dried-on stains from flooring — unacceptable flaws for the price.That said, we have hopes for the category, and it’s clear that companies are investing heavily in developing robot vacuum-mop combos. We’re keeping our eyes on new releases, including those from new companies like Matic, which is working on a combo bot with a higher-functioning brain that mimics human perception, according to company co-founder Mehul Nariyawala. Both the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni (left) and the Roborock Q Revo come with a self-emptying base that stores dirty and clean water separately.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterThe Roborock Q Revo comes with rotating mops that lift when the machine senses carpet.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterBoth the Ecovacs Deebot X2 Omni (left) and the Roborock Q Revo come with a self-emptying base that stores dirty and clean water separately.
Sabine Heinlein/NYT WirecutterCare and maintenance Basic maintenance, like replacing the side brush and cleaning the wheel bearings and charging contacts, is a must. Marki Williams/NYT WirecutterBefore you start a cleaning session, you should pick up any laundry, charging cables, or lightweight mats. (Expect a few hiccups during the first handful of sessions until you figure out the pain points.)It’s normal for a robot to not re-dock from time to time. But if that happens consistently, try moving the dock. For bump-and-run bots, it’s a good strategy to keep the dock near the middle of your home (rather than stuffed in the corner in a back room) so that the bot will cross the dock’s path more often. For all bots, be sure to leave a few feet open around and above the dock. If the dock is in a cluttered area or under a piece of furniture, there’s a good chance the bot will not re-dock.In most homes, a bot is likely to stay in good shape if you maintain it properly in the following ways:Shake off the filter every few sessions.Wash (Q5 Max+) or replace (11S Max) the filter every few dozen sessions. You could save some money by using third-party filters, which are unlikely to harm the bot, but you may void your warranty if you happen to send in your bot for repairs with one of them in the filter slot.Cut away any hair wrapped around the brush roll as necessary. Most bots come with a tool that can cut and then brush away the fuzz.Clean the bearings on the brush roll, caster, and side brushes every few weeks (more often if you have pets). You might need a screwdriver for this job, but many bots let you pop out the parts with no tools.Wipe the sensors clean as needed, according to the manufacturer’s guidelines.Keep a can of compressed air handy in case you need to blow dust out of gears or other hard-to-reach nooks in the bot.Replace filters and side brushes a few times per year, the brush roll about once a year, and the battery (if available) as needed.If your bot breaks down outside of the warranty period, you may be able to repair it, particularly if it’s a Eufy model. Don’t chalk up the bot as a total loss until you check to see whether the broken part is available as a replacement.Rachel Cericola and Liam McCabe wrote previous versions of this article, which was first published in 2012. This article was edited by Courtney Schley and Ingrid Skjong.SourcesJohn Ord, lead engineer, Dyson, video interview, April 3, 2024Mehul Nariyawala, Matic, video interview, May 31, 2024Thomas Climer, product manager at Ecovacs, in-person interview, September 21, 2023Warren Fernandez, product leader and category creator at iRobot, video interview, October 17, 2023Meet your guideSabine HeinleinWhat I CoverI was a senior staff writer on Wirecutter’s home appliance team, where I covered all kinds of vacuum cleaners. I also ventured into the wild world of bunny care, vacuum cleaner enthusiasts, and basement flood prevention. Keeping my two-cat, two-rabbit home clean is one of my more acceptable obsessions.Further readingWe Tested 16 Newfangled Robot Vacuum-Mop Combos. Don’t Buy One.by Sabine HeinleinThe current robot vacuum-mop combos are too fickle, flawed, or expensive to recommend. But we expect they’ll get better.Is This 3-in-1 Robot Vacuum the Cleaning Machine of the Future? Not Quite.by Evan DentThe Eufy Robot Vacuum 3-in-1 E20 promises the versatility of three vacuums in one, but you might be better off with separate vacs for your various needs.I Wanted to Love Dyson’s New $1,200 Robot Vacuum. But Our $140 Budget Pick Cleans My Home Better.by Sabine HeinleinThe Dyson 360 Vis Nav seems like a catch, but a variety of issues keep it from being true long-term relationship material.What’s the Best Vacuum for Pet Hair?by Sabine HeinleinWe recommend six vacuums that have the tools, power, and maneuverability to tackle pet fur in your carpets, on your couch, or in your car. AdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTEditWirecutterWirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time). About WirecutterOur teamStaff demographicsJobs at WirecutterHow to pitchContact The New York TimesSend us feedbackNewsletters© 2025 Wirecutter, Inc., A New York Times CompanyPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceCookie PolicyPartnerships & AdvertisingLicensing & ReprintsRSS