Upgraded to iPhone 17? This 25W wireless charger is the first accessory you should buy | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Upgraded to iPhone 17? This 25W wireless charger is the first accessory you should buy
Ugreen's compact MagFlow 2-in-1 charges the iPhone 16 and 17, as well as the Google Pixel 10 at 25W, faster than most other wireless chargers.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 6:29 a.m. PT
Ugreen MagFlow 2-in-1 magnetic wireless charger
ZDNET's key takeaways The Ugreen MagFlow compact charger is on sale now for $45.It can handle Qi2.2 25W wireless charging, and can charge an iPhone, AirPods, and there's a USB-C port that'll work for the Apple Watch.Bedroom users might not appreciate the small LED on the front of the device. $59.99 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The faster, more efficient Qi2.2 25W wireless charging standard is about to hit mainstream thanks to the Google Pixel 10 Pro XL and Apple's iPhone 16 and 17, so consumers are going to be looking to update their old chargers. After all, who doesn't want faster charging?Also: My iPhone 15 Pro Max battery life went from great to awful in less than two years - what happened?There are a few Qi2.2 chargers out there, and the one I'm currently using is the Ugreen MagFlow 2-in-1 magnetic wireless charger. It's a super-compact unit designed for wirelessly charging iPhones and AirPods, perfect as a desktop or nightstand charging station. The MagSafe charging pad can handle up to 25W of output (and push out lower power to older Qi and Qi2-compatible devices). There's also a 5W charging pad for AirPods.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Ugreen MagFlow 2-in-1 magnetic wireless charger The MagFlow 2-in-1 is a compact but powerful charger for devices supporting the Qi2.2 25W wireless charging standard.
details
View at Amazon The MagSafe pad is nice and rubberized and holds the iPhone securely with 7N of force, so your phone won't go crashing down in the middle of the night.There's also a USB-C port on the side that can handle 5W of output, perfect for your Apple Watch charger. If you want something a little tidier than using the charge cable that came with your watch, you can get a charging dongle.
The 5W USB-C port is idea for your Apple Watch or other smart watch.  Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET The unit can handle the full 40W of output when both charging pads and the USB-C port are used, as long as you make sure that the charger it's connected to can output at least 45W of power. Don't have a good 45W charger handy? Here's a good one for under $20.Also: The best GaN chargers you can buyPersonally, I like how the charger folds down to a compact cube. A lot of the charging stations are fixed units, and they can be too big and cumbersome to be used as a travel charger.
The MagFlow 2-in-1 folds down into a compact cube for travel. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET One thing that I'm always wary of before bringing tech into the bedroom is LEDs. There's nothing more annoying than a flashing light from some gadget flashing in the middle of the night. While this unit does have a blue one on the front, it's very subtle, and if you wanted to disable it, a bit of black tape does the job.Also: This one small feature makes this travel charger my favorite for business tripsI should also mention that a 3.3 foot cable is included, so that's one less thing you need to worry about.ZDNET's buying adviceI like the Ugreen MagFlow 2-in-1 charger. It folds down small, expands out to accommodate the iPhone and AirPods, and has a USB-C port to charge the Apple Watch or other smart watch. In terms of how it works, well, it just works. I've had it outputting the full 40W through all the outputs without it getting hot and bothered.Normally priced at $60, Amazon Prime members can pick this up for a discounted price of $45, making it a very affordable way to jump onto the Qi2.2 bandwagon.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
Running on iOS 18? Changing these settings greatly improved my iPhone's battery life
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use