Saatva Classic Mattress Review 2025: Quality Fit for Royalty. CNET Experts Test One of Our Top-Rated Beds - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Saatva Classic Mattress Review 2025: Quality Fit for Royalty. CNET Experts Test One of Our Top-Rated Beds If you're looking for the best mattresses around, then you can't go wrong with the Saatva Classic. It delivers that perfect blend of luxury and support and will leave you feeling well-rested and comfy.
Written by
JD Christison
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Apr 9, 2025
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$2,095 at Saatva
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$2095
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$2,095 at Saatva
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on April 9, 2025 at 5:21 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
JD Christison
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 9.3 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Back sleeper
Combo sleeper
Side sleeper
Stomach sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
9
/10
Policies
8.5
/10
Durability
9.5
/10
Features
10
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Supportive dual-layer innerspring
Neutral and responsive feel
Perfect for heavier sleepers and people who want more support
Multiple firmness options
Cons
A little overkill for petite sleepers
Not ideal for people who want a soft mattress
Table of Contents
Saatva Classic Mattress Review 2025: Quality Fit for Royalty. CNET Experts Test One of Our Top-Rated Beds
First impressions of the Saatva Classic
Saatva Classic mattress firmness and feel
Saatva Classic mattress construction
Saatva Classic mattress performance
Who is the Saatva Classic mattress best for?
Saatva Classic mattress pricing
Trial, shipping and warranty
How does Saatva compare to other mattresses?
The final verdict
Other mattresses from Saatva
The average American adult takes their sleeping schedule and health very seriously. In fact, many US adults would spend up to $78 a month for better sleep without hesitation. Furthermore, a recent CNET survey revealed that 46% of Americans are willing to invest in better mattresses or bedding. If that isn't taking your sleep to the next level, we don't know what is.Let's be honest with one another, though: picking a new mattress is challenging. There are just so many options available on the market and the sheer variety, such as cooling mattresses or memory foam options, can further complicate the decision. After all, which one would best suit you and your circumstances? It's a difficult choice.But if there's one mattress I can recommend, it's the
Saatva Classic. The Saatva Classic mattress sets a high standard for luxury and support with its refined design, featuring stunning golden embroidery and a premium organic cotton cover that provides that classic innerspring feel. The mattress also offers two height profiles, three firmness options and free, complimentary white glove delivery. After six years of use, it's one of my favorites, so much so that I even bought one for my dad. In this review, I'll highlight key points to help you decide if this is the mattress for you.First impressions of the Saatva Classic
Dillon Lopez/CNETUnlike many other online brands, Saatva steps things up when it comes to shipping its beds to you. Instead of arriving at your doorstep in a big box, all the Saatva mattresses show up with complimentary white glove delivery. This means that a local delivery team brings the bed to your home full-size, they set it up for you and they even haul away your old bed at no extra cost. This was one of the main reasons I got this bed for my dad -- they did all the heavy lifting for him.When our Saatva Classic was delivered and set up at our office, we were immediately able to test it out. For a more luxurious bed, it definitely looked the part, and it also felt really premium and nice. I thought it felt very responsive but also neutral compared to a latex hybrid bed. When I hopped on, I noticed that it was a bit firmer than a medium, but I could still rest comfortably on my back, stomach and sides. It was certainly one of the nicest beds I've tried -- to this day.Watch me review the Saatva Classic mattress.Saatva Classic mattress firmness and feelWhat does the Saatva Classic feel like?
Dillon Lopez/CNETGiven how responsive the bed innately feels, we'd classify this mattress as having a traditional innerspring or pillow top feel. Since it has a base unit of innersprings for one of its main support layers, it's super springy and responsive, but the bed's pillow top helps to balance out that responsiveness with plenty of cushion.Simply put, it feels like a comfy bed that you probably grew up sleeping on, which is one of its main advantages. Lots of people are just looking for a straightforward mattress that feels familiar and comfortable, and this is exactly what the Saatva Classic provides. Older folks will probably be accustomed to the bed's traditional feel, but it's still comfortable enough to appeal to younger generations. That's right -- Boomers and Gen-Z finally have some common ground.How firm is the Saatva Classic mattress?
Jon Gomez/CNETThis mattress is available in a few different firmness levels. There's a Plush Soft, Luxury Firm, and a Firm model to consider. We have the Luxury Firm and tested it to be around a medium-firm on our scale. This firmness works fine for all sleeper types, but it ultimately might be best for back and stomach sleepers given its slightly firmer profile. Combination sleepers who prefer a firmer bed should enjoy it as well.Most side sleepers will likely find this version of the bed too firm, so we'd recommend the Plush Soft for this preference. Conversely, if you want an almost board-like level of firmness from your Saatva Classic, the Firm rendition is your best bet -- seriously, that bed is crazy firm.Saatva Classic mattress construction
Dillon Lopez/CNETThis mattress is also available in two height profiles, you've got an 11.5'' and a 14.5'' version to consider. Although the thickness of the layers will be slightly different, the design is the same, as follows:On the bottom, you've got a base unit of innersprings to provide the bed with one of its main support layers. In the middle, they're topped with a lumbar support feature.Then, you've got another layer of coils, but this time, they're individually siloed pocketed coils. These provide the bed with even more support and enhance the bed's motion isolation.Above that, you've got a layer of memory foam that runs along the center third of the bed. This provides the bed with some additional Zoned support.On top, the bed has a three-inch European pillow top for comfort that's wrapped up in an organic cotton cover.Saatva Classic mattress performance
Jon Gomez/CNETMotion isolationBased on our tests, the Saatva Classic deadens an average amount of cross-mattress movement. Its pocketed coils and center third transitional layer of memory foam help to absorb a good amount of motion from side to side. Since innersprings respond as an entire unit, they're not the best at isolating motion, but it's surprisingly not that bad on the Saatva Classic. If you're an especially light sleeper and motion isolation is a top priority when it comes to your next bed, a dense memory foam mattress, like a Tempur-Pedic, may be the way to go.Edge-to-edge supportWhen it comes to edge support, the Saatva Classic performs very well. Its dual-coil construction helps to prop you up along the perimeter, and it doesn't sag excessively at all. The foam-encased border around the innersprings on the bottom definitely helps to strengthen this bed's edges as well. If you or your partner would like to sleep close to the edges of your mattress, the Saatva Classic should provide plenty of sturdiness in this regard.TemperatureWhile the organic cotton cover on the bed is designed to provide the bed with some breathability, we wouldn't consider this to be an active-cooling bed, by any means. That said, it shouldn't excessively warm up on anyone either. It will likely sleep around the temperature neutral sweet spot for most couples out there. Keep in mind that sleeping temperature usually depends on exterior factors, not so much on the bed itself.DurabilityI'd say Saatva Classic is a super durable mattress. Given that it has not just one but two layers of coils, it will last all body types, including much heavier people, for several years to come. The average lifespan of a mattress is usually between 7-10 years, and considering the bed's quality design and construction, I'd say it could easily surpass that.Who is the Saatva Classic mattress best for?
Jon Gomez/CNETEven though this mattress could practically work for just about anyone, it will likely be ideal for a select group of sleepers. Here's who we think will benefit the most from sleeping on the Saatva Classic.Sleeping positionFor the model that we have of the Saatva Classic, the Luxury Firm, we'd mainly recommend it for primary back and stomach sleepers or combination sleepers who prefer a firmer sleeping surface. Again, if you're a side sleeper, you'll probably get more pressure relief from the Plush Soft version or another plush pillow top bed altogether. However, if you like to sleep on your sides but often switch to your back or stomach, it could work nicely for that preference as well.Body typeAs mentioned, the construction of this bed makes it supportive enough to handle all body types, including heavier people. If you're more petite or average-sized, you could also get by on the Saatva Classic, but the level of support could also be overkill for you. In that case, you could save some money by going with an all-foam mattress.Saatva Classic mattress pricing undefined SizeMeasurements (inches)Price Twin 38x75 inches$1,399Twin XL 38x80 inches$1,499Full 54x74 inches$1,999Queen 60x80 inches$2,099King 76x80 inches$2,599Cal king 72x84 inches$2,599
For a more luxurious mattress, I'd say its price point isn't half bad compared to others found online nowadays. Saatva as a brand used to never run discounts on their beds, but now they occasionally will around major holidays -- for reference, this bed might be considerably more affordable around times like Black Friday.Trial, shipping and warrantySaatva backs this bed with some of the most generous policies found within the online mattress space. Its beds ship to you for free with white glove delivery, and once it's in your possession, you get a 365-night trial period to try it at home risk-free. If you happen not to like it within that time frame, you will be charged a small return fee. On the other hand, if you decide to keep it, you're backed by a lifetime warranty. Compared to the average policy set for online beds, Saatva goes above and beyond.How does Saatva compare to other mattresses? Saatva Classic vs. The WinkBedThese are two of our most commonly compared beds. They're both pillow top beds that are very similar in regards to construction, firmness & feel. However, there are some major differences between the two. Firstly, the Saatva Classic comes with a slightly better policy set, offering white glove delivery instead of bed-in-a-box shipping, which is what the WinkBed comes with. The WinkBed mattress also comes in a variety of firmnesses, but it technically has an additional "Plus" version designed to support bigger people. The WinkBed also has a slightly softer pillow top feel compared to the Saatva Classic, and when it comes to price, the WinkBed is the more affordable choice.The WinkBed
$1,799 at WinkBed
Saatva Classic vs. DreamCloud HybridWhile these are both pillow top beds found online, this comparison is easier to make since the beds are so different. The DreamCloud Hybrid is a much more affordable option comparatively, and features more of a responsive memory foam quality. In regards to quality, the Saatva Classic is noticeably nicer and also comes with complimentary white glove delivery as opposed to standard bed-in-a-box shipping. The Saatva Classic is also offered in a variety of firmness levels, whereas the DreamCloud Hybrid is only available in one, on the firmer side.DreamCloud Hybrid
$1,531 at DreamCloud
The final verdictI'd say if you want a supportive hybrid bed with more of a traditional innerspring or pillow top feel, you like the sound of that Zoned-support feature and firmness choice and you don't mind spending up for something really quality and nice, it's worth your consideration.Listen, there's a good reason I bought this bed for my father. I think it's one of the best mattresses you can get online for the money -- not to mention he absolutely loves it. Odds are, you will, too.You might like the Saatva Classic mattress if:You want a supportive hybrid mattressYou want a traditional innerspring or pillow top feelYou like having a firmness choice with your next bedYou want a bed with a Zoned-support featureYou might not like the Saatva Classic mattress if:You're looking for an all-foam mattressYou prefer the feel of a neutral or latex foam mattressYou're on more of a strict budgetOther mattresses from SaatvaAside from the flagship Saatva Classic, there are many other options to choose from within the brand's lineup. In terms of other hybrid or innerspring mattresses, you can check out the Memory Foam Hybrid, the Latex Hybrid, Saatva HD, Saatva RX and even the Saatva Youth for your kids.The brand also offers a double-sided flippable latex foam option called Zenhaven, an adjustable air bed called the Solaire, and even a new, dense memory foam bed called the Contour5. Nowadays, there are plenty of beds within the Saatva lineup, and they're all quite nice.
Saatva Classic mattress FAQs
What is Zoned support?
Zoned support is basically a support system within a mattress to help keep your back in a neutral alignment while you sleep. In this case, it’s found within the memory foam transition layer and above the innersprings in the mattress. It’s subtle, but it will help to keep your back properly aligned at night. This gives you support under your lower back where you need it and pressure relief to the other areas of your body. If you have chronic back pain, it’s a great feature to have in your next bed.
Are Saatva beds worth the price?
There’s no secret, Saatva mattresses are all expensive. However, considering the level of quality that’s actually put into them, I’d say they’re well worth the price tag. Other more luxurious options can cost far more and aren’t worth the hype, but I don’t think that’s the case with Saatva. You’re spending up for a quality product.
Are Saatva mattresses too firm?
Many of the Saatva beds range on the firm end of the spectrum. Some Saatva mattresses do skew a bit softer towards the medium range like the Saatva RX, and even the Plush Soft version of the Saatva Classic. In regards to medium-soft beds from Saatva, they’re sadly few and far between.
Where are Saatva mattresses manufactured?
All Saatva mattresses are assembled in America.
How long does a Saatva Classic mattress last?
The Saatva Classic mattress is designed to last for 10 to 15 years under normal conditions.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.