Technology in the news: Latest news on new technology, social media, artificial intelligence, computers and more - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Entertainment
Crime
Sports
Watch CBS News
Technology
Amazon faces trial over whether it duped people into enrolling in Prime
The FTC alleges Amazon tricked consumers into signing up for a Prime subscription and making it hard to cancel.
4H ago
Meta's AI glasses could mean more independence for the blind community
Members of the blind community have found new ways to use the AI technology to help manage everyday tasks, such as reading the mail.
8H ago
How AI powered robots are helping small farms
From labor shortages to environmental impacts, farmers are looking to AI to help revolutionize the agriculture industry. One California startup, Farm-ng, is tapping into the power of AI and robotics to perform a wide range of tasks, including seeding, weeding and harvesting.
Mar 28, 2024
03:27
AI glasses help visually-impaired people
Visually-impaired people are finding new independence with AI glasses. "CBS Saturday Morning" meets Emeline Lakrout, an active, visually-impaired New Yorker who has found new ways to use AI glasses to her advantage.
Sep 20
04:10
Texas teen uses computer science to fight scammers
Tejasvi Manoj of Plano, Texas, was named Time magazine's "Kid of the Year" for her work helping seniors avoid being victims of financial scams.
Sep 19
Smart home security tips for personal and cyber protection
ZDNet Editor-in-Chief Jason Hiner explains best practices for setup and success of smart home security systems.
Aug 25, 2022
TikTok's fate in the U.S. could hinge on who controls its algorithm
TikTok's algorithm is the "secret sauce" behind the app's success, experts say. U.S.-China talks over the app's ownership must resolve who controls the technology.
3H ago
Nvidia announces $5 billion investment in Intel along with collaboration
The two companies will team up to work on custom data centers as well as PC products.
Sep 18
Uber to pilot food delivery by drone through partnership with Flytrex
The ride-hailing and food delivery company said it would roll out the service in U.S. pilot markets by the end of the year.
Sep 18
Ohio State University launches initiative requiring that students study AI
Beginning this year, all Ohio State University freshmen are required to take a course in generative AI and multiple workshops aimed at real-world applications to help them master the technology.
Sep 17
Graphic Kirk shooting videos spread quickly
Within minutes of a gunman opening fire on Charlie Kirk, videos of the deadly shooting flooded social media. The speed at which they spread and their sheer quantity showed how difficult it is for tech companies to monitor graphic content. Associated Press media writer David Bauder joins "The Daily Report" to discuss.
Sep 17
02:41
OpenAI introduces safety measures for ChatGPT users under 18
The technology company said that users it identifies as under 18 will automatically be directed to an "age-appropriate" version of ChatGPT.
Sep 16
Parents testify to Congress on AI chatbots after their teens died by suicide
The families of teens who died by suicide spoke at a Senate hearing on the harms posed by AI chatbots.
Sep 16
Tesla faces federal safety probe over reports of faulty door handles
Highway safety regulators are investigating reports that malfunctioning door handles on some Tesla Model Y SUVs left passengers trapped.
Sep 16
Companies' impact on U.S.-China TikTok deal
Tech giant Oracle may be part of a proposed TikTok deal between the U.S. and China, sources tell CBS News. President Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping are expected to talk on Friday. CBS News MoneyWatch correspondent Kelly O'Grady has more.
Sep 16
04:15
Show More
As Trump makes autism announcement, Tylenol maker and medical experts push back
The Trump administration announced it believes acetaminophen is linked to autism risk, but the maker of Tylenol and medical experts have strongly pushed back on the claims.
updated 41M ago
"Jimmy Kimmel Live!" will return to air Tuesday, Disney says
"Jimmy Kimmel Live!" had been pre-empted on Wednesday following comments Kimmel made on the show in response to the shooting death of conservative activist Charlie Kirk.
updated 42M ago
Trump to meet with Schumer and Jeffries as government shutdown looms
Democrats have pleaded with Republicans to negotiate before government funding expires at the end of the month.
1H ago
Trump executive order labels antifa a "domestic terrorist organization"
President Trump is following through on his vow to designate antifa as a terrorist group — but the move's legal impact is unclear.
updated 35M ago
Supreme Court lets Trump fire FTC commissioner for now and takes up dispute over removal
President Trump moved to fire Rebecca Kelly Slaughter from her position as a member of the Federal Trade Commission in March.
4H ago
Sarah Ferguson dropped by U.K. charities over reported Epstein email
Newspapers in the U.K. published an email that Prince Andrew's ex-wife Sarah Ferguson reportedly wrote to the late convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.
6H ago
4 soldiers killed in Black Hawk helicopter crash identified by Army
Andrew Cully, Andrew Kraus, Donavon Scott and Jadalyn Good were part an elite team that does nighttime missions.
8H ago
Man accused of trying to assassinate Trump in Florida rests his case without testifying
A man accused of trying to assassinate Donald Trump at his Florida golf course last year has chosen not to testify in his own defense.
4H ago
The night Jeffrey Epstein claimed his cellmate tried to kill him
New internal documents reveal details of an incident that left Jeffrey Epstein injured and on suicide watch days before his death.
13H ago
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue