Your coworkers are sick of your AI workslop | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Your coworkers are sick of your AI workslop
Don't risk your professional reputation on this.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 24, 2025 at 1:00 p.m. PT
skynesher/E+/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeaways Workers are using AI to create low-quality "workslop." Bosses have to pick up hours of slack to fix it, harming careers.AI ROI is still unclear for most workplaces.Workers are becoming overly reliant on AI. The result? Lackluster product, now coined "workslop," according to new research from BetterUp Labs and Stanford Social Media Lab. Also: Stop using AI for these 9 work tasks - here's whyWorkslop -- which the researchers defined as "AI-generated work content that masquerades as good work, but lacks the substance to meaningfully advance a given task" in an accompanying write-up for Harvard Business Review (HBR) -- has some serious impacts. Forty percent of the 1,150 employees BetterUp and Stanford surveyed reported receiving workslop in the past month. It mostly occurs between peers but is also sent to managers by direct reports. Employees taking the easy way out of a work assignment isn't new, but the tools they're using to do so are. AI tools, like ChatGPT, Gemini, and various task-specific agents, are fixing code, creating presentation slides, generating text, and summarizing emails or articles for workers. As workers hand over more tasks to AI assistants and do less of the work themselves, they are turning in poorer results that someone, whether it's a peer or a manager, then has to redo or correct themselves. Who's making workslop? Workslop exists across industries but disproportionately impacts professional services and technology, the researchers found. Also: Nearly everything you've heard about AI and job cuts is wrong - here's why"The insidious effect of workslop is that it shifts the burden of the work downstream, requiring the receiver to interpret, correct, or redo the work. In other words, it transfers the effort from creator to receiver," the researchers wrote in HBR. Workslop signifies more than a simple over-reliance on technology to accomplish tasks. Not only are workers automating their reponsibilities to their detriment, but their AI use results in their coworker or superior needing to clean up the sloppy mess they've created."Workslop uniquely uses machines to offload cognitive work to another human being," the authors wrote. Why it matters Worksloppy employees tend to be viewed more negatively by their peers and managers, according to the research: Half of respondents say they view workers who turn in workslop as less creative, reliable, and capable. Also: The AI complexity paradox: More productivity, more responsibilitiesThe term also highlights a growing contradiction between AI's promises of productivity and the reality it's creating. Some reports show that AI is improving productivity, often in coding, while others depict a more complicated story. Despite chatter from AI startups and tech giants that the technology will supercharge productivity, AI's ROI has yet to be fully realized. Just 5% of companies have seen a return on investment in the technology yet, according to a recent MIT report. In fact, the BetterUp and Stanford survey, which is ongoing, found that workslop added an hour and 56 minutes of work onto the workslop receiver. Also: 10 ChatGPT Codex secrets I only learned after 60 hours of pair programming with it"I had to waste more time following up on the information and checking it with my own research. I then had to waste even more time setting up meetings with other supervisors to address the issue. Then I continued to waste my own time having to redo the work myself," one survey respondent said. Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AI helps strong dev teams and hurts weak ones, according to Google's 2025 DORA report
OpenAI tested GPT-5, Claude, and Gemini on real-world tasks - the results were surprising
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use