Fashion and Home Status Symbols You'll See Everywhere in Fall 2025 - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Retail
The $400 cookware, $2,100 jacket, and other status symbols you'll be seeing everywhere this fall
By
Amanda Krause
Baobab; Bergdorf Goodman; Chloé; Le Creuset; Getty Images; BI
2025-09-20T09:32:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
This fall, people are showing their status with chunky bags, high-neck jackets, and expensive jeans.
Some of the latter pieces are especially reminiscent of styles from the early 2000s.
Luxury cookware and designer candles are also having a moment.
Pumpkin spice lattes aren't the only stars of fall this year.Designer jackets, expensive jeans, and statement candles will also be in the spotlight throughout the 2025 autumn season.
In appearance alone, these items evoke style and taste. And thanks to their high price tags, they also showcase affluence.Here are the luxury items you might want to add to your home and wardrobe as the leaves start to fall.
The sunglasses you'll see every man wearing cost between $800 and $2,000.
An Art Basel attendee wears Jacques Marie Mage sunglasses.
Keith Tsuji/Getty Images
You might think sunglasses are a summer accessory. Generally, that's true.But if you wear Jacques Marie Mage, you know they're not exclusive to one season.The California label is the go-to brand for fashion fans, business people, and celebrities looking to enhance their everyday looks with statement shades.Each pair costs upward of $800 and is said to be made with quality craftsmanship, bold design, and vintage flair.Lyst reported in its 2025 Q2 Index that the designer brand experienced a 34% increase in demand between May and June, and the social-media buzz has only continued to grow since then.
If you need new jeans this year, you might want to consider those from Agolde.
Agolde jeans are some of the most popular denim options out there.
Moritz Scholz/Getty Images
Agolde makes jeans for everyone, but a few groups are especially fond of the designer denim. Successful women swear by them for casual days at work, and influencers have been raving about the brand online for months.Each pair costs between $198 and $298, with dozens of designs and colorways available. Of course, they're not the most expensive jeans on the market — but it's not the price tag that makes them stand out. Instead, it's the quality.Fans say Agolde jeans are flattering, comfortable, and modern. Many have included the brand in their autumn fashion videos on TikTok, recommending its jeans as the ones "you need to be wearing for fall."
The shoe of the season is a mix between ballet flats and sneakers.
The Flavia Ballerina Sneakers from JW Pei.
JW Pei
Gen Z brought ballet flats back in fall 2023. Then, thin sneakers took over last year.What happens when you mix the two together? Ballerina sneakers, or sneakerinas, as some fans call them.The footwear typically has rubber soles like tennis shoes, rounded toes reminiscent of flats, and lace or ribbon that evokes the ballet-core aesthetic.Brands like JW Pei, Asics, Puma, and Ecco have recently embraced the style, releasing shoes that cost between $80 and $130 per pair.But if you really want to stand out in style, you should go the designer route. Hermès' version costs $990, and Miu Miu's suede ballerina sneakers cost $1,020.
There's no fall jacket quite like those from Bode.
A custom Bode jacket.
Mac Bass
If your TikTok is filled with fashion videos, you've likely seen more than a few focused on Bode's Senior Cord jackets. The corduroy pieces have become widely coveted around the world.Each piece is custom-made for customers who have answered thorough surveys about their favorite things, meaningful moments in their lives, and more.No two jackets are alike, making them highly exclusive and deeply personal. At $2,100, they're also pricey, signaling an investment made in fashion.Though people find ways to wear them all year, fall is the ideal time to show them off.
The early 2000s are back in the form of accessories.
Models walk the Chloé Fall/Winter 2025-2026 runway.
Peter White/Getty Images
When Chloé sent models down its Fall/Winter 2025-2026 runway in March, many were seen wearing high-neck jackets and carrying wide purses with flashy hardware.Now, shoppers can't get enough of the styles. The designer brand's Paddington bag, which was first released in 2005, is seeing the biggest resurgence.Some Gen Z shoppers are carrying the $2,750 revamped versions, while others are seeking out the originals, which have skyrocketed in price on resale platforms since the runway show.Equally trendy are Chloé's high-neck jackets, which retail between $2,890 and $5,790. Some styles, including the $5,790 option, have already sold out.
Candles look as good as they smell this year.
A candle and diffuser in the scent Mankono from Baobab Collection.
Baobab Collection
Searches for "fall candles" spiked on September 1, and platforms like TikTok have quickly become inundated with videos about the best scent options for autumn.Everyone has different recommendations, but many of them have one thing in common: stunning presentation.Massive candles in decorative glass jars, like the $122 ones from Anthropologie and the $385 options from Baobab Collection, are becoming home statement pieces.They're classic, chic, and the complete opposite of the novelty candles that took off between 2023 and 2024.
With another season comes another trendy Le Creuset piece.
The Signature Pumpkin Cocotte from Le Creuset in the Flamme Doree colorway.
Le Creuset
Le Creuset cookware is a consistent symbol of wealth in any kitchen.For the fall specifically, though, pumpkin-shaped dishes from the brand's Harvest Line will get you extra attention.Searches for "Le Creuset Pumpkin" soared at the end of August, and social posts that show people unboxing the pots have garnered millions of views in recent weeks.The $425 Signature Pumpkin Cocotte is especially popular. The shade Flamme Doree has already sold out.
Recommended video
Fashion
Style
Home
More
Luxury
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account