css preprocessors Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
css preprocessors
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
7 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article Is it Time to Un-Sass?
css preprocessors
Is it Time to Un-Sass?
Many of the Sass features we've grown to love have made their way into native CSS in some shape or form. So, should we still use Sass? This is how developer Jeff Bridgforth is thinking about it.
Jeff Bridgforth
on
Sep 17, 2025
Direct link to the article Compiling Multiple CSS Files into One
css preprocessors node postcss Sass
Compiling Multiple CSS Files into One
Stu Robson outlines two ways to compile multiple CSS files when you aren't relying on Sass for it.
Geoff Graham
on
Sep 11, 2025
Direct link to the article So, You Want to Give Up CSS Pre- and Post-Processors…
css preprocessors postcss tailwind
So, You Want to Give Up CSS Pre- and Post-Processors…
There was once upon a time when native CSS lacked many essential features, leaving developers to come up with all sorts of ways to make CSS easier to write over the years.
Zell Liew
on
Apr 17, 2025
Direct link to the article Tailwind’s @apply Feature is Better Than it Sounds
css preprocessors framework tailwind
Tailwind’s @apply Feature is Better Than it Sounds
Most of the time, people showcase Tailwind's @apply feature with one of Tailwind's single-property utilities (which changes a single CSS declaration). When showcased this way, @apply doesn't sound promising at all. So obviously, nobody wants to use it. Personally, I think Tailwind's @apply feature is better than described.
Zell Liew
on
Apr 11, 2025
Direct link to the article Styleable
css preprocessors style guides
Styleable
The Wix dev team throws their hat into the CSS preprocessor ring:
Stylable is a CSS preprocessor that enables you to write reusable, highly-performant, styled components. Each component exposes a style API that maps its internal parts so you can …
Chris Coyier
on
Feb 25, 2019
Direct link to the article Loops in CSS Preprocessors
css preprocessors less loops Sass stylus
Loops in CSS Preprocessors
If you’ve ever watched old sci-fi flicks, you know how powerful loops can be. Feed your robot nemesis an infinite loop, and kaboom. Robo dust.
Preprocessor loops will not cause dramatic explosions in space (I hope), but they are …
Miriam Suzanne
on
Apr 10, 2019
Direct link to the article Sass vs. Less
css preprocessors less Sass
Sass vs. Less
“Which CSS preprocessor language should I choose?” is a hot topic lately. I’ve been asked in person several times and an online debate has been popping up every few days it seems. It’s nice that the conversation has largely turned …
Chris Coyier
on
Jan 9, 2020
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top