The Best Air Mattresses of 2025 We Tested - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Best Air Mattresses of 2025, Tested by CNET Experts
Having an air mattress on hand for guests, camping or unexpected illness is always a good idea. These are the best inflatable beds our CNET experts have tested.
Our Experts
Written by
Caroline Igo
Written by
Owen Poole
Written by
David Carnoy
Article updated on July 5, 2025 at 3:35 AM PDT
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan. Expertise Sleep | Mattress Accessories | Vitamins and Supplements | Nutrition | Personal care Credentials Carl R. Greer/Andrew D. Hepburn Award for Best Nonfiction Essay (Miami University, 2020)
See full bio
Owen Poole Senior Video Producer Owen Poole, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been producing sleep video content in the wellness space for over three years. After earning his certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, he has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest. Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, Owen has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. Before he was writing about sleep, he graduated as a Digital Communication Arts major from Oregon State University. The current mattress Owen sleeps on is the Casper Nova Hybrid since it helps keep his spine in a comfortable, neutral position. When Owen isn't reviewing products, he loves to run, cycle and cook healthy food. Pizza is his kryptonite.
See full bio
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
An air mattress can be handy when you need an inflatable bed for camping, don't have an extra bed for a guest or become ill and need to quarantine in a separate room. Unlike a traditional mattress, it can be easily deflated and folded up for storage, making it great for small spaces where having more than one bed isn't possible. Over the years, CNET's sleep experts have tested hundreds of mattresses, and that includes air mattresses. Based on size, price, warranty, weight limit and design, these are the best air mattresses that both you and your guests will enjoy sleeping on all night.
Our Picks
How we sort our mattresses
How it works
To ensure we give you the best search experience, our selection of mattresses can be sorted in 4 different ways:
• Recommended • Highest price: $$$ - $ • Lowest price: $ - $$$ • Branded: Alphabetical
Sort by
Filter by
Firmness
Firmness
Select all
Soft (1-4)
Only
Medium (5-8)
Only
Firm (9-10)
Only
Clear
Sleep style
Sleep style
Select all
Back
Only
Combination
Only
Side
Only
Stomach
Only
Clear
Mattress type
Mattress type
Select all
Hybrid
Only
Memory foam
Only
Air mattress
Only
Clear
Best overall air mattress SoundAsleep Dream Series
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best sturdy air mattress Intex Comfort Plush Dura-Beam
Jump to details
$77 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best budget air mattress Intex Dura-Beam Plus
Jump to details
$58 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best air mattress for glamping Zempire Monstabed Air Bed
Jump to details
$400 at REI
Jump to details
Best camping air mattress Coleman Airbed Cot
Jump to details
$231 at Amazon
Jump to details
MATTRESSES DEALS OF THE WEEK
Big Fig — Labor Day Extension Sale (Use Code FIG15 for Up to 15% off Mattresses):  $1,614 (save $285)
Novilla Euro Top 12-inch Gel Memory Foam Mattress (King Size):  $315 (save $56)
Novilla Gel Top 14-inch Memory Foam Mattress (Queen Size):  $300 (save $41)
Novilla Euro Top 10-inch Hybrid Mattress With Comfy Support (Queen Size):  $159 (save $22)
Serta Tight Top 12-inch Hybrid Medium Sleeptrue Mattress (Full Size):  $408 (save $72) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Air Mattresses of 2025, Tested by CNET Experts
What is the best overall air mattress?
Best air mattresses for 2025
Best overall air mattress
Best sturdy air mattress
Best budget air mattress
Best dual-pump air mattress
Best air mattress for glamping
Best camping air mattress
Best air mattresses compared
Factors to consider when purchasing an air mattress
How we test the best air mattresses
How to find a hole and patch an air mattress
Other air mattresses we tested
What is the best overall air mattress?We know there are an overwhelming number of options online, which is why our experts slept on numerous air beds to find the best. We determined that the best model overall is the SoundAsleep Dream Series. This air mattress is the most durable we tested, thanks to its 40 internal air coils, 19-inch-tall profile and waterproof construction. It comes in various sizes, including twin, twin XL, full, queen, king and California king. While it is one of the most expensive on this list, it should last you a long time -- and if it doesn't, there's a one-year warranty.
The SoundAsleep Dream Series mattress is comfortable, durable and holds air overnight with very minimal deflation.
SoundAsleep/Amazon/CNETWhat We Updated: Updated listicle format and added a product comparison chart in June 2025. Added "best camping air mattress" and "best glamping air mattress" in July 2025.Best air mattresses for 2025
SoundAsleep/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/2
SoundAsleep/Amazon
Best overall air mattress
SoundAsleep Dream Series
Pros
Sturdy with an air coil design
30-day, no-questions-asked return period and a 1-year warranty
Easy to fold up and store -- comes with a nylon drawstring sack
Waterproof
Cons
Off-gassing when first opened
At $150 for a queen, it's not cheap
The SoundAsleep Dream Series Luxury air mattress is immensely popular and highly rated. It's not the cheapest option out there, but it does what air mattresses are meant to do -- and it does it well.Why we chose this air mattress: Priced at $150 for a queen-size, the SoundAsleep air mattress is more expensive than most of the other models we tested in its height range -- but it's worth the investment. This mattress has over 46,500 five-star customer reviews on Amazon, testifying to its durability and comfort. Fakespot, which grades the trustworthiness of Amazon testimonials, gives this bed's reviews an "A."When fully inflated, this quality air mattress stands 19 inches off the ground. It features a "ComfortCoil Technology" design with 40 internal air coils for added durability and support. The bottom is grippy to help prevent it from sliding on a slippery floor. Like many inflatable beds with a built-in pump, it's plenty heavy, weighing about 19 pounds. The pump is rather loud while inflating, but powerful. It took a reasonable 3.5 minutes to fully inflate the mattress and about the same to deflate it.Who should get it: The SoundAsleep Dream Series air mattress is an excellent choice for those who frequently need a temporary sleep solution, such as accommodating guests or camping outdoors. Its thick, puncture-resistant material and waterproof top make it built to last. It comes with a travel bag, making it ideal for those bringing it along for road trips, camping or moving.Who shouldn't: This air mattress can hold up to 500 pounds, less than other mattresses on this list. If you're sharing the air mattress, and you and your partner weigh over 250 pounds each, you'll probably want to consider a more supportive one that can hold up to 600 pounds or more.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
$150 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Pump type
ElectricHeight when inflated
19 inchesWarranty
1-year warranty
Add to compare
Intex/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/3
Intex/Amazon
Best sturdy air mattress
Intex Comfort Plush Dura-Beam
Pros
Sturdy and firm with horizontal air chambers
Tallest air mattress on our list at 22 inches
Little to no off-gassing smell
Great option for couples
Affordable price at $75 for a queen
Cons
Pump isn't as powerful; doesn't inflate as fast as others on the market
Patches may not stick on the velvet material
Not water resistant
Why we chose this air mattress: Intex has struck a compelling balance between price and value with the Comfort Plush Elevated Dura-Beam. Although it's on the cheaper side, the Intex Comfort Plush Dura-Beam air mattress is impressively sturdy and firm, with horizontal air chambers. While it may not be the best overall, it's comfortable enough to sleep on for extended periods. The integrated, plug-in pump isn't as fast to inflate as others, but it's plenty powerful."The Intex Comfort Dura-Beam is easily my favorite air mattress because it’s thick and surprisingly sturdy. I’ve never had it deflate on me in the night. It’s definitely thicker than many other air mattresses, so it’s not a bad idea to snag some deep-pocket sheets," says Taylor Leamey, CNET senior writer.The top and sides of the mattress are coated in a velvety treatment that Intex says makes it more puncture-resistant. That may be true, but it also means that if a leak happens, you'd better hope it's on the bottom panel -- the only place a patch will stick. The off-gassing smell wasn't as strong compared to the others we tested. It comes with a duffel bag for storage and easy transport, though it weighs a decently hefty 22 pounds.Who should get it: This air mattress ranks among the firmest blow-up mattresses that we tested, meaning it's better for those who sleep on their back or stomach. It's also a great affordable option for couples -- the bed is surprisingly stable, so the movements of another person next to you shouldn't be overly bothersome. It has slightly taller edges around the perimeter to help prevent that roll-off sensation if you're lying near the edge. With a weight capacity of 600 pounds and a height of 22 inches, it's suitable for heavier body types.Who shouldn't: Side sleepers may not find the pressure relief needed on this air mattress (though most air mattresses are naturally on the firmer side).  ... Show more
Get it now
$77 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Pump type
ElectricHeight when inflated
22 inchesWarranty
180 days
Add to compare
Intex/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Intex/Amazon
Best budget air mattress
Intex Dura-Beam Plus
Pros
Raised pillow rest
Cozy, velvety surface
Top is more plush than the Comfort series
Affordable price
Lightweight and easy to travel with (12.6 pounds)
Cons
Not as tall as the other air beds on this list at 16.5 inches
It's hard to put the cable back into the compartment next to the plug
No king-size
Why we chose this air mattress: As one of the leading air mattress brands, Intex offers many different models of quality air beds. The Intex Dura-Beam Plus Pillow Rest has a built-in pump, a raised pillow rest at the top and an inflated thickness of 16.5 inches off the ground. It also has a carrying bag with handles. I found this air mattress to be as great as the Comfort Plush and at an even better price of $53 for a queen.Who should get it: I like that the top of the Dura-Beam Plus is more plush than the Comfort Plush (despite the name). This is a good option for side sleepers seeking a bit more cushioning. Its vertical air chambers protrude more on its velvety surface, making it slightly bouncier. With a weight limit of 600 pounds, it's also sturdy and should fit two people comfortablyThis air mattress is the lightest we tested, weighing 12.6 pounds. It's also water resistant. These characteristics make it an excellent option for camping and outdoor adventures.I had a hard time shoving the cord back into its plastic compartment -- but all in all, it's not a bad air mattress for the price.Who shouldn't: If you're looking for a flat sleep surface, go with the Comfort Plush instead. The Plus air mattress isn't as tall, which is something to consider if you want to be higher off the ground. This model is only available in twin and queen, so it's not for those seeking a king-size air mattress.  ... Show more
Get it now
$58 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Pump type
ElectricHeight when inflated
16.5 inchesWarranty
180 days
Add to compare
Serta/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/2
Serta/Amazon
Best dual-pump air mattress
Serta Raised Air Mattress
Pros
Extra pump to keep it inflated
Three firmness levels
2-year warranty; will replace at no cost
Supportive design with coils
Comes with a carrying bag with handles
Cons
Only available in queen and twin sizes
In order for the second pump to work, it has to be plugged in all night
On the expensive side
Why we chose this air mattress: One of the most annoying things about air mattresses is that they sometimes deflate during the night. No one likes to sleep on a slow-sinking, sagging surface. The Serta Raised Air Mattress addresses this problem with its two-pump design. The large pump is used to fill the mattress, and a second pump works (quietly) during the night to keep the air pressure constant. Keep in mind that if you want the second pump to work, the mattress has to be plugged in all night, which is a drawback.While the air mattress's top is not as pillowy as the Dura-Beam Plus, it feels supportive thanks to its addition of coils on the inside. When fully inflated, it stands 18 inches tall and has a weight limit of 500 pounds. It's crafted with waterproof and puncture-resistant materials and comes with a generous two-year warranty.Who should get it: If you want the ability to choose and adjust your firmness level, this is the air mattress to get. On the initial pump, there is a dial you can set to your desired firmness level (plush, medium or firm). This way, the bed will automatically fill to your ideal level and you won't have to guess how much air you need.Who shouldn't: If you're using the air mattress for camping or somewhere without electricity, this may not be the best option, as the "never flat" pump requires being plugged in.  ... Show more
Specs & Configurations
Pump type
ElectricHeight when inflated
18 inchesWarranty
2 years
Add to compare
Zempire
Photo Gallery 1/4
Zempire
Best air mattress for glamping
Zempire Monstabed Air Bed
Pros
Dual-chamber air mattress that may be more comfortable than the bed you sleep on at home
Soft-touch surface on top for added comfort
Good height makes it easy to get in and out of
Packs down smaller than a twin mat and stretcher set up for camping
360-degree valves allow for quick inflation and deflation
Carrying bag with reinforcement straps included
Cons
A little pricey at $250+
No built-in air pump
Packed up, it’s a bit heavy at around 11 lbs compared to slimmer, inflatable camping mats
Would be nice if Zempire’s Monstapump was included (or bundled in at a discount)
Why we chose this air mattress: New Zealand-based Zempire bills its Monstabed as a “luxury” inflatable camping mattress, but it’s one of the best inflatable mattresses, period. While it’s a little pricey, it features an innovative design with two integrated inflatable chambers -- the top is essentially Zempire’s self-inflating Monstamat ($150) while the bottom is a TPU airbed. Depending on how much you inflate each chamber, you can adjust the level of firmness. But we liked how the top mat ends up almost feeling like a layer of memory foam and how firm the bed is overall. In fact, it could be more comfortable than the bed you sleep in at home. Available in a single ($250) or twin size ($400), it packs down quite nicely and is easy to set up, especially if you buy Zempire’s optional Monstapump ($50), which allows for quick inflation and deflation (the mattress does come with an adapter for other air mattress inflators as well as a repair kit).Who should get it: If you’re looking for an air mattress that feels like a real bed, this is the air mattress for you. It’s good for glamping and can also be used as a guest bed at home.Who shouldn't: With the single size weighing a little under 11 pounds packed up (it measures 18.9 x 13.8 x 13.8 inches), this probably isn’t an air mattress you’d want to trek into the wilderness with.  ... Show more
Get it now
$400 at REI
$400 at Zempire
Specs & Configurations
Pump type
Battery, sold separatelyHeight when inflated
16.5 inchesWarranty
2 years
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best camping air mattress
Coleman Airbed Cot
Pros
Queen-sized camping bed, great for couples
Easy to transport by car
Comfortable and supportive
Cons
Expensive at around $270
Sleeps warm (not breathable)
Does not self-inflate
Why we chose this bed: The Coleman Airbed Cot combo is great for anyone who wants to elevate their camping experience, literally and figuratively. The cot features an integrated zippered sheet that contains the air bed, so you can either use it altogether, the air bed alone, or just the cot alone.The cot underneath the airbed provides great support and lifts you off the ground, which is really nice for colder weather camping and makes you feel more like you’re sleeping at home compared to other camping setups I have tried in the past. The cot's design also allows for storage underneath, which makes fitting it into a smaller tent easier. The entire thing also comes in a nice carrying case and packs up relatively small, which is great for transporting it to a campsite. I slept on this air bed plus cot combination for over a week camping and got great sleep on it.Who should get this bed: Someone who loves to camp for extended periods of time and wants a sleep setup more like their bed at home should take a look at the Coleman Airbed Cot combo. Who shouldn't: Backpackers won’t get any use out of this bed. It is far too big and heavy. Also, if you are planning on having a multi-use air bed that you can use at home and for camping, I would look elsewhere because it doesn’t feature a pump that keeps the bed inflated throughout the night. It would be a good idea to double-check the dimensions of your tent to make sure it can fit the Airbed Cot before buying.  ... Show more
Get it now
$231 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Pump type
BatteryHeight when inflated
22 inchesWarranty
1 year
Add to compareBest air mattresses compared
BrandHeightWeight limitCoils?Price (queen)Return periodWarranty SoundAsleep Dream Series 19 inches500 poundsYes$15030 days1 yearIntex Comfort Plush Dura-Beam 22 inches600 poundsNo$7590 days180 daysIntex Dura-Beam Plus 16.5 inches600 poundsNo$5390 days90 days limitedSerta Raised Air Mattress 18 inches500 poundsYes$19030 days2 yearsColeman Airbed Cot
22 inches600 poundsYes $18030 days1 yearZempire Monstabed Air Bed 16.5 inches660 poundsNo$400 (twin)90 days2 years
Factors to consider when purchasing an air mattress
There are a few general things to consider when shopping for the best air mattress.Price Price is the primary criterion for most people searching for the best air mattress. A queen-size bed can cost as little as $30, while the most expensive air mattresses can cost hundreds of dollars. A higher price doesn't always mean a taller air bed, a better air mattress, better air pressure, a self-inflating mattress, a better sleeping surface, more comfort or a decent night's sleep.InflationThe best air mattresses have a built-in electric pump that plugs into a wall socket. Some have a battery-powered external rechargeable pump, which usually runs on four D-cells. A few come with a manual hand or foot pump. The plug-in pumps are usually powerful but heavy and loud. Battery-operated pumps are lighter and don't require a wall socket, but are typically less effective and less capable of fully inflating a mattress. A manual pump or a flat pump, on the other hand, can deliver a degree of firmness that the others can't match and need neither batteries nor an outlet, but will require a significant amount of physical labor to operate.
Here's an example of a manual foot pump for an outdoor air mattress.
PaulaConnelly/Getty ImagesSizeAlthough most queen-size air mattress options measure approximately 60 inches wide and 80 inches long, height is both a variable and a selling point. It may be a primary consideration for older or disabled people who would have trouble getting on or off a bed that's too low to the ground. Likewise, an overly mushy mattress will be harder to dismount.LeakageIf you've ever tried to get a good night's rest on a bad air mattress before, you know that the touchstone for quality is how reliably it holds air. Nearly every air mattress is beset by customer reviews complaining about air leaks. You can tell that this is an industry that's familiar with these complaints: Every bed we tested was imprinted with disclaimers about how all air mattresses stretch when you inflate them and that you shouldn't just assume that they're leaking if they temporarily lose that initial level of firmness.Yet many air mattresses, whether they're stretched out or not, do leak during the night, even if you top them off. This mitigates the credibility of some manufacturers' claims. Some beds are simply more durable and better constructed than others. Airtightness is tricky to judge, even after you inflate an air mattress, and may reveal itself only over time. As such, most manufacturers offer a one-year warranty or guarantee. A few extend that to two years. Others will give you 90 days and throw in a few vinyl patches to cover up a puncture wound. How we test the best air mattresses
We tested the best mattresses the only way you can: by sleeping on them. We've taken the best air mattresses that are highly rated on Amazon and other major retail sites, including Target and Walmart, and put them through a battery of hands-on testing to see which might potentially offer comfortable sleep.This included repeatedly inflating and deflating air beds, evaluating their durability and construction. We subject them to the rigors of camping and a series of acrobatically inclined children's sleepovers to test them for comfort, air pressure and how puncture-resistant the air chamber is -- after all, air leaks are counterproductive to a great night's sleep. We also made sure to assess each air mattress on its price and reviews. We wanted to know if other people experienced punctures or leaks during use.To narrow down the best mattress options, we confined testing for our buyer's guide to queen-size mattress models and included comfort and price comparisons. CNET editors pick the products and services we write about based on editorial merit. When you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Read more on how we test mattresses. How to find a hole and patch an air mattress
Nothing is worse than dragging out your air mattress for a guest, and then the next morning, they wake up on the ground. Puncture holes and leaks are the death of air mattresses -- and they happen all too often. The good news is that you can find and patch holes in most air mattresses. Here's how. Finding a hole in an air mattress:Fully inflate the air mattress, but try not to over-inflate it. Over-inflating an air mattress with a hole in it can make it larger.Take a sponge or rag and apply soapy water across the surface of your air mattress. Make sure you get the seams.Watch for places where bubbles grow, which can indicate a leak.If there is no leak on the surface, move on to the sides and valve and finally, the bottom of the air mattress.When you locate the leak, mark it with a permanent marker.Patching a hole in an air mattress: Just because your air mattress has a hole doesn't mean you have to buy a new one. You can use air mattress patches. If you're looking to go down the DIY route, there are plenty of options. Start by deflating your air mattress and degreasing the area around the hole.Patch method: You can make an air mattress patch from any thin plastic, like a shower curtain or pool liner. Once you have your material, cut out a patch large enough to cover the puncture entirely, with an excess of about one inch on all sides. Then use a generous amount of glue to seal it to the air mattress. Press it tightly with your hand.Super glue: If you have a small hole along the seams, a good amount of super glue may be all you need to patch the hole. It's best to apply it in a couple of layers to ensure it completely covers the puncture.Duct tape: While it's not a long-term solution, duct tape can help you repair an air mattress in a pinch. The adhesive on duct tape generally loses its grip over time. Other air mattresses we tested
Beautyrest Hi-Loft Air Mattress: The Beautyrest Hi-Loft comes equipped with a plug-in electric pump that screws onto the mattress. Once attached, it inflates the mattress in about two minutes, although not as fully as I would've liked. Once it's inflated, you need to quickly unscrew the pump and replace the valve cap. It's not the most elegant solution.The Beautyrest air mattress has the same pack-of-hot-dogs design as the Bestway air bed below and the precarious feel of a pool float. (Many companies that make air mattresses also make inflatable pools and pool accessories. Go figure.) It lacks the stability of other air mattresses, and I nearly tipped it over by lying too far to one side.It may not be the best air mattress for you if you're tall. Simmons lists its dimensions at 80 by 60 by 17 inches, but my measurements put it closer to 76 inches long, which means that anyone taller than six feet will likely hang off the end. The mattress is constructed from a softer type of vinyl than others, making it easier to roll up and fold into a compact shape for storage.Beautyrest Hi-Loft Air Mattress
$66 at Amazon
Bestway Tritech Air Mattress: The epitome of a cheap air mattress, the Bestway air bed is compact, lightweight and relatively quick to inflate with its integrated pump.On the downside, this air mattress is only available in one size, and it's not comfortable at all. It sits low to the ground at 12 inches high, and the pump isn't powerful enough to inflate it fully, so it makes for a squishy ride. The tubular design gives it the look of a pack of hot dogs, and the one raised, horizontal hot dog that's meant to approximate a pillow rest sets the mattress askew, which makes it more unstable.In addition to dozens of very positive reviews, the Bestway Air Bed has plenty of negative reviews on Walmart.com that cite slow air leaks, fast air leaks, burst seams, spontaneous bubbling and terrible customer service. Although Bestway's comically vague manufacturer's warranty doesn't instill confidence, warranty isn't a crucial consideration here, given the price. Still, Walmart's policy states that most products can be returned with their original packaging for a full refund within 90 days.Bestway Tritech Air Mattress
$33 at Walmart
Best air mattresses FAQs
How do I choose the best air mattress?
When shopping for the best mattress, it's essential to carefully examine both product and customer reviews. Seek out insights from real customers and reviewers who have actually slept on the mattress. Their honest feedback can provide crucial information to help you confidently determine the mattress's quality. Make informed choices and invest in a product that truly meets your needs.
Can you sleep on an air mattress every night?
No, you shouldn't sleep on even the best air mattress as your main bed. Air mattresses are a good short-term solution when you need a comfortable place to sleep that's not the ground or a couch, but they aren't meant for regular use. Air mattresses can lack proper support to keep your spinal alignment over the long term and promote back pain. If you're in the market for a new regular mattress and are on a tight budget, check out our list of the best cheap mattresses you can buy online.
Where can I buy an air mattress?
Whether you choose to purchase an air mattress online or in a store ultimately depends on how you prefer to shop. Amazon has some great options, but you can also check your local Walmart or REI.
How can I make an air mattress more comfortable?
Air mattresses are a great option for guests and short-term use, but they will never be as comfortable as a normal bed. Fortunately, there are a couple of tricks you can use to make your air mattress more comfortable.-Put your air mattress on a soft surface, like a carpet or rug.-You can also put it on a box spring so it isn't flat on the ground.-Add a mattress topper or mattress pad. These add a layer of comfort while taking away the rubbery feel of air mattresses.
How long do air mattresses last?
How long your air mattress will last will depend on how much you use it. Regular and consistent use offers more opportunities for punctures or holes to develop in your mattress. Alternatively, if you use it only once a year, you can expect to hang on to it for a long time. You should expect to get at least two to five years out of a regularly used air mattress and up to 10 if you don't use it often.
How do I keep my air mattress from deflating?
There's nothing worse than an air mattress that deflates while you're sleeping on it. You don't want to over-inflate your air mattress, which will put excess strain on the seams. You should also pay close attention to the weight limit of the air mattress. Finally, deflate the air mattress every morning after use.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep
Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan.
Read full bio
Also written by
Owen Poole Senior Video ProducerAlso written by
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.