I compared the best smartwatches from Samsung and Apple - here's how the Watch Series 11 wins | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
I compared the best smartwatches from Samsung and Apple - here's how the Watch Series 11 wins
Is the Apple Watch Series 11 more capable than the Samsung Galaxy Watch 8? After testing both wearables, here's my verdict.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 18, 2025 at 11:00 p.m. PT
Nina Raemont/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple unveiled its Watch Series 11 during this month's iPhone event, alongside two other smartwatch models. The Series 11 gets Sleep Scores (crowd roars), a longer battery life, and all of Apple's WatchOS 26 software, which is expected to be released to the public soon.Also: I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice nowBut how does it compare to its closest Android rival, the Samsung Galaxy Watch 8? I'm comparing two smartwatch icons and their specs. So, who wins? Keep reading to find out. SpecificationsSamsung Galaxy Watch 8Apple Watch Series 11Brightness3,000 nits2,000 nitsWeight40mm: 30g; 44mm: 40g.42mm: 30.3g, 46mm: 37.8 gramsProcessorExynos Core 1000S10 chip with 64‑bit dual-core processorMemory2GB memory, 32GB storage1GB memory, 64GB storageBattery30 hours with always-on enabled24 hours with always-on enabledSizes40mm, 44mm42mm, 46mmColorwaysGraphite, SilverRose Gold, Silver, Jet Black, Space GrayPriceStarting at $350Starting at $399
You should buy the Apple Watch Series 11 if...
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
1. You want to monitor your blood pressureAre you buying a smartwatch for its health features? Apple announced at its September iPhone event that the Apple Watch Series 11 offers hypertension detection and will receive FDA clearance by the end of the month. It can't perform blood pressure readings, but it does monitor your blood vessels' reaction to heartbeats during sleep. It monitors your blood pressure for 30 days using the watch's optical heart sensor to deliver an average rating that is either within range or above the threshold. If the 30-day rating is above the threshold, Apple advises users to take the data collected to a doctor for medical review. Neither Samsung nor Google has developed this feature into their recent lineup of smartwatches, and it addresses a major health condition that is often underdiagnosed.
2. You want a lower profile AI approachApple infuses AI into several aspects of its smartwatch -- but you wouldn't really notice if you weren't paying attention. Thanks to an advanced prediction algorithm, you'll get more relevant Smart Stack suggestions that take your historical location and watch activity into account. If Apple Watch registers users recording a pilates workout every time they visit a studio, the Smart Stack will more regularly suggest initiating a Pilates workout on the Workout app. Thanks to AI, the smartwatch's notification pings become self-aware: The device registers the noise volume of your environment to deliver pings that aren't blaring in quiet spaces or too quiet in noisy ones. Smart Replies get smarter with its on-device language model, which provides "precise" and "relevant" responses to conversations.Also: Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older modelsAI powers those features -- and many more -- but Apple isn't interested in calling attention to it. That's a significantly different approach from Samsung and its Galaxy Watch 8, which drips with AI. More on that later.This low-key AI approach could be a success or Apple's Achilles heel in the long run. If and when AI's hype cycle dies down, Apple will continue making relevant features powered by advanced technology, as per usual. It will be respected for not taking the hype bait and centering its product around a feature that came and went. But if high-power AI features are the way of the future, Apple could be falling behind in the AI rat race.
3. You're an iPhone user, obviouslyIf you have an iPhone, Android smartwatches like the Galaxy Watch 8 aren't compatible with your smartphone. So, obviously, you'll want to grab the Apple Watch to keep everything within the same ecosystem.
Preorder the Apple Watch Series 11 View now at Apple
You should buy the Samsung Galaxy Watch 8 if...
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
1. You want longer battery lifeSamsung takes the battery capacity cake with its Watch 8, which offers 30 hours of battery life with Always-On Display enabled and 40 hours with it disabled. Apple's Series 11 gets a battery upgrade, to be certain. But it upgrades to 24 hours with AOD enabled and 36 hours in battery-saving mode. 2. AI workout assistantsBoth Apple and Samsung rolled out AI workout assistants during their summer product launches. Apple unveiled Workout Buddy, an in-ear assistant that provides stats, encouragement, and historical data during your workout, and is available on eight different workout modes, including Outdoor and Indoor Run, Outdoor and Indoor Walk, Outdoor Cycle, HIIT, and Functional and Traditional Strength Training. Samsung's Running Coach is more specific to, you guessed it, running, but provides more actionable feedback for people training for their first or next race.Also: Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I compared both, and here's the winnerUsers take a running test, and Samsung grades them out of 10. Then it provides a detailed training plan to help them advance to the next training level. Using recovery and exercise data, Samsung tailors its activity recommendations to the user. This feels more personalized than Workout Buddy, and I hope Apple takes notes from Samsung when developing its next health-oriented smartwatch features. 3. You can benefit more from GeminiThe benefit of being an Android watch is that it's powered by Google's Gemini. That means you can call upon the AI assistant to look up restaurants in your area, call and make a reservation for two, and inquire about dietary restrictions -- all with the lift of a wrist. The Galaxy Watch can handle multiple commands with shorter compute times. Apple's AI is more simplistic and a little less advanced.
Buy the Samsung Galaxy Watch 8 View now at Samsung
Alternatives to consider
BEST ALTERNATIVE Pixel Watch 4 If you want an Android smartwatch alternative, the Pixel Watch 4 is a competitive smartwatch with similar specs to the Galaxy Watch 8.
View at Store.google Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older models
I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice now
Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I tried both flagships, and there's a clear winner
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use