53 of the Best TV Shows on Netflix That Will Keep You Entertained - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
53 of the Best TV Shows on Netflix That Will Keep You Entertained
Yes, you should absolutely binge them.
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Liz Kocan
Liz Kocan has spent the last 20 years covering TV, entertainment and working behind the scenes in digital production. While at VH1.com, she won a Webby Award and was nominated for a Shorty Award as a producer. She has also contributed her writing to USA Today, Decider, Vulture, and many other publications, and has seen every episode of 30 Rock more times than her mind grapes can remember.
See full bio
Abrar Al-Heeti
Liz Kocan
Sept. 17, 2025
6:00 a.m. PT 21 min read
Netflix
Opening up the Netflix app can feel daunting if you're not already in the middle of a show or have a movie in mind. We've all done the infinite scroll, spending an hour looking for something before just giving up and tuning into a comfort watch like Scandal or Sex and the City. With so many shows coming and going, some have a shorter life span than others. It helps to know what's worth your time -- and what's about to disappear. So we've put together a list of our favorite shows on Netflix, often highlighting series that just arrived or will be leaving soon.Now that the 2025 Emmy Awards have been handed out, there's no better time to check out some of the big winners from this year. Netflix' biggest winner was the gripping limited series Adolescence, which won eight awards including Outstanding Limited or Anthology series. Animated series Arcane took home the award for Outstanding Animation Program and three more, and favorites like Bridgerton and Love on the Spectrum which also received honors, too.If you're looking for your next favorite series, here's our roundup of some of the best shows you can stream on Netflix. And if you'd rather go with a movie instead, here are our picks for the best movies on Netflix. Read more: Best Streaming Services of 2025See at Netflix
Netflix
Adolescence (2025)
Adolescence, the story of a young boy accused of killing a classmate, has gripped viewers since its release this year. The series earned 13 Emmy nominations this year and won 8, including Outstanding Limited or Anthology series, and acting awards for Owen Cooper, Stephen Graham, Erin Doherty. The series became a phenomenon for its unique filming style: each of its four episodes is shot in a single continuous take, giving the whole show a live-theater feel.
Netflix
Love on the Spectrum (2022- )
If you're looking for the antidote to a stressful day, look no further than Love on the Spectrum. The show, now in its third season, is a docuseries about young adults on the autism spectrum who are looking for love, and it is just about as heartwarming and generally wonderful as you can imagine. Each of the show's three seasons contains either six or seven episodes, making it the perfect binge if you need a rush of dopamine. The newest season also took home the Emmy Award for Outstanding Unstructured Reality Program.
Netflix
Arcane (2021-)
Pulling from League of Legends lore, Arcane stands out as an animated fantasy series about socioeconomic inequalities in Piltover and Zaun. Corruption, violence and more are explored in the show through the characters' journeys. The critically lauded show took home the 2025 Emmy for Outstanding Animated Program.
Bridgerton (2020- )
One of the most aesthetically pleasing shows on this list. Bridgerton is set in Regency-era England as the Bridgerton siblings search for love while navigating high society -- and being the subject of anonymously penned gossip pamphlets. The show's third season earned three Emmys at this year's award show, including one for narrator Julie Andrews who won for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance.
Jan Thijs 514-992-2316, Jan Thijs
Orphan Black (2013-2017)
Originally broadcast on BBC America, Orphan Black is a Canadian sci-fi series about a woman named Sarah Manning (Tatiana Maslany) who witnesses the suicide of a woman who appears to be her exact clone. As Sarah digs into the other woman's past, she learns that they're two of many clones who were part of a secretive experiment, and now the lives of her and her "sisters" are in danger. The show, which lasted for five seasons, is a solid mystery, but Maslany is truly a marvel as she toggles between her multiple roles.
Netflix
Wednesday (2022- )
Jenna Ortega stars in Netflix's Wednesday, a modern take on the life of one of the most morbid teens in pop culture history, Wednesday Addams. The series, executive produced and occasionally directed by Tim Burton, quickly became one of the most popular shows on Netflix when it premiered in 2022. There's no better time to catch up. The new season will be split in two, part 1 premiered on Aug. 6 and part 2 just dropped on Sept. 3. Keep an eye out for great guest stars this season like Lady Gaga, Fred Armisen and Steve Buscemi.
Netflix
A Man on the Inside (2024- )
A Man on the Inside, created by Mike Schur, is essentially a comedy blended with meditations on loss, grief and adult child and parent relationships, all wrapped up in a private investigation over some mysteriously missing jewels. Ted Danson stars as Charles, a lonely widower whose wife died the year before after suffering from Alzheimer's. When his daughter (Mary Elizabeth Ellis) encourages him to find a hobby, he finds a job assisting a private investigator who is looking into a jewel theft at a local nursing home. Charles moves into the facility, hence the "man on the inside" to look into potential suspects, and finds himself getting too close to the suspects he's supposed to be investigating. A second season, co-starring Danson's wife Mary Steenburgen, Max Greenfield and Gary Cole, will arrive on Netflix on Nov. 20.
Netflix
The Great British Baking Show (2010- )
The Great British Baking Show (also known as The Great British Bake-Off) has become synonymous with comfort television and it continues to deliver all the feel-good vibes. Host Alison Hammond, who joined two seasons ago, has proven to be a wonderful addition to the existing cast, which includes co-host Noel Fielding and judges Prue Leith and Paul Hollywood. The competition show sees 12 bakers engaging in a series of three baking challenges each week, and there are seven more seasons that offer the same cozy comfort. The newest season of the show is streaming weekly on Fridays.
Netflix
The Diplomat (2023- )
Political drama The Diplomat, starring Keri Russell as American diplomat Kate Wyler in London, returned this fall with its second pulse-pounding season. The first season premiered in 2023 with eight episodes, while season 2 is shorter at just six -- making it an ideal weekend binge. The show blends international intrigue and political thrills with soapy marital drama, and now's the perfect time to catch up: Season 3 is coming out on Oct. 16, and the series was up for two Emmys this year.
Netflix
The Four Seasons (2025)
The new Netflix original series The Four Seasons turns the 1981 Alan Alda film into a heartfelt cozy dramedy series reimagined by Tina Fey. Fey not only co-stars in the show but co-wrote it with 30 Rock writer Tracey Wigfield and Lang Fisher to offer a modern take on the story of three couples whose friendships are turned upside down when one of the couples announces their separation. The show is filled with great performances, including from Colman Domingo, who earned an Emmy nod for his role.
Netflix
Dept. Q (2025)
In Dept. Q, Matthew Goode stars as DCI Carl Morck, a detective in Edinburgh, Scotland, whose been assigned to a newly formed task force that investigates cold cases. Morck is your typical "doesn't play by the rules" cop who has just returned to the force after an incident where he was seriously wounded and his partner was paralyzed, and he's a loose cannon now more than ever. As the reluctant leader of this new department, he and his team look into a case involving a female prosecutor who mysteriously disappeared, with no real leads to go on. Scott Frank, the co-creator of The Queen's Gambit, is also responsible for this series. The show, which was nominated for an Emmy this year, has also been renewed for a second season, so hopefully we'll finally get to the bottom of who shot Morck.
Netflix
Love, Death + Robots (2019 - )
The adult animation anthology series Love, Death + Robots was developed by filmmaker Tim Miller (who also directed Deadpool) and is co-produced by David Fincher. There are currently 45 episodes which range from 6 to 21 minutes each, and most are helmed by a different director and animation team, giving them all a distinct style and visual approach as they bring to life adaptations of short stories. (Over the show's four seasons, it has consistently won Creative Arts Emmy Awards for its design and artistry, including four awards this year.)
Netflix
Black Mirror (2011- )
Black Mirror is a dark, dystopian imagining of a world overrun by technology and modern "advancements." A series of standalone episodes each depict their own compelling -- and often unsettling -- imagining of the impact of our increasingly digital lives. (The anthology format itself can be a refreshing way to consume television in the age of binge-watching.) It will haunt and entertain you in all the best ways. Season 7 arrived this spring with six new episodes and received nine Emmy nominations.
USA Network
Mr. Robot (2015-2019)
Mr. Robot, which ran on the USA Network from 2015 to 2019, was Rami Malek's breakout role. Malek stars in the dark drama as Elliot Alderson, a cybersecurity whiz who gets recruited by a vigilante hacker known as Mr. Robot (played by Christian Slater) with plans to manipulate data stored by Elliot's employer. Plagued by depression and hallucinations, Elliot struggles to balance his mysterious double life and his sanity as he finds himself deeply involved in the hacktivist group known as "fsociety." All four seasons of the show just dropped on Netflix this month, and they'll definitely keep you up all night.
Netflix
Ozark (2017-2022)
At this point, Ozark might be most remembered as the vehicle that made Julia Garner a star. The actress won three Emmys for her role as criminal Ruth Langmore, who faced off against Marty and Wendy Byrde (Jason Bateman and Laura Linney), a Chicago couple who relocate to the Ozarks and find themselves laundering money for a Mexican drug cartel. The crime drama ran for four seasons between 2017 and 2022, loading up on awards and critical acclaim in the process.
IFC
Portlandia (2011-2018)
Portlandia, the great sketch series written by and starring Carrie Brownstein and Fred Armisen, ran for eight seasons on IFC, and now you can watch every episode on Netflix. The show, which hilariously and lovingly poked fun at the city of Portland and all the various people you might find there, just arrived on Netflix this week. Keep an eye out for the dozens of celebrity cameos throughout the series, too. SNL alums like Kristen Wiig and Jason Sudeikis show up, but so do the Portland Trailblazers, Eddie Vedder and the rest of Sleater-Kinney, too.
Netflix
I Think You Should Leave With Tim Robinson (2019-2023)
Tim Robinson is having a moment now that his first feature film, Friendship, debuted this year, and if you loved that movie, you definitely need to catch up on his absurdist sketch comedy show I Think You Should Leave With Tim Robinson. The often cringey comedy might not be for everyone but for a certain subset of comedy fans it's a gem. The show features a who's who of notable talent -- stars from Saturday Night Live including Fred Armisen, Vanessa Bayer and Will Forte appear, along with Ayo Edebiri, Fred Willard, Sam Richardson and more. The premises are usually bonkers, often humiliating situations and Robinson has perfected his awkward persona in each of them. If you're a fan of Robinson's humor, definitely try the other Netflix series he stars in alongside Richardson, Detroiters, after you've finished this one.
Netflix
Squid Game (2021- )
This thriller was all anyone talked about when it debuted and for good reason. Hundreds of people in desperate need of cash compete in a series of games that become a fight for survival. If you can handle the grotesque and gory themes throughout this show, it's an enthralling watch. The third and final season arrived on June 27 so now is a great time to watch the complete series.
Netflix
Ginny & Georgia (2021- )
Ginny & Georgia is ... well, either a darkly funny drama or a dramatic comedy -- with a dash of murder. However you look at it, it's addictive, soapy fun. The show stars Antonia Gentry and Brianne Howey as the titular mother-daughter duo who, along with Ginny's brother Austin (Diesel La Torraca) relocate to a quaint New England town after Georgia's wealthy husband dies. Despite some of the on-paper similarities, this show is no Gilmore Girls, as we learn that Georgia's running from a past filled with abuse, trauma and murder.
Getty Images
Sex and the City (1998-2004)
If you're craving some late '90s nostalgia, you can find all six seasons of Sex and the City on Netflix. The series follows sex columnist Carrie Bradshaw (Sarah Jessica Parker) and her friends in New York City. It was a cultural touchstone for a minute, so whether you've never watched or want to be reminded of a different era when Louboutins became a whole thing and everyone still smoked in bars, you won't want to miss the original show that begat the (less satisfying) reboot, And Just Like That.
Netflix
Stranger Things (2016- )
Stranger Things is an enthralling medley of horror, drama and nostalgia. Set in the 1980s in fictional small-town Indiana, residents begin experiencing a series of odd events, including the disappearance of a young boy, and begin to search for answers. After months (actually, years) of speculation, Netflix finally confirmed that the final season of the show will be back this fall with four episodes on Nov. 26, three episodes
on Christmas Day and the final episode on New Year's Eve. The holidays are about to get turned upside down.
Netflix
Lupin (2021- )
French mystery-thriller Lupin first premiered in 2021 and stars Omar Sy as
Assane Diop, a robber inspired by fictional
gentleman thief Arsene Lupin. Diop seeks revenge for his father's death by targeting the family he holds responsible. The acclaimed series has already released three batches of episodes, and part four is currently in production in Paris.
Netflix
Mo (2022- )
Comedian Mo Amer is the namesake of the Netflix original series Mo, which has run for two seasons (so far) on the streamer. The Peabody-winning series follows Mo Najjar (played by Amer), a Palestinian-American living in Houston, Texas, on his quest for citizenship in the United States. The show is co-created and co-written by fellow comedian Ramy Youssef.
Matt Klitscher/Netflix
Sweet Tooth (2021-2024)
Sweet Tooth is a fantasy series based on a comic book of the same name set in a dystopian world where much of the world's population has died off, and babies are born as animal-human hybrids. The story, which is geared toward a more youthful teen audience, follows Gus (Christian Convery), half boy-half deer, who is joined by a man named Tommy as they travel in search of Gus' father (played by Will Forte). Despite the show's post-apocalyptic setting, it's less foreboding than many dystopian shows, with moments of lightness that keep it from getting too heavy.
FOX
Brooklyn Nine-Nine (2013-2021)
Even though Andy Samberg was the face of Brooklyn Nine-Nine, which first aired on Fox and then NBC, the police sitcom is truly an ensemble filled with incredible comedic performances. (The late, great Andre Braugher, who was best known for his dramatic roles, was especially brilliant as the 99's Captain Ray Holt.) Currently, you can catch seasons 3 to 6 on Netflix.
Netflix
The Residence (2025)
Get caught up in Shonda Rhimes' new original, The Residence, a mystery series set in the White House. When a staff member is murdered on the grounds, the list of suspects includes more than 150 people, and there's seemingly only one person who's fit to investigate -- and solve -- the crime. Enter Uzo Aduba's Cordelia Cupp, a quirky detective with the skills to peer into the murkiest clues, examine the 100-plus mansion rooms, and question the plethora of oddball employees. Although the show was canceled after just one season, Aduba received an Emmy nomination for her role.
Nicole Rivelli/ViacomCBS
Younger (2015-2021)
Younger was critically acclaimed but flew under the radar when it first aired on TV Land but it's gotten a major bump in popularity since it recently arrived on Netflix. The show stars Sutton Foster as 40-year-old Liza Miller, who relocates to Brooklyn from New Jersey to start over after her husband leaves her and her daughter heads to college. When she has no luck landing a job in publishing by being honest about her age and the fact that she took time off to raise a child, she pretends she's 26 and gets a job right away. Though the lie helps her land a job and a new boyfriend, she's often conflicted. As the seasons pass, she slowly has to let the people in her life know the truth. Despite the sometimes goofy premise, the show -- created by Sex and the City and Emily in Paris creator Darren Star -- is hilarious, silly and often raunchy in the best way. Hilary Duff, Debi Mazar, Nico Tortorella and Peter Hermann co-star.
Netflix
You (2018-2025)
Gossip Girl star Penn Badgley stars in Netflix's You, which just released its fifth and final season. Based on the books by Caroline Kepnes, You stars Badgley as Joe Goldberg, a charming but dangerous psychopath who becomes obsessed with the women in his life. Each season, Joe adopts a new alias and identity, eventually setting his sights on someone new to stalk. The show has featured great actors throughout its run, notably Jenna Ortega, Lukas Gage and Severance's Zach Cherry.
Netflix
Russian Doll (2019-2022)
For two seasons, Natasha Lyonne starred in Russian Doll, a New York-set fantasy about a woman who's caught in a time loop and experiences her own death every night, only to wake up very much alive the next day. Lyonne played Nadia, a video game developer who attempts to figure out why this keeps happening to her, when she eventually meets a man named Alan (Charlie Barnett) who's experiencing the same thing. A little bit of a mystery blended with comedy and sci-fi, the show was co-created by Lyonne, SNL's Amy Poehler and writer Leslye Headland and features memorable performances from Greta Lee and Chloe Sevigny.
Netflix
Hellbound (2021-2024)
South Korean horror-fantasy Hellbound was written and directed by Yeon Sang-ho with Choi Gyu-seok and is based on their short of the same name. The series takes place in a dark, futuristic version of South Korea where spiritual beings materialize to condemn people to certain death at some point in the future, and eventually the condemned are dragged off to hell. The episodes shift in tone, with some coming off more like a police procedural and others offering social commentary on religion, the media and sin, often blending genres into a spooky, smart thriller full of plot twists. The show's creators are also responsible for writing and directing the Netflix original film Revelations, which was released in March 2025.
Netflix
Cunk on Earth (2023)
Cunk on Earth is peak absurdist comedy, and it's undeniably hilarious watching Diane Morgan play the oblivious and under-informed reporter Philomena Cunk. Cunk travels the globe interviewing people who are experts in the fields of history, theology and more. But this isn't a show that truly wants to teach so much as dare you not to laugh when Cunk deadpans her way through serious conversations with her inane commentary.
Netflix
The Recruit (2022- )
The second season of Netflix's The Recruit has just arrived, making now the perfect time to binge this political thriller starring Noah Centineo as CIA lawyer Owen Hendricks. When the show began, Hendricks found himself negotiating with a former CIA asset who was attempting to extort the agency. In season two, the drama heads to Seoul when Hendricks finds himself working on a mission with Korean intelligence.
Netflix
Midnight Mass (2021)
Midnight Mass hails from the mind of horror auteur Mike Flanagan, but it owes a debt to Stephen King. The gory tale, which takes place in a tiny, coastal New England town, seems like it shares plenty of DNA with King's work, despite the author having no involvement. In the series, Hamish Linklater plays Father Paul Hill, a young priest who has recently arrived at the fishing village of Crockett Island. Soon after his arrival, animals disappear and supernatural occurrences flare up, and the townspeople start to act like religious zealots in response, save for one local, Riley Finn (Zach Guilford), who starts to wonder whether the priest is causing this new, supernatural behavior.
Netflix
Heartstopper (2022-2024)
Kit Connor and Joe Locke star in Heartstopper, a Netflix original coming-of-age drama, as high school students navigating their sexuality and social norms. In the show's first season, Charlie (Locke) comes out of the closet and realizes his feelings for his friend, the rugged and athletic Nick (Connor). Eventually Nick also starts to embrace his own bisexuality. Throughout the show, the two, along with the rest of their friends, explore this ever-changing era in their lives. The beloved show includes some notable guest appearances from Olivia Colman, Jonathan Bailey and Hayley Atwell.
Netflix
Dead to Me (2019-2022)
Dead to Me packs laughter, tears, grief and mystery into every one of its perfectly balanced 30 minute episodes, and the worst thing about the show is that we only got three seasons of it.  The show's first season begins as Christina Applegate's character, the recently widowed Jen, is befriended by a woman named Judy (Linda Cardellini) at a grief support group, not realizing that Judy is responsible for Jen's husband's death. The relationship between the two women evolves over time, especially after Jen finds out the truth about Judy, but eventually the women's love-hate relationship becomes more love than hate and they come to depend on each other more than they ever expected.
Netflix
The Night Agent (2023- )
Gabriel Basso stars in The Night Agent, based on the novel of the same name written by Matthew Quirk. In the show's first season, FBI agent Peter Sutherland (Basso) works at the White House in the top secret Night Agent program, where he gets pulled into a dangerous conspiracy when he learns a mole might be lurking within the government.
Matthew Towers/Netflix
One Day (2024)
One Day, based on the 2009 book by David Nicholls, stars Leo Woodall and Ambika Mod as college students whose unlikely friendship, which first developed on their last night of university, develops into something more over the span of a decade. The show's wistful, heart-aching tone is matched only by its heartbreaking finale.
Netflix
Envious (2024- )
Envious (Envidiosa) is an Argentinian comedy starring Griselda Siciliani as Vicky, a 40-year-old woman who is depressed and jealous that all of her friends are getting married and she's not. After abruptly breaking up with her long-term boyfriend Dani, things for Vicky fall apart even more when Dani immediately marries a hot, younger woman. An under-the-radar gem, Envious is buoyed by Siciliani's terrific comedic presence.
Lara Solanki/Netflix
The Lincoln Lawyer (2022- )
Legal shows can also be comfort shows, and you may find that to be true with The Lincoln Lawyer. Adapted from Michael Connelly's novels, the series features Manuel Garcia-Rulfo as Mickey Haller, a lawyer who uses clever ways to defend his clients (or get around defending them). Riding around in a Lincoln only contributes to his charm, but this series isn't a lighthearted comedy. You get crime, action, mystery, humor and loads of drama.
Netflix
Is She the Wolf? (2023)
Netflix has become a reliable platform for dating shows with a twist, like Love Is Blind, the one where you have to get engaged immediately, or Too Hot to Handle, the one where everyone has to be celibate. On the Japanese series Is She the Wolf? the big twist is more along the lines of The Traitors or The Mole: Planted among all of the legitimate contestants searching for love is a decoy. In the first episode, you learn that one woman brought on the show is not allowed to fall in love, and if someone does fall for her, it's game over. It's an emotional roller coaster as the wolf tries not to actually fall in love herself, while trying to keep her identity and motives under wraps. And just to add to the fun, the challenges each couple has to participate in are unlike anything else we're used to, with many of them requiring the contestants to use an old film camera to capture scenic shots of Japanese landmarks (it's hard to explain but it works, trust me). The show's 12 episodes are all out now.
Ed Miller/Netflix
Baby Reindeer (2024)
Inspired by real events from writer-actor Richard Gadd's own life, Baby Reindeer follows Donny Dunn, an aspiring comedian whose day job is bartending. The bar is where he extends kindness to a stranger named Martha played by Jessica Gunning, setting off a months-long chain ordeal of stalking. Donny's experience being stalked triggers a wave of unaddressed trauma, making for an interesting story. The seven-episode series won a string of Emmy awards along with the Golden Globes for best limited series and best supporting actress for Gunning.
Photo: Netflix
GIrls5Eva (2021-2024)
Though Girls5Eva only lasted three seasons, it remains a source of incredible comedy thanks to its wild performances and hilarious songs. (New York Lonely Boy and I'm Afraid (Dawn's Song of Fears) hit especially close to home.) The show was originally a Peacock original, but was picked up (and canceled just as quickly) by Netflix. Created by Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt writer Meredith Scardino, the show is about a reunited '90s girl group played by Sara Bareilles, who proved that her comedic timing was as good as her musical talent, Busy Philipps, Paula Pell and Renee Elise Goldsberry, whose truly unhinged performance as self-obsessed has-been Wickie Roy is one of the great comedic performances of late.
Netflix
Ripley (2024)
Praised by CNET's Aaron Pruner as a "brilliant new take on the anti-hero story," Netflix's Ripley is the latest book-to-screen adaptation of Patricia Highsmith's novel character. Andrew Scott plays the cunning Tom Ripley, a stylish con man who uses morally sketchy methods to get what he wants -- even murder.  Filmed in stark black and white, the series won four Emmys including those for cinematography and visual effects, as well as directing for Steven Zallian.
Netflix
Black Doves (2024)
When the spy thriller Black Doves arrived to Netflix last year, it quickly shot into the Netflix Top 10 and was quickly renewed for a second season. The addictive series stars Keira Knightly -- who received a Golden Globe nomination for the role -- as a spy named Helen Webb married to a politician in the British government who has no idea about her true identity. Ben Whishaw plays Helen's friend and associate Sam, an assassin battling his own sense of morality, in this action-packed (and very bloody) series filled with espionage and some very dark humor.
Keith Bernstein/Netflix
The Crown (2016-2023)
A compelling, artful retelling of the reign of Queen Elizabeth II. The Crown touches on many themes beyond the monarchy, including politics, family and the tumult of royal marriages -- namely that of Charles and Diana. Beyond the spectacular casting across all six seasons, the show is supported by strong writing and gripping storylines that stir emotion in viewers, regardless of how they actually feel about the British monarchy.
Sam Tayor/Netflix
Sex Education (2019-2023)
Sex Education is a coming-of-age British comedy that gave Gillian Anderson one of her best roles, a divorced sex therapist raising a teen son Otis (Asa Butterfield). It also served as a breeding ground for incredible young talent, including Emma Mackey, Aimee Lou Wood, Connor Swindells and Ncuti Gatwa, who is the newest Doctor Who. Taking place at a high school filled with sexually curious teens, the show began with Otis doling out sex advice to his classmates after absorbing information from his mother's profession, but it evolved into one of the most heartfelt teen romantic dramedies of the last few years.
Frank Ockenfels/AMC
Breaking Bad (2008-2013)
Lauded as one of the best television shows of all time, Breaking Bad has all the merits of a standout series: a suspenseful storyline, dynamic characters and shocking plot twists -- many of which are not for the faint of heart. It follows high school chemistry teacher Walter White, who turns to cooking meth when he's diagnosed with cancer and worries about providing for his family. But his knack for producing the illegal substance leads him down roads he never imagined.
Netflix
Blue Eye Samurai (2023- )
Animated series Blue Eye Samurai unfolds with Mizu, a mixed-race female warrior who is seeking revenge against four men -- one of whom is her father. Set during the Edo period in Japan, the show features Maya Erskine as Mizu with Stephanie Hsu, Ming-Na Wen, George Takei, Masi Oka, Brenda Song, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa and Mark Dacascos among the cast. Season 1 of the Emmy winner is streaming now.
Netflix
Peaky Blinders (2013-2022)
Peaky Blinders tells the story of an English gang run by Thomas Shelby (Cillian Murphy) and his family after World War I. The gang controls the city of Birmingham, but Shelby begins to set his sights beyond the streets as he aims to move up in the world. What sells this show is not only its compelling storyline, but also its stellar casting. For fans of period dramas -- and crime shows -- Peaky Blinders is a must-watch. A word of caution, though: This gritty series is not for the squeamish.
USA Network
Suits (2011-2019)
This comedy-drama follows Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams), a college dropout with no legal background who somehow lands a job at a prestigious New York law firm working for top attorney Harvey Specter (Gabriel Macht). They become a powerful team but have to keep Mike's lack of legal credentials under wraps. A testament to Suits' brilliance is that it became the most-watched acquired series when it hit Netflix in 2023. (The star power of Meghan Markle, who plays paralegal Rachel Zane in the show, was likely also a factor.) All seasons are now streaming on the platform.
Netflix
Asura (2025)
Netflix's new Japanese drama Asura has a seemingly straightforward premise: in 1979, four sisters discover that their aging father has had an affair and fathered a boy outside of his marriage to their mother. That's the starting point, but over the course of the show's seven episodes, the show layers this family drama with humor and warmth. As the sisters grapple with how to confront their father (and withhold the information from their mother), their own lives change course and new secrets emerge. Despite the sisters' drastically different personalities, they maintain their own bond that's loving and occasionally contentious, but always remains honest and real.
Netflix
Beef (2023- )
A road rage incident between Danny Cho (Steven Yeun) and Amy Lau (Ali Wong) turns into a drawn-out feud, setting the stage for an enthralling comedic drama made all the better by stellar casting. Beef stole the show at the 75th Primetime Emmy Awards, nabbing eight wins, and won all three categories it was nominated for at the 81st Golden Globe Awards. The show will become an anthology series; a second season starring Oscar Isaac, Carey Mulligan, Charles Melton and Cailee Spaeny was recently announced.
Netflix
Griselda (2024)
Griselda Blanco Restrepo was a ruthless Colombian drug lord who was
instrumental in setting up narcotics trade networks to New York and
Miami in the 1970s and '80s. Her violent, tragedy-filled life is the
basis for this six-part Netflix original series, which debuted in
January 2024. Modern Family star Sofia Vergara plays Blanco, who took
her "Godmother" nickname so seriously that she actually named one of
her children Michael Corleone Blanco. Helmed by Colombian director
Andrés Baiz and produced by the team behind Narcos, it's a classic
rise-and-fall crime drama. Vergara's performance won plenty of
critical praise and earned her an Emmy nomination.
Netflix
Derry Girls (2018-2022)
Before it landed at Netflix, Derry Girls aired on Channel 4 in the UK and was the most-watched show ever in Northern Ireland. Set in the 1990s during the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the series was inspired by creator Lisa McGee's experiences growing up. The show centers around five teens attending Catholic school amid the political turmoil of the time, set to a soundtrack of perfectly selected mid-1990s needle drops from the likes of The Cranberries, Salt-N-Pepa and Take That. It also made celebrities of its young stars including Saoirse-Monica Jackson and Nicola Coughlan, who stars in another show on our list, Bridgerton.
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.