Roku's first TV projector gives you a 150-inch screen - for less than $200 | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
Projectors
Roku's first TV projector gives you a 150-inch screen - for less than $200
The Roku TV Smart Projector D1R Cube offers 1080p HD, 330 ANSI lumens, and dual 5W speakers, plus support for other Roku speakers.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 16, 2025 at 6:00 a.m. PT
RokuFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways The first Roku TV projector is now available for purchase.Made by Aurzen, the Cube works indoors or outdoors for movie nights.The D1R Cube has 1080p HD and a 40-150 inch projection sizeRoku just announced its first projector, the Aurzen Roku TV Smart Projector D1R Cube, which is now available for purchase. Also: Your Roku has hidden settings and menu screens - here's how to unlock themThe projector is priced affordably, at just under $200, and features a portable cube design that makes it easy to set up in a living room or carry outside for a backyard movie night.FeaturesSome of the projector's top features include its 40-150-inch projection size, auto focus, auto keystone, 330 ANSI lumens, and an integrated Roku platform.Also: Slow Roku TV? This 30-second routine will keep your device running like new"Whether you're camping, grilling, or setting up a home theater, projectors have always promised a big-screen experience, but they often lacked the simplicity and smart connectivity that today's viewers expect," said Tom McFarland, vice president of Roku TV. "The Aurzen Roku TV Smart Projector changes that -- combining Roku's award-winning OS with effortless setup and access to thousands of movies, TV shows, and live channels."
RokuFor audio, the Aurzen Roku TV Smart Projector D1R Cube has dual 5W speakers, though it is also compatible with Roku wireless speakers, soundbars, and subwoofers. Users can also employ the Bluetooth headphone mode in the Roku mobile app to hear the audio directly in their earbuds or headphones. Also: Changing these 6 settings on my Roku TV significantly improved the performanceThe projector also has a 3.5 mm audio out, supports 2.4GHz and 5GHz, and has an HDMI and USB port. Rokus OSThe Roku operating system is objectively one of the best streaming device platforms available, thanks to its user-friendly interface. Roku OS is easy to use and get used to, and supports Apple AirPlay, making it a good option for iPhone users in particular. Just like other Roku products, the Aurzen Roku TV Smart Projector D1R Cube features access to hundreds of streaming services, including Roku Originals and over 500 live TV channels. Also: Is your Roku TV spying on you? It's possible, but here's how to put a stop to itAs a simple projector, the Roku TV Smart Projector D1R Cube makes for a decent entry-level option for casual watch parties, especially at its affordable price. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
You can buy Hisense's 136-inch Micro LED TV for $20,000 off right now - how the deal works
Slow Roku TV? This 30-second routine will keep your device running like new
This smartphone telescope brought tears to my eyes with stunning photos - how it works
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use