Best Cooling Comforters of 2025, Approved by a Sleep Expert Who Uses Them - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Bed Accessories
Best Cooling Comforters for Staying Cool and Dry in 2025
As CNET’s sleep editor living through a heat wave, I tested 12 comforters to find the best for staying cool this summer. Here are the top brands to try.
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan. Expertise Sleep | Mattress Accessories | Vitamins and Supplements | Nutrition | Personal care Credentials Carl R. Greer/Andrew D. Hepburn Award for Best Nonfiction Essay (Miami University, 2020)
See full bio
Caroline Igo
June 25, 2025
8:02 a.m. PT 10 min read
Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter Best overall cooling comforter
$229 at Rest Duvet
Slumber Cloud UltraCool Comforter Softest cooling comforter
$335 at Slumber Cloud
Silk and Snow Down Alternative Comforter Best affordable cooling comforter
$110 at Silk and Snow
Brooklinen Down Comforter Best lightweight cooling comforter
$299 at Brooklinen
Sijo AiryWeight Eucalyptus Comforter Best temperature-regulating cooling comforter
$235 at Sijo Home
Cozy Earth Bamboo Comforter Best bamboo cooling comforter
$608 at Cozy Earth
Birch Natural Down Duvet Insert Best down cooling comforter
$399 at Birch
Layla Down Alternative Comforter Best down alternative cooling comforter
$229 at Layla
Cozy Earth Silk Comforter Best silk cooling comforter
$936 at Cozy Earth
Show more (4 items)
Table of Contents
Best Cooling Comforters for Staying Cool and Dry in 2025
What is the best overall cooling comforter?
Best cooling comforters of 2025
Other cooling comforters tested
Best cooling comforters compared
How I tested the best cooling comforters
What to consider when choosing a cooling comforter
Your body temperature significantly impacts your sleep quality. Cooling bedding such as pillows, sheets, comforters and mattresses can help if you toss and turn at night because it's too hot. Unlike traditional bedding that can trap heat and moisture, cooling comforters are lightweight and breathable, helping to beat that summer heat. As a certified sleep coach, I've tested mattresses, bedding and sleep products for years. After personally testing a dozen cooling comforters, here are the best options for hot sleepers, along with a couple of honorable mentions.What is the best overall cooling comforter?The Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter is my top pick for the best overall cooling comforter because of its truly cool-to-the-touch feel, comfort, color options, weight and moisture-wicking properties. During my testing, I found that it kept me dry throughout the night -- an extremely important characteristic for a hot sleeper like myself.
Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter in ivory has a cool-to-the-touch feel. Caroline Igo/CNETWhat We Updated: April 2025We added another selection to this best list and updated the product details in the comparison chart.Best cooling comforters of 2025
Editors' choice
Caroline Igo/CNET
Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter
Best overall cooling comforter
$229 at Rest Duvet
Why we chose this comforter: The Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter is silky soft and truly cool to the touch. It's machine-washable, has a wavy stitch pattern and comes in six colors: arctic white, snow ivory, cool gray, aqua blue, navy and lavender. Three of those colors are reversible, so you can easily switch up the look of your bedding. It's made with Tencel Lyocell and poly fibers, and the cover is nylon and spandex. Plus, Rest Duvet often has sales, so you can often find this comforter for less than $180 after discounts for a queen size.Who should get it: The Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter is great for wicking away moisture, which is ideal if you sweat at night. It kept me dry, and when I turned to my side in the middle of the night, the other side of the comforter was still cool to the touch. If you prefer bedding with a little more fluff or don't want to use this as your sole comforter, I recommend using the Rest Evercool as a top sheet or a blanket. Either way, sleeping with it will keep you from waking up covered in sweat.Who shouldn't: If you don't sleep hot, this comforter will likely be too cold for you.Pros:Soft and very cool to the touchComes in six colors (three are reversible)Effectively wicks away moistureCons:Thinner and wrinkles easilyDoesn't have anchor loops if you want to use it as a duvet insertThreading wears over time
$229 at Rest Duvet
Caroline Igo/CNET
Slumber Cloud UltraCool Comforter
Softest cooling comforter
$335 at Slumber Cloud
Why we chose this comforter: I love how soft and fluffy the UltraCool Comforter by Slumber Cloud is; true to its name, it feels like a cloud. You can choose between lightweight (for the hottest sleepers) or all-season fill options and three different colors: white, navy and sand.Who should get it: If you loved everything about the Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter but wished it was fluffier and had anchor loops, then the Slumber Cloud UltraCool Comforter is for you. The truly cool-to-the-touch cover is made with nylon and spandex, and the filling is 100% polyester fiber. It's machine-washable, hypoallergenic and can be used as a comforter or a duvet insert.Who shouldn't: I noticed it might not be thin or lightweight enough for some hot sleepers. If that's you, I recommend the thinner Rest Evercool instead.Pros:Soft and truly cool to the touchFluffy; feels like a cloudTemperature regulatingCons:Only three color optionsMay not be light enough for some hot sleepers
$335 at Slumber Cloud
Caroline Igo/CNET
Silk and Snow Down Alternative Comforter
Best affordable cooling comforter
$110 at Silk and Snow
Why we chose this comforter: If you're looking for a cooling comforter with the best value, the Silk and Snow Down Alternative Comforter is easily the best option. This comforter is machine-washable and hypoallergenic. It's crafted with down-like microfiber fill and a square baffle construction to keep the fill in place. Plus, the corners have anchor loops if you want to use it as a duvet insert.Who should get it: This is a high-quality comforter for those shopping on a budget. The lightweight version in queen-size retails for $110, which we'd consider an excellent value -- and that's before factoring in the brand's frequent discounts. While I wouldn't say the outer shell is soft or cool to the touch, the comforter is lightweight. Made of 100% cotton, there are also all-season and winter thickness options, but hot sleepers should stick to the lightweight version.Who shouldn't: If you want a comforter that feels truly cool to the touch, this isn't the one for you.Pros:Can be a duvet insert or a comforterHas anchor loops to hold it in placeBest value for your moneyCons:Not soft or cool to the touchSome of the fill may escape
$110 at Silk and Snow
Caroline Igo/CNET
Brooklinen Down Comforter
Best lightweight cooling comforter
$299 at Brooklinen
Why we chose this comforter: Hot sleepers should look for comforters with the right cooling materials and weight. Truly lightweight comforters are hard to come by, but the Brooklinen Down Comforter is just right.Who should get it: If you want a fluffy comforter with ethically sourced down and feathers, try Brooklinen. The outer shell is made with 100% long-staple cotton and has a baffle box construction (meaning the filling won't get stuck in one place). The down cluster and feather fill are sustainably sourced from Hutterite Farms in Canada and are Downmark Certified.I like how fluffy this comforter is, and I can see it as a duvet insert or a comforter on its own. Just like any down comforter, be aware that some fill may escape. Also, be sure to dry-clean or spot-clean only.Who shouldn't: If you want a silky smooth or super cool to the touch comforter, this isn't the one for you. It's also not for you if you want to be able to throw your comforter in the washing machine.Pros:Fluffy, light and Downmark Certified650 fill power (lowest amount of heat retention)Has anchor loops for secure attachmentCons:Only available in whiteSome of the fill may escape
$299 at Brooklinen
Caroline Igo/CNET
Sijo AiryWeight Eucalyptus Comforter
Best temperature-regulating cooling comforter
$235 at Sijo Home
$235 at Amazon
$235 at Amazon
Why we chose this comforter: Sijo specializes in sustainable sleep products. Most of its bedding is made from eucalyptus fibers, which is one of the most sustainable fabrics. The cover and the filling are 100% Tencel lyocell, which is naturally cool and moisture-wicking. The Sijo AiryWeight Eucalyptus Comforter is cool to the touch, lightweight and has eight loops for securing it into place with a duvet cover.Who should get it: In addition to being the best temperature-regulating cooling comforter on this list, it's also the best for those with allergies. Eucalyptus is naturally hypoallergenic and the comforter is certified Asthma and Allergy Friendly. While I didn't find this comforter as soft as others on this list, its high-quality materials are hard to beat. It's gently weighted, so it provides a little more of that cozy feel.Who shouldn't: This comforter is not as soft as others on this list, so if that's your main priority, you'll want to look elsewhere.Pros:Thin and cool to the touchCan be a comforter on its ownOeko-Tex 100 and Asthma and Allergy Friendly certifiedHas anchor loopsCons:Not overly softOnly available in white
$235 at Sijo Home
$235 at Amazon
$235 at Amazon
Caroline Igo/CNET
Cozy Earth Bamboo Comforter
Best bamboo cooling comforter
$608 at Cozy Earth
Why we chose this comforter: Cozy Earth products feel and look luxurious, and its Bamboo Comforter is no exception. It has detailed stitching along the edge, a baffle box construction and feels cool to the touch. Plus, it looks great as a standalone comforter. The cover and the filling are 100% Viscose from bamboo, which is naturally breathable and moisture-wicking, keeping you cool.Who should get it: I see this comforter as all-season, so if you don't want to switch out your comforter as the seasons change, this is a good choice. I tested the standard fill, which I found cool and light enough for hot sleepers but can also help keep you warm during colder months. While this is one of the most expensive on the list, Cozy Earth does have frequent sales -- right now, the queen size is 25% off, bringing the price down to $319. The bamboo texture is smooth and a bit more durable than other delicate materials like silk.Who shouldn't: If you're on a tight budget, there are other more wallet-friendly options on this list.Pros:Made with 100% Viscose from bambooNaturally breathable and moisture-wickingHas anchor loopsCan be used as an all-season comforterCons:Expensive, retailing at $425 for a queenNot the softest
$608 at Cozy Earth
Caroline Igo/CNET
Birch Natural Down Duvet Insert
Best down cooling comforter
$399 at Birch
Why we chose this comforter: Birch is one of the best organic and natural bedding brands out there. Its Natural Down Duvet Insert is a mix of 70% white down and 30% wool fill, which both meet the Responsible Down Standard. The cover is made of organic cotton fibers that help wick moisture and keep you cool, and it meets the standards for being Fair Trade certified.Who should get it: If you're conscientious about your bedding and where the material comes from, look no further than Birch. While this comforter is meant for all seasons, I found it to be heavier than the other comforters on this list. However, it's very fluffy and will still be suitable for some hot sleepers. It's also machine-washable, so if you don't want to spot or dry clean your comforter, this is a great choice.Who shouldn't: This comforter is not suited for those wanting a super lightweight and airy one. It's also not for anyone needing a twin or twin XL size.Pros:Natural down and wool fillFeatures organic cottonFluffy and breathableCons:Expensive ($399 for a full/queen)Not available in twin or twin XL
$399 at Birch
Caroline Igo/CNET
Layla Down Alternative Comforter
Best down alternative cooling comforter
$229 at Layla
Why we chose this comforter: Down alternative comforters are eco-conscious and typically more affordable. Made without animal features or fur, the Layla Down Alternative Comforter feels pretty close to the real thing. The cover is made from 100% cotton, and its fill consists of 700-fill power down alternative fibers. Layla calls this fill Cluster-Loft, which is soft, fluffy and designed not to retain heat.Who should get it: This is a great choice if you want a comforter that feels like down without using any bird feathers. Instead of the usual baffle box design, Layla's comforter has an octagon pattern that keeps the fill from piling at one end. I would say that this can be a stand-alone comforter or a duvet insert. If you decide on the latter, it has four anchor loops.Who shouldn't: This comforter is not overly soft or cool to the touch, so if that's what you want, this won't be the one for you.Pros:Fluffy, light and the cover is made of 100% cottonOEKO-Tex certified fabricAvailable in gray and white color optionsCons:Not cool to the touchNot too soft
$229 at Layla
Aly Lopez/CNET
Cozy Earth Silk Comforter
Best silk cooling comforter
$936 at Cozy Earth
Why we chose this comforter: Cozy Earth's Silk Comforter is where silky luxury and cozy comfort meet. The outer shell is crafted with 100% bamboo viscose, while the fill is 100% mulberry silk. Silk comforters aren't always the most cooling, but this one is breathable, moisture-wicking and cool to the touch. Hot sleepers should go with the standard fill option.Who should get it: As the most expensive comforter on this list, it's only for those wanting to splurge. "It's my favorite comforter of all time," says CNET sleep writer Aly Lopez. "I tend to sleep hot and kick the covers off (especially since we don't have air conditioning), but I haven't had to do that. It's substantial but still airy, so it's cozy without making me overheat. I thought it would feel warmer, but I can still sleep temperature-neutral all night."Who shouldn't: Because of its delicate materials, this comforter requires gentle spot cleaning or dry cleaning. If you want a comforter you can throw in the washer and dryer, skip this one. It's also not for those on a budget or for really hot and sweaty sleepers. Pros:Soft, silky and luxuriousHas snap closures and loops for securingMoisture-wicking and breathableCozy without being too hotCons:Expensive, retailing at $936 for a queenRequires special care for cleaningWrinkles easilyNot for super hot sleepers
$936 at Cozy Earth
Other cooling comforters testedWhile they didn't make my list, a few other comforters have features worth noting. Here are my honorable mentions.Casper Lightweight Humidity Fighting Duvet
See at Walmart
Casper Lightweight Humidity Fighting Duvet: It's made with a 100% cotton shell and filled with ethically sourced down. An added layer of merino wool helps to wick away moisture. While it doesn't have the typical baffle box design, there are sewn-in long rectangles that keep the down in place. There are also anchor loops for a duvet cover, which is a good idea considering the duvet isn't too soft.Ultimately, this duvet didn't make my list due to the price. The Brooklinen Down Comforter is lighter, softer and costs less.Sleep Number True Temp Blanket
See at Sleep Number
Sleep Number True Temp Blanket: I like that this one comes in five fun colors. Out of all the comforters I tested, this had the most variety. The blanket is lightweight but feels a little rough. The cover has a 300 thread count and is made of cotton and polyester. I would say it's cool to the touch, but not as cool as the others on my list. It is filled with polyester and what Sleep Number calls 37.5 technology, which refers to material embedded with volcanic minerals that wick away moisture.This is more of a blanket than a comforter. You can still use this as a cooling comforter; I just wish it were softer and more comfortable.Best cooling comforters compared
BrandPrice (Queen)SizesMaterialsThread CountMachine-Washable?Hypoallergenic?Trial Rest Evercool Cooling Comforter $229Twin/Twin XL, Full/Queen, King/Cal KingTencel, nylon, spandex and polyesterNot specifiedYesYes30 nightsSlumber Cloud UltraCool Comforter $335Twin/Twin XL, Full/Queen, King/Cal KingNylon, spandex and polyester fiber fill300YesYes60 nightsSilk and Snow Down Alternative Comforter $110Twin/Twin XL, Full/Queen, King/Cal KingCotton, down-like microfillNot specifiedYesYes100 nightsBrooklinen Down Alternative Comforter $299Twin/Twin XL, Full/Queen, King/Cal KingGoose down and duck feathers, cotton shell400NoYes365 nightsSijo AiryWeight Eucalyptus Comforter $235Twin/Twin XL, Full/Queen, King/Cal KingTencel lyocell, nylon and fiberNot specifiedNoYes60 nightsCozy Earth Bamboo Comforter $608Twin, Full/Queen, KingBamboo ViscoseNot specifiedNoYes100 nightsBirch Natural Down Duvet Insert $399Full/Queen, King/Cal KingWhite down, woolNot specifiedYesNot specified100 nightsLayla Down Alternative Comforter $229Twin/Twin XL, Full/Queen, King/Cal KingCotton shell, down alternative300YesYes30 nightsCozy Earth Mulberry Silk Comforter $936Twin, Full/Queen, KingBamboo Viscose, Mulberry silkNot specifiedNoYes100 nightsCasper Lightweight Humidity Fighting Duvet $219King/Cal KingCotton shell, Merino wool and down fillNot specifiedYesNot specified30 nightsSleep Number True Temp Blanket $160Queen, KingCotton, polyester300YesNot specified100 nights
How I tested the best cooling comforters
I slept with a different comforter each night to analyze and compare each one. Caroline Igo/CNETI considered each comforter's materials, feel, weight, cooling properties, size and price. I then used one comforter each night, in addition to some daytime lounging. The comforter I normally sleep with consists of a light duvet insert and a white duvet cover. However, during my testing, I didn't put a duvet cover over any of the comforters (honestly, most don't need a cover). Note that if you choose to use a duvet cover, the cool-to-the-touch sensation and breathability of your comforter may be affected.You won't find a comforter, duvet or blanket that will stay ice cold for the entire night, but these cooling comforters contain temperature-neutral materials that won't retain any body heat. Some have a cool-to-touch feel that I noted, but be aware that these comforters won't feel that cool all night.What to consider when choosing a cooling comforterMaterialThe best cooling comforters will be made of cotton, bamboo, linen, eucalyptus and/or microfiber, while the best cooling covers will be made of nylon, polyester or spandex.SizeSome brands don't offer cooling comforters in a twin or twin XL size. However, you can always size up if you want that oversized look and feel.ThicknessHot sleepers should look for a lightweight and thin comforter. However, if you prefer fluffier bedding, a thicker and airier comforter containing temperature-neutral materials will still work.PriceBedding can be expensive, but high-quality comforters are available for around $150 to $250 for a queen-size. Comforters with more luxury materials (such as silk or bamboo) may well be over $300 or $400.AllergiesIf you have allergies or asthma, it's important to sleep with hypoallergenic bedding. This can reduce your exposure to dust mites, mold and other allergens.
Best cooling comforters FAQ
What is the best material for a comforter to keep you cool?
The best cooling comforters will be made out of cotton, bamboo, linen, eucalyptus or microfiber. Cooling covers will be made of nylon, polyester or spandex. Steer clear of heavy comforters.
Do cooling comforters actually work?
Some cooling comforters may feel cool to the touch, but this sensation won't last all night long. The material inside the cooling comforter is what works. These types of comforters are made from material that won't retain body heat and remain temperature-neutral. A cool-to-the-touch cover is only an added bonus.
How much do cooling comforters cost?
You can find cheap cooling comforters for around $50 on Amazon, but the higher quality comforters that will actually regulate your temperature can cost you anywhere from $150 to $300. Hot sleepers should look for cooling comforters made of materials that won't retain heat, such as flannel, wool and down that's not lightweight.
Are all cooling comforters light?
Not all. While some cooling comforters are lightweight to help people in the summer, some all-season cooling comforters still have a heavier feel and sensation that might be familiar to a regular duvet. If you'd like something heavier, we recommend all-season comforters or those with a silk insert.
What is the healthiest type of comforter?
Comforters made of organic and natural materials like cotton, down, and wool are better than those filled with polyester. Polyester-based comforters can accumulate significant amounts of dust mites.
Should I buy a comforter or a quilt?
It depends. A quilt is generally better for hot sleepers because it is much thinner than a comforter. However, it may lack the versatility of a comforter.
Should I add a duvet cover?
A duvet cover adds extra protection to your comforter, but it can change the feel and how warm or cool you sleep. If you tend to overheat at night, go for a duvet cover made from cotton, bamboo or sateen. That way, you’ll still enjoy the cooling effects of your comforter.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.