Research Integrity and Publication Ethics - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Research integrity
and publication ethics
PLOS upholds the highest international standards for research integrity and publication ethics.Our non-profit journals serve researchers and research stakeholders in transforming scholarly communication for the better and when it comes to scientific rigor and editorial integrity, we do not compromise. Working with our communities to inspire, implement, and enforce leading policies for ethical research conduct and academic integrity is a critical pillar of our mission to build an open, fair, and trustworthy foundation of knowledge that all can build from.PLOS is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE). PLOS journals abide by COPE’s Code of Conduct and aim to adhere to its Best Practice Guidelines.
We safeguard the integrity of the scholarly record
PLOS has a dedicated Publication Ethics Team with specialized expertise in research integrity. In collaboration with the journal teams, they develop ethics-related policies and workflows, address concerns raised about PLOS content, and help to protect PLOS journals from large-scale integrity issues such as paper mills and peer review and citation rings. They provide robust guidance and consistent support to the expert Editors-in-Chief, Executive Editors, Staff Editors, and Editorial Board members who lead our journals.PLOS staff regularly contribute their expertise to industry-leading policies and working groups including:The 2023 COPE guidance on addressing large-scale papermill cases (co-authored by the PLOS Publication Ethics team)COPE Paper Mills Working GroupFORCE11 and COPE guidance on Research Data Publishing EthicsUnited2Act Working GroupsThe STM Integrity Hub projectThe NISO CREC Working GroupThe International Research Integrity Reference Group
We set high expectations for ethical conduct
PLOS has established leading policies for the researchers who choose to contribute to our journals as authors, editors, and reviewers, and we hold ourselves accountable to the same standards.All contributors to our journals must:Follow best practices for authorship and publication ethics. Including but not limited to our policies pertaining to dual submission, attribution, plagiarism, image integrity and figure preparation, and competing interests.Comply with our research ethics policies. Authors must comply with PLOS policies on human subjects research, animal research, global research.Agree to uphold our codes of conduct. All reviewers and editors are required to treat manuscripts fairly and in confidence, comply with our ethical peer review policy, and declare any competing interests.
We manage quality before, during, and after peer review
Pre-publication ethics and integrity checks
All submissions undergo a series of pre-publication checks to ensure that they meet PLOS’ core requirements, including adherence to our research ethics and publication ethics policies. These include but are not limited to checks for:Research ethics approvals for human subjects and animal researchInformed consent statements for human subjects researchText overlap and reuse (plagiarism)Dual submission Compliance with PLOS policies on competing interests and authorshipTo support integrity checks, investigations into integrity concerns, and other aspects of submission processing, PLOS evaluates submissions using a combination of manual approaches and technology tools which may include AI tools or other web-based platforms.
Rigorous peer review and editorial evaluation
All published articles are peer-reviewed by experts in the field and evaluated by our trusted Editorial Board Members and/or Editorial Staff and undergo thorough screening for compliance with our policies.
Post-publication processes
Scholarly communication is a continuous cycle and our work does not stop when a paper is published. PLOS follows up on all concerns raised about our submissions or publications in accordance with COPE guidance and PLOS policies, and where appropriate, we retract, correct, or issue editorial notices (Editorial Notes, Expressions of Concern) to address verified issues.If you have concerns about the integrity of a PLOS article, please email pub-ethics@plos.org.
We respond to emerging challenges
Challenges around ensuring the integrity of the published record affect our whole industry. Our Publication Ethics team is proactive in developing policies and processes to address these issues, and share our learnings with the scholarly community.
Manipulation of the publication process
Manipulation of the publication process encapsulates a variety of issues including fabrication and/or sale of content, peer review, or authorship (e.g. via “paper mills”) and peer review manipulation.
What we’re doing: We have systems in place to detect and follow up on concerning patterns across submissions that may be indicative of papermill involvement or attempts to manipulate peer review. In 2023 we implemented a new policy that enables us to take clear action in addressing these concerns whether they are identified before or after publication.
Use of AI writing tools
Artificial intelligence tools can be useful for researchers in conducting research and communicating research findings. However, the rise in generative AI tools also presents risks of inaccurate information, lack of attribution to original sources, and production of fabricated content.
What we’re doing: In 2023, PLOS implemented a
new policy requiring authors to disclose any AI tools used in the study or an article’s contents, and to ensure the accuracy and correct attribution of ideas generated by AI tools. It also outlines steps PLOS will take if concerns are raised about AI tool usage. Our Ethical Peer Review policy outlines our position on AI tool usage in peer review.
We encourage open science practices that enhance research integrity
We’re committed to improving the ways in which research is discovered, assessed and recognized for its academic rigor, transparency, and utility to the broader scholarly community.
Open science practices reduce opportunity for bias, improve reproducibility and provide readers with additional context to understand, evaluate and continue building upon research findings. PLOS offers several markers that readers can use to deepen their understanding of the research we publish:
ORCiD ID
Required
All corresponding authors must provide an ORCiD ID when submitting to a PLOS journal. Co-authors, reviewers, and editorial board members are also encouraged to provide an ORCiD ID to provide a more detailed scholarly record.
Data availability
Required
Our Data Availability Policy mandates all authors make their data publicly available.
Data deposition
Highly encouraged
Use of a data repository extends the longevity and reproducibility of research data. Look for our “Accessible Data” icon to find articles with research data that has been shared in an open repository.
Open code
Highly encouraged
Sharing code that underpins the study’s findings is required for authors submitting to PLOS Computational Biology and encouraged for all other journals.
Open methods
Highly encouraged
PLOS journals offer a variety of discipline-specific solutions such as preregistration or published protocols that enhance reproducibility and reusability.
Published peer review
Highly encouraged
Authors who choose to publish their Peer Review History alongside their published article enable readers to verify the expert assessment behind the work.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top