This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 15, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
NETGEAR 16-Port PoE+ Gigabit Ethernet Unmanaged Essentials Switch
$160
$235
Save $75
A high-quality and versatile 16-port switch that's perfect for upgrading any smart home. Grab this one for one of its best prices as it drop to $160.
$160 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
While many people prefer to use wireless connections for their devices, wired connections still play a crucial role — especially when reliability is key. With a wired network, not only are you able to achieve faster speed with increased stability, but you can also power devices through the same cable, which is essential for building out a robust smart home. And if you're someone that's considering wiring up their location, that's where a solid PoE switch comes in. While there are plenty of different brands to choose from, we think Netgear offers some great solutions, with this 16-port PoE+ switch delivering everything you could want at a fair price. For a limited time, you can score a substantial discount on this model that knocks 32% off the retail price. It's an absolute must-have, so get it while you still can.
Plenty of ports, plenty of power
As far as what you get, this switch features 16 Gigabit Ethernet ports, with 183W of total power. Now, there are going to be some restrictions on the power here, with each port providing a maximum of 30W. Of course, that shouldn't be much of a problem considering that most devices won't draw that much, unless you're utilizing products that are for commercial use.
Like many of Netgear's products, this switch is simple to install and easy to use, and doesn't require any additional software. The hardware is solid, plus you also get fan-less operation, which makes the switch silent during operation. In addition to the above, Netgear throws in a three-year warranty just in case anything goes wrong. And you can also find all the fine details about the switch on Netgear's website. Overall, not a bad device to get your home lab up and running. So if you've been thinking about taking the next step and want something reliable, this Netgreat switch is going to be just the thing.
Networking
netgear
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 14, 2025
4 reasons a SATA SSD still belongs in your gaming rig
Sep 14, 2025
This free tool basically adds Restore on AC Power Loss to devices that don't support it
Sep 14, 2025
I turned my old gaming PC into a TrueNAS server, and here's how it went
Sep 13, 2025
Score this 180Hz gaming monitor for dirt cheap as it drops to just $95
Today's best deals
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
27 minutes ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
3 hours ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
4 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Arm is the future of desktop computing, and the writing is on the wall for x86
If you really love Hollow Knight: Silksong, you have to play these challenging metroidvania games as well
I finally set up Home Assistant, but here are 4 challenges I didn't expect
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.