Best Cheap Web Hosting in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Web Hosting
Best Cheap Web Hosting in 2025
We’ve studied the best cheap web hosting services and broken down their features, quality of service and pricing to help you find the best host for your budget.
Our Experts
Written by
Dianna Gunn
Article updated on July 31, 2025 at 12:51 PM PDT
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time. Expertise Web Hosting, Online Business Management
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Types of web hosting
Most cheap web hosting is shared hosting, which limits your storage and bandwidth because you're sharing a server with other sites. You may also be able to get cheap WordPress hosting, a type of shared hosting optimized for the content management system, WordPress.
Security
Even a cheap web host should offer data encryption through SSL and firewall protection to keep malware away from your site.
Performance
Your web host should offer a 99.9% uptime guarantee, minimizing how often your site goes offline. They may also offer tools like caching to improve your site speed.
Customer service
Customer service should be available 24/7 via live chat. Multiple support channels -- like email or phone -- is better.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Whether you're looking to start a business website or a personal blog, you'll need web hosting to be able to publish it online. Web hosting can be expensive, but it doesn't have to be. I've researched dozens of web hosts (and tested several of them) to find the best cheap web hosting companies. These companies offer both low initial pricing -- typically around $3 a month -- and low renewal pricing, with basic plans staying under $12 on contract renewal. Better yet, they do it without sacrificing reliability or server (and therefore site) speed. Our Picks
Best cheap web hosting overall AccuWeb
Jump to details
See at AccuWeb
Jump to details
Best value web host Hostinger
Jump to details
See at Hostinger
Jump to details
Best customer service Ionos
Jump to details
See at Ionos
Jump to details
Best security HostArmada
Jump to details
See at HostArmada
Jump to details
Best for advanced users InterServer
Jump to details
See at Interserver
Jump to details
WEB HOSTING DEALS OF THE WEEK
Cloudways – Use Promo Code CNET305 for 30% off for 5 Months:  $38 (save $21)
Ultahost — Web Hosting plans (Use code ‘CNET’ for extra 15% off):  $3 (save $5)
Hostinger — Save 75% Off 2 Years Premium Plan + 3 Months Free:  $3 (save $12)
IONOS — Save 93% Off 1 Year IONOS Plus Plan:  $1 (save $14)
HostGator — Save 66% Off 3 Years HostGator Hatchling Plan:  $3 (save $11) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Cheap Web Hosting in 2025
What is the best cheap web hosting right now?
The best cheap web hosting
Best cheap web hosting overall
Best value web host
Best customer service
Best security
Best for advanced users
Factors to consider when choosing a cheap web hosting service
What about free web hosting?
How CNET tests web hosting
Other web hosting we've tested
Cheap web hosting FAQs
What is the best cheap web hosting right now?
James Martin/CNETAccuWeb is the best cheap web hosting service because you’ll get a lot of features even on the lowest-cost WordPress hosting plan, which costs just $2 a month when you choose a three-year contract. Some of the plan's most notable features include LiteSpeed-enhanced servers, daily backups, a custom firewall, antivirus protection and malware scanning. Moreover, this plan only rises to $2.49 a month on renewal, much less than the $10 to $20 per month other web hosts charge for long-term hosting.
CompanyBest forStarting storage and bandwidthPrice AccuWeb Hosting Best overall10GB (enough for at least 100 pages) storage, 100GB bandwidth (enough for 10,000 monthly visitors)$2 per month to start, $2.49 per month on renewal, based on three-year contractHostinger Best value web host25GB (enough for at least 250 pages) storage, unmetered bandwidth$3 per month to start, $11 per month on renewal, based on four-year contractIonos Best customer service10GB (enough for at least 100 pages) storage, unmetered bandwidth$4 per month to start, $6 per month on renewal, based on one-year contractHost Armada Best security15GB (enough for at least 150 pages) storage, unmetered bandwidth$2.50 per month to start, $10 per month on renewal, based on three-year contractInterServer Best for advanced usersUnlimited$2.50 per month, renews at $7 per month, based on any timeline
The best cheap web hosting
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best cheap web hosting overall
AccuWeb
Pros
Renewal prices are only slightly more expensive than introductory prices
You can access the lowest pricing for WordPress even on a month-to-month plan
WordPress servers are LiteSpeed-enhanced, and the LiteSpeed plugin comes pre-installed
Custom firewall and antivirus protection
Malware scanning and DDoS protection available on all plans
Email hosting for at least five email addresses on all plans
Cons
Lowest-cost plans don’t include a free domain
Best discounts are only available on a three-year plan
AccuWeb offers deeply affordable WordPress hosting and shared hosting with many of the same features you'll get from more expensive hosting companies, such as LiteSpeed-enhanced servers for boosting site speed and reliability.Who it's best forAccuWeb is your best choice if you want to build a site with WordPress and you want to keep your hosting costs permanently low, as the renewal price hike on the most affordable plan is less than $1 per month.Why we like itWhether you're looking for LiteSpeed-enhanced servers to ensure excellent website performance, advanced security protocols like DDoS protection or robust customer service offerings, AccuWeb Hosting has you covered.All plans include a content delivery network (CDN) and LiteSpeed-enhanced servers for improving site speed, features often limited to higher-tier plans by other web hosts. Additionally, every AccuWeb hosting plan features top-notch security, including free secure socket layer -- SSL -- certification, a custom firewall and antivirus protection. You’ll also get DDoS -- distributed denial of service -- protection, malware scanning and daily backups.The other amazing thing about AccuWeb is that its most affordable plan, WordPress Basic, only becomes slightly more expensive on renewal, rising from $2 a month to just $2.50 a month. This price stability is unheard of in the web hosting industry, where companies often increase prices by $10 to $15 per month when a contract renews.AccuWeb offers 24/7 customer service via phone, support ticket and email. This is notable because many cheap web hosts keep their prices low by skimping out on customer support -- and even midrange web hosting companies sometimes skip phone support.The cheapest plansThe most affordable AccuWeb hosting plan is WordPress Basic ++, which offers enough storage for at least 100 pages and enough bandwidth (sometimes referred to as data transfer) for 10,000 monthly visitors. This plan also includes LiteSpeed-enhanced servers that offer caching for faster speeds and one virtual central processing unit -- vCPU -- for more efficient data processing. Best of all, it’s only $2 a month on the three-year plan -- and only goes up to $2.50 a month on renewal.AccuWeb also offers cheap shared hosting. The most affordable plan, based on a three-year plan, starts at $4 a month and only rises to $7 a month on renewal. This plan features enough storage for at least 500 pages and enough bandwidth for 75,000 users, plus email hosting for 150 accounts. Shared hosting users can also access AccuWeb's website builder, which has over 400 templates.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at AccuWeb
Specs & Configurations
Uptime guarantee
99.9%Storage
Starts at 10GB for WordPress hosting and 75GB for shared hostingPrice range - WordPress hosting
$2 to $7 a month to start; $2.50 to $14 a month on renewal, based on a three-year planPrice range - Shared hosting
$4 to $6 a month to start; $7 to $14 a month on renewal, based on a three-year plan
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best value web host
Hostinger
8.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
Free domain for one year included on all plans
LiteSpeed-enhanced servers and NVMe storage for WordPress servers
Automated backups
Email hosting for up to 100 email addresses on all plans
Cons
No customer support via phone or email
You must sign up for a three-year plan to access the best discount
Hostinger has become one of the fastest-growing companies in Europe, thanks to its variety of affordable web hosting plans, which can provide budget-friendly hosting for everything from small personal websites to medium-sized business sites. This variety of budget-friendly plans also earned Hostinger our Editor's Choice Award for Best Value Web Host in 2025.Who it's best forHostinger is the best cheap web host for users who are completely new to web hosting, owing to its high-quality site assistant. Hostinger's also a great choice if you want to create multiple websites, as most plans let you create at least 25 websites.Why we like itHostinger earned top marks during our hands-on testing, with incredibly simple tools for site building and server management, plus great uptime, site speed and security protocols. This mix of features combined with Hostinger's relatively low prices earned it our 2025 Editor's Choice award for Best Value Web Host.Setup starts with a straightforward purchase process, then moves to either an intuitive website builder or a guided WordPress installation with one of the better site assistants I've seen. WordPress users also get hPanel, a beginner-friendly alternative to the industry-standard cPanel. Furthermore, Hostinger's servers are all LiteSpeed-enhanced to provide the impressive site speed and uptime I experienced during my Hostinger review.Hostinger's security protocols include permanent SSL certification for all domains, an advanced firewall with DDoS protection and malware scanning/vulnerability scanning tools. Automated backups are conducted weekly on the lowest-tier plan and daily on the higher-tier plan, or, if you're using the website builder, every time you update your site.However, it's worth noting that Hostinger's customer service is rather lacking. You can only access it through live chat, which is AI-led. Reaching a human often takes 30 minutes or more. This makes Hostinger a poor choice if you're expecting to need a lot of support.The cheapest plansHostinger’s basic shared hosting plan starts at the wallet-friendly price of $3 a month and renews at $11 a month, based on a four-year commitment. This plan includes one-click WordPress installation, LiteSpeed-enhanced servers, basic WooCommerce support, WordPress auto-updates, weekly backups and NVMe -- nonvolatile memory express -- storage for faster performance than standard SSD storage. The storage space provided is enough for at least 1,000 web pages. There’s also a site builder with both designer-made templates and AI site generation tools.WordPress hosting from Hostinger starts at the same price and includes many of the same features. However, you won’t get access to the website builder if you choose WordPress hosting.Hostinger also offers a website builder plan for the same price, with all of the website builder features and none of the WordPress features. Sites built with the website builder will be automatically backed up every time an update is made. However, the website builder doesn’t use NVMe storage, and the basic plan doesn’t include e-commerce features.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Hostinger
Specs & Configurations
Uptime guarantee
99.9%Storage
Starts at 75GBShared and WordPress hosting price range
Starts at $3 to $8 a month; renews at $11 to $26 a monthWebsite builder hosting price range
Starts at $3 to $4 a month; renews at $11 to $14 a month, based on a three-year plan Score Breakdown
CNET ranking (out of 10)
8.4
Ease of use
10
Performance
9
Security
9
Customer support
5
Value
9
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best customer service
Ionos
8.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Great security features, including daily backups
Email hosting available with all plans
WordPress plans include setup assistant
WordPress hosting sites use isolated vCPUs for improved performance
WordPress plans have above-average uptime guarantee
Cons
You must sign up for three years to receive the largest discount
Ionos offers several types of web hosting, including cheap shared and WordPress hosting with impressive security tools and best-in-class customer service.Who it's best forIonos is a great choice if you're as concerned with customer service as you are with cost, since you'll be able to access 24/7 support via phone and live chat -- and both of those channels provide support quickly. You may also want to choose Ionos if you're concerned about data security and don't want to pay extra for -- or manually configure -- site backups, since daily backups are available on all plans.Why we like itWhile I faced some challenges in my initial search for the WordPress setup, I immensely enjoyed the rest of my experience with Ionos, thanks to its guided WordPress installation and beginner-friendly cPanel alternative. These tools do a great job of simplifying initial site setup and long-term server management.Ionos's security features include SSL certification, firewall protection, DDoS protection and daily backups. This last option is particularly noteworthy, as many cheap web hosts only offer weekly backups -- or none at all -- on their most affordable plans.Another benefit of Ionos is the spectacular customer service. I received fast, helpful support via both live chat and phone. The latter is particularly impressive, as many cheap web hosts don't provide phone support at all or don't employ enough phone support staff, resulting in long wait times.Ionos also recently implemented an above-average 99.99% uptime guarantee for all of its shared web hosting and WordPress hosting plans, ensuring that your site won't experience more than two minutes of downtime per week due to server issues.The cheapest plansTechnically, Ionos hosting starts at $1 a month, but that's an introductory rate for a midtier plan that goes up to $12 a month on renewal. If we're talking long-term pricing, the cheapest shared hosting plan from Ionos starts at $4 a month when purchased for one year and rises to $6 a month on renewal. This plan includes enough storage for at least 100 pages, unlimited traffic and email hosting for one custom email address.For WordPress hosting, Ionos offers a $1 a month discounted rate for a midtier plan, but that rises to $10 a month on renewal. If you want to consider long-term pricing, the most affordable Ionos WordPress hosting plan starts at $5 a month and rises to $6 a month on renewal, based on a one-year term. This plan includes enough storage for at least 250 pages, unlimited traffic, a WordPress setup assistant and a vCPU to improve site creation and performance. You'll also get email hosting for one custom email address.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Ionos
Specs & Configurations
Uptime guarantee
99.9% for shared hosting; 99.98% for WordPress hostingStorage
Starts at 10GB for shared hosting and 25GB for WordPress hostingShared hosting price range
Starts at $4 to $10 a month; renews at $6 to $18 a month, based on a three-year planWordPress hosting price range
Starts at $4 to $12 a month; renews at $6 to $17 a month, based on a three-year plan Score Breakdown
CNET Ranking (out of 10)
8
Ease of use
6
Performance
7
Security
9
Customer support
9
Value
9
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best security
HostArmada
Pros
Excellent security features
Cloud-based servers for optimal performance
Unlimited email hosting
Fast customer support
Cons
No free domain for first year
Must choose a three-year term to get the best discount
Renewal pricing is higher than most other options on this list
HostArmada is a relatively new web hosting company with a 4.9 out of 5 star rating on Trustpilot and an emphasis on cloud-based servers, which can provide better server speed and reliability than traditional physical servers.Who it's best forHostArmada is your best choice if you want to receive the best security possible, as it includes live server monitoring and multiple daily backups. However, you'll want to pay close attention to the renewal cost, as it's higher than the renewal costs of most other hosts on this list.Why we like itHostArmada offers 24/7 customer support via live chat, phone, email and support ticket -- and it claims to respond to most queries in less than 10 minutes. HostArmada even claims a response time of 1 hour for email inquiries, much faster than the response times of two or more hours I’ve experienced with other web hosts.HostArmada also provides a variety of benefits for even its lowest-tier users, including cloud-based servers for optimal performance and security features like SSL certification, firewall protection, malware scanning and protection, brute force protection, live server monitoring and multiple daily backups.The cheapest planHostArmada’s shared hosting starts at $2.49 a month and rises to $10 a month on renewal if you choose a three-year term. You’ll get enough storage for at least 150 pages, unlimited email addresses and unmetered bandwidth capable of handling an estimated 30,000 visitors per month. However, you won’t get a domain for free, even in your first year of hosting.HostArmada also offers WordPress hosting for $2.49 a month to start and $10 a month on renewal. The base WordPress plan provides the same features as the lowest-tier shared hosting plan, with the addition of expert support to install, set up and update WordPress from HostArmada’s customer service team.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at HostArmada
Specs & Configurations
Uptime guarantee
99.9%Storage
Starts at 15GBShared and WordPress hosting price range
Starts at $2.50 to $5 a month, renews at $10 to $19.75 a month
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best for advanced users
InterServer
Pros
Unlimited data storage
Unlimited bandwidth
SSL certification
DDoS protection
WordPress installer
Automated WordPress updates
Choice between cPanel and DirectAdmin
Lowest prices available on month-to-month and annual plans
Cons
Signup/payment process is complicated for users new to web hosting
InterServer has provided unlimited storage, bandwidth and email hosting for affordable prices since 1999. InterServer also holds a 4.1 out of 5 star ranking on Trustpilot.Who it's best forInterServer is a great option if you're a developer and you're looking for an affordable way to host a personal website, especially if you want to do it without using cPanel. You can also use InterServer's affordable month-to-month pricing to create a temporary website for something like an event.Why we like itInterServer's unlimited storage, data transfer (bandwidth) and email hosting mean that your site can grow exponentially without forcing you to purchase a more expensive plan. The affordable month-to-month hosting also makes it easy to experiment with InterServer without the significant commitment of time and resources required by other web hosts. Unfortunately, the purchase process and hosting management areas are complex to navigate if you're not technically inclined.The cheapest planInterServer offers one main shared hosting plan starting at $2.50 a month. You can access this pricing at any contract length, including month-to-month contract (something that's usually much more expensive than annual or biannual pricing). Similarly, the renewal cost is $7 a month for both cPanel and DirectAdmin -- a cPanel alternative that claims to be even easier to use -- plans, regardless of the contract length you choose. This plan includes unlimited storage, unlimited data transfer, unlimited email hosting, SSL certification, an easy WordPress installer and automated WordPress updates.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Interserver
Specs & Configurations
Uptime guarantee
99.9%Storage
UnlimitedShared hosting price range
$2.50 a month to start; $7 a month on renewal
Add to compareFactors to consider when choosing a cheap web hosting service
Type of web hostingThe most affordable type of web hosting is shared hosting, a kind of web hosting that splits a server’s resources, such as bandwidth and data storage -- and the cost of maintaining them -- between hundreds of websites. This limits the amount of content, such as blog posts and landing pages, your site can store and the number of monthly visitors your website can accommodate, but also keeps hosting costs low.You can also get cheap WordPress hosting from some web hosts. This is usually a type of shared hosting optimized for the content management system (or CMS) WordPress, a popular tool for creating, organizing and maintaining blog posts and other online content. Some companies may also offer highly affordable options for cloud hosting or unmanaged virtual private server hosting. These options can provide more resources and better performance than shared hosting plans. However, they may require more technical expertise and maintenance time, especially in the case of unmanaged VPS hosting.SecurityEvery website, even a hobby website hosted on a cheap plan, should have the following basic security measures in place:Secure socket layer certification: The SSL protocol encrypts data sent to and from your site. SSL certification also signals to Google, browsers and VPNs that your site is safe.Firewall: A firewall catches malicious software attempting to infest your site. Some firewalls also offer protection against brute force and DDoS attacks.Some hosts also offer features like malware scanning, repair and automated backups, but these are rarely available on cheap web hosting plans.PerformanceThe main performance factor dictated by your host is uptime, the amount of time your site spends online. The industry standard is 99.9% uptime, meaning your site won’t go down for more than 45 minutes a month due to server issues. Some web hosts offer as much as 99.99% uptime, meaning your site won’t go down for more than four minutes per month.Some hosts also offer performance tools to improve site speed. These include caching mechanisms, which store key data in readers' browsers to improve loading times on repeat visits. There are also content delivery networks, which distribute data across numerous data centers so a reader's browser can pull from the data center closest to their location. However, these features are generally not included in the cheapest web hosting packages.Customer serviceYou should be able to reach customer service at any time of night via live chat and email. The best web hosts also generally have phone support available, though some cheap web hosting companies keep their prices low by limiting phone support availability.Customer support representatives should also respond quickly and know how to fix server and site issues. Some hosts may even provide teams specialized in content management systems like WordPress, though this tends to be limited to more expensive plans.PricePrice is, of course, the main reason you want a cheap web host -- you don’t want to spend a lot of money. But web hosting prices are complicated. If you want to make sure you’re getting the best deal possible, you’ll need to pay attention to the following:Contract length: Many web hosts require you to sign up for a one-, two- or even three-year term to access their best prices. This means you’ll pay for all of those months up front, so you’ll need to multiply the monthly price by 12, 24 or 36 to know your initial fee.Renewal pricing: Web hosting packages often come with introductory pricing, meaning the low price you see is only for the first term. Fees may increase by several dollars per month on renewal -- though on this list, we’ve selected web hosts with low renewal pricing.Additional fees: You may need to pay a separate fee for your domain, adding $20 to $30 to your annual costs. Some plans offer a domain free for the first year, then require you to pay a fee in subsequent years. There may also be additional fees for features like improved security features, caching or CDNs.For this article, we’ve defined cheap web hosting as web hosting with a renewal cost of $10 a month or less. All of the hosts on our main list offer plans with this renewal pricing. What about free web hosting?
There are some free web hosting plans, but they tend to have serious drawbacks, such as:Extremely limited storage and bandwidth: For example, the Wix free plan only gives you 500MB of storage and 1GB of bandwidth. This limits your site’s ability to store data and handle incoming traffic.No domain: Sites like Wix, Weebly and WordPress.com require you to use a subdomain (like yoursite.hostname.com). This can look unprofessional to visitors. If you want to use your own domain, you’ll need a paid plan.Ads: Some free hosting providers place ads on your website to recover the cost of the storage space your site uses. You don’t have any control over what these ads are, and you’re not the one getting paid when they do well -- your hosting provider is. Your ability to control where ads go on your site may also be limited.Poor customer service: Free hosting sites like InfinityFree rely on a support forum, where you can get help primarily from other customers, rather than offering customer support via more typical methods like live chat or email. Host employees may respond to your posts, but you can’t expect a fast response.For these reasons, I only recommend free web hosting if you’re creating a small hobby site or you want to use a free plan to test a website builder like Wix before you invest in a paid plan.If you’re truly determined to use a free plan, you can use one of the following options:InfinityFreeInfinityFree lets you create unlimited, ad-free websites on subdomains without ever paying a single dollar. These sites have unlimited bandwidth, but you’ll only get 5GB of disk space between them. You also won’t be able to access customer support through email, phone or live chat -- the only way to get help on a free plan is through the support forum.WixWix’s free plan lets you create a small website -- up to 500MB -- on a subdomain for free. Your site will have banner ads for Wix at the top of every page. However, you’ll get access to most of Wix’s design tools and templates, so this can be a good way to test Wix. You can also use it long-term for a very small hobby site.WordPress.comWordPress.com lets you create a free website on a subdomain. You’ll get unlimited storage, unlimited bandwidth, access to numerous website templates and WordPress-based design tools. You’ll also be able to set up paid subscriptions and payment buttons, but you’ll be charged 10% transaction fees by WordPress.com. WordPress.com will also place ads on your site. These ads will pay WordPress.com, not you. How CNET tests web hosting
We’ve performed extensive research on every host included in this list. This research starts with examining the host’s website to evaluate its plans for pricing, features and overall quality. We then look at reviews from third-party sources such as Trustpilot and check the Better Business Bureau for complaints about the company.We’ve also put some of these web hosts through our testing process for web hosting. This includes signing up for a hosting plan, setting up a website, conducting uptime monitoring and performing speed tests at various times of day. We also contact customer support through all channels to evaluate response times and helpfulness. Notes from these reviews are included in this list where relevant. Other web hosting we've tested
These web hosts offer good services, but may require add-ons or have renewal rates of $11 to $13 a month on their most affordable plans.GoDaddyGoDaddy is one of the biggest names in the web hosting business, powering 15.6% of all websites. GoDaddy also performed reasonably well in our testing, with relatively simple account setup and site management, great server performance and rapid customer service.GoDaddy’s shared hosting plans include a free domain for the first year, unmetered bandwidth, automated daily backups and the opportunity to choose the data center your site is stored in to improve site performance for your primary audience based on their location. You’ll also get free cPanel-based email.The most affordable plan from GoDaddy is the Web Hosting Economy plan, featuring enough storage for at least 100 pages and everything mentioned above. This plan starts at $6 a month and rises to $12 a month when you buy a one-year plan. However, you’ll be paying more than the sticker price to keep your site secure -- a firewall is only available through a $3 a month add-on, and SSL certification is only free for the first year. You'll pay $120 per year for SSL certification after that.Read our GoDaddy review.Hosting.com (formerly A2 Hosting)Hosting.com (formerly A2 Hosting) is a beginner-friendly web hosting service that performed well in our experience, with great site setup tools and solid server performance. The one downside was slow customer service via support ticket and phone.All of Hosting.com’s shared hosting plans include enough storage for at least 100 pages, unlimited data transfer and unlimited email addresses. Hosting.com also offers advanced security on all shared hosting plans, including permanent SSL certification, an advanced firewall, DDoS protection, brute force protection and a virus scanner.The cheapest shared hosting plan from Hosting.com starts at just $2 a month when you pay for a one-year term, and you won’t need to pay for any add-ons. However, you’ll be paying $12 a month on renewal.Read our Hosting.com review.HostGatorHostGator is a popular web host that performed reasonably well in our testing, with good site management tools and server performance but inconsistent customer service.All HostGator plans include a free domain for the first year, unmetered bandwidth, pre-installed WordPress complete with the HostGator site assistant, advanced firewall protection including DDoS protection and malware scanning. Email hosting for at least one email address is also included on all plans.The cheapest HostGator plan is the Hatchling shared hosting plan, which starts at $3.75 a month and rises to $11 a month on renewal, based on a three-year term. This plan includes 10GB of storage (enough for at least 100 pages) and everything listed in the previous paragraph. However, customer support on the Hatchling plan is limited to email and live chat.Read our HostGator review.NamecheapNamecheap is primarily known for its domain registration services, but the company also offers cheap web hosting. The lowest-tier plan starts at just $2 a month and the renewal rate is a low $3.82 a month if you choose a biannual plan -- and just $4.48 a month on a monthly plan. All plans include a free domain, basic firewall protection and email hosting for at least  30 email addresses.However, there are a couple of drawbacks to Namecheap -- the big one being that SSL certification is only free for the first year, and you'll have to pay additional fees for it after that. Customer support is also limited to live chat and email. Cheap web hosting FAQs
Which website host is the cheapest?
The cheapest respectable web host for long-term pricing is AccuWeb, offering a high-quality plan for the permanent price of $2.75 a month.
Show more
What is the best and cheapest place to host a website?
AccuWeb offers the best balance of features and pricing, providing LiteSpeed-enhanced servers and numerous security features on its cheapest web hosting plan for $2 a month ($2.50 a month on renewal). Hostinger is also a great choice, providing excellent site creation tools, server performance and security features for $3 a month ($11 a month on renewal).
Show more
What is the least costly way to build a website?
The least costly way to build a website to your exact specifications is to buy a cheap shared hosting plan -- often available for $2 to $5 a month -- with easy-to-install WordPress or a website builder. WordPress is the more flexible option, with tens of thousands of free plugins and themes available to help you customize your site.You can also get free web hosting, but this typically comes with strict limitations on your data storage and bandwidth. You may also be forced to use a subdomain -- like yourdomain.hostname.com -- and have ads on your site that pay the web host instead of you.
Show more
What is the minimum cost to host a website?
Technically, you can host a website for free. However, free plans typically only offer a subdomain, not a full domain, and automatically place ads on your site that pay the hosting company instead of you, with no way to opt out.The minimum cost to host a website at your own domain without ads placed on it by your web hosting company is $2 to $3 a month.
Show more
About the Author
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert
Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time.
Read full bio
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.