Apple Pie Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Apple Slab Pie
Golden Apple Pie
Apple Pear Pie
Pumpkin Apple Pie
Apple Pie Cheesecake
Apple Custard Pie
Apple Raisin Pie
Apple Raspberry Pie
Pineapple Apple Pie
Candy Apple Pie
Apple Butter Pie
Apple Cream Cheese Pie
Apple Walnut Pie
Macaroon Apple Pie
Cranberry Apple Pie
Apple Pie Cookies
Apple Praline Pie
Delicious Apple Pie
Cookie Sheet Apple Pie
Apple Graham Pie
Apple Pie Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesPiesApple Pies
Apple Pie
Apple Pie Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.5 | 228 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Bake: 1 hour
By
Lisa A. Kaminski and Lauren Pahmeier
Recipe by Maggie Greene, Granite Falls, Washington
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Apr. 15, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Baking apple pie from scratch is a fall baking tradition we treasure. Perfect your technique with our apple pie recipe, full of all the tips and tricks you'll need.
There’s no fall treat more iconic than the apple pie. Who doesn’t love going to their local orchard, bringing home pick-your-own apples and turning them into a comforting and nostalgic treat made entirely from scratch? Because this fall dessert is so beloved, it’s one home bakers should learn to master. But if baking pies is intimidating to you, have no fear—we’ll walk you through how to make the perfect homemade apple pie.
Best Apples for Apple Pie
The best apples for apple pie include tart and firm varieties that have a lot of flavor. In the Taste of Home Test Kitchen, we prefer using Granny Smith apples for pies because of their tartness and ability to hold their shape. However, there are other kinds that will work just as well, since everyone has their own personal preferences on flavor. Just be sure to use a firm, crisp apple that will hold up to baking.
We’d recommend Cortland, Braeburn, Honeycrisp and Pink Lady, or even a combination of these. Stay away from Red Delicious, Fuji and Golden Delicious when making pie.
Apple Pie Ingredients
Double-crust pie dough: While you can make pie crust from butter, shortening or lard, we recommend using butter for the best flavor and lots of flaky layers to enjoy. You’ll need a good foundation for this pie, so we recommend our Test Kitchen’s favorite butter pie crust.
Apples: Typically, one medium apple yields 1-1/3 cups sliced—so you’ll need about five medium-sized, peeled apples to make 6 cups of apples (what this recipe calls for). You’ll have a little left for a snack or to use in any of these apple recipes.
Brown sugar and granulated sugar: Granulated sugar adds sweetness to the filling, while brown sugar adds sweetness plus a little moisture and caramelly flavor.
Spices: Ginger, cinnamon and nutmeg work together to create those warming, comforting flavors that we all love in apple pie.
Lemon juice: A splash of lemon juice adds brightness and freshness to the filling that balances out the other ingredients.
Directions
Step 1: Prep and refrigerate the pie dough
Make your favorite recipe for double pie crust. Then preheat the oven to 375°F.
Step 2: Roll out the pie dough
Taste of Home
On a lightly floured surface, roll half of the dough to a 1/8-inch-thick circle, and transfer to a 9-inch pie plate. Chill while preparing the filling.
Taste of Home
Editor’s Tip: Rotate the dough a quarter-turn after each roll to guarantee a more evenly rolled-out crust. You can also put a piece of parchment on top of the dough when you’re using the rolling pin to prevent sticking.
Step 3: Make the apple pie filling
Taste of Home
Combine the brown sugar, granulated sugar, flour, cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg in a small bowl. In a large bowl, toss the sliced apples with the lemon juice. Add the sugar mixture to the apples, and toss to coat.
Step 4: Add the filling to the crust
Taste of Home
Next, add your apple mix to the pie dish, and dot it with butter, which will add a little bit of last-minute richness to the filling.
Editor’s Tip: If you have any cracks in the dough before adding the apples, just stick your finger in ice water, and seal it back together again.
Step 5: Cover and seal the pie
Taste of Home
Roll the remaining dough into an 1/8-inch-thick circle. Cut into 1-inch-wide strips.
Taste of Home
Arrange the dough strips over the pie filling in a lattice pattern. Trim and seal the strips to the edge of the bottom crust. Flute the edge.
Step 6: Prep your pie for the oven
Taste of Home
Create a simple egg wash by beating an egg white until foamy. Brush this over the top of your pie.
Taste of Home
Finally, sprinkle turbinado sugar and ground cinnamon over the top crust, which will give the pie a bit of sparkle, crunch and extra flavor.
Editor’s Tip: If you find that the crust is a little bit warm to the touch, pop it in the freezer for 10 minutes before you put it in the preheated oven.
Step 7: Bake the apple pie
Taste of Home
Place your pie on the lowest rack of the oven, and bake for 6o to 70 minutes, until the crust is golden brown and the filling is bubbly.
Editor’s Tip: If the crust is getting dark too quickly, pull out the pie halfway through, and cover the crust with foil or a silicone pie shield.
Step 8: Cool the apple pie
When the filling is bubbling and the crust is golden brown, remove the apple pie from the oven, and allow it to cool completely on a wire rack.
How to Cut Apple Pie
Slicing and serving pie—at least the first piece—is always a bit tricky. If you don’t wait for the pie to cool, the filling may spill out, but if you’re patient and let it set, the filling should stay in place as you dig in. It will take a couple of hours for it to cool, so plan accordingly!
Once the pie has cooled, use a sharp knife to cut the slice, and then break out the pie server to scoop it from the dish.
Apple Pie Variations
Change the crust: If you prefer a different kind of fat in your crust, go for a shortening or lard pie crust instead of using butter. (Spoiler: We taste-tested butter, shortening and lard pie crusts and liked the butter one best.)
Change the filling: To switch out the classic apple pie filling, experiment with different apple varieties, or try your hand at various flavor combos, like pumpkin apple, cranberry apple, salted caramel apple pie and even bumbleberry pie. Some people even like to eat apple pie with cheddar cheese on top!
How to Store Apple Pie
Once your pie is fully cooled, you can store it at room temperature in a pie dome, cake carrier or airtight container, or wrapped in foil for up to two days. After two days at room temperature, it can go in the refrigerator, where it will last for an additional two days.
How to Freeze Apple Pie
If you’re going to freeze your apple pie, it’s best to freeze it before baking—although you can freeze it after baking. Place the pie (baked or unbaked) uncovered in the freezer. Once it’s frozen solid (which should take about two to three hours), wrap up the pie or store it in an airtight container or resealable bag, then place it back in the freezer. You can keep it frozen for three to four months.
When you’re ready to eat again, pull the pie out of the freezer to let it thaw while you preheat the oven to 350°.  If it was baked before you put it in the freezer, it should take 25 to 30 minutes for it to heat through.
If you froze the pie unbaked, let the pie fully thaw before baking, then bake according to the recipe directions.
Apple Pie Tips
Taste of Home
How do you peel apples for apple pie?
You can definitely peel apples with a paring knife, but you could save a little time with your favorite apple peeler, whether it’s a swivel, Y-shaped or crank style.
How can you prevent apple pie from being too watery?
To prevent a watery pie, you can precook the apples for a few minutes, like the recipe calls for in Joanna Gaines’ signature apple pie. Then drain the apples, and mix up the filling as normal.
Another tip to prevent your pie from getting watery is having your pie crust fully ready before mixing the filling. The longer the filling sits before baking, the more moisture it will release.
How can you fix a soggy bottom crust?
If you find that your apple pie is a little bit soggy on the bottom, don’t fret! Preheat the oven to 425°. Cover your pie with foil, and put the pie on the bottom rack. Bake for an extra 10 to 15 minutes. Since you’re covering the top with foil, you don’t need to worry about it becoming too golden with the extra time in the oven.
If you want to take extra steps to prevent a soggy bottom crust before you bake, you’ll need to set up the bottom crust to heat more rapidly than the rest of the pie. To do this, place a baking sheet in the oven while preheating, and bake your pie on the sheet.
Can you make a different kind of crust for apple pie?
Our guide to how to make decorative pie crusts provides more ideas, ranging from festive cutouts, to braided edges and more.
Is it better to bake a pie in glass or metal?
Both metal and glass pie plates work well for baking double-crust pies like apple pie. But for single-crust pies that are pre-baked, a metal plate is preferred because it heats quicker and ensures a crisp crust. Find more pie-baking tips in our ultimate pie-baking guide.
How do you serve apple pie?
If you ask us, apple pie is best served a la mode (with a scoop of ice cream), a drizzle of salted caramel and a dollop of homemade whipped cream.
Watch How to Make Apple Pie
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Apple Pie
4.5 | 228 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:8 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:1 hour
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
Dough for double-crust pie
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup packed brown sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
6 to 7 cups thinly sliced peeled tart apples
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 tablespoon butter
1 large egg white
Optional: Turbinado or coarse sugar, ground cinnamon, vanilla bean ice cream and caramel sauce
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 375°. On a lightly floured surface, roll out half the dough to a 1/8-in.-thick circle; transfer to a 9-in. pie plate. Refrigerate while preparing filling. In a small bowl, combine sugars, flour and spices. In a large bowl, toss apples with lemon juice. Add sugar mixture; toss to coat. Add filling to crust; dot with butter.
Roll out remaining dough to a 1/8-in.-thick circle; cut into 1-in.-wide strips. Arrange over filling in a lattice pattern. Trim and seal strips to edge of bottom crust; flute edge. Beat egg white until foamy; brush over crust. If desired, sprinkle with turbinado sugar and cinnamon.
Bake on lowest rack for 60-70 minutes or until crust is golden brown and filling is bubbly, covering with foil halfway through if crust begins to get too dark. Cool on a wire rack. If desired, serve with ice cream and caramel sauce.
Nutrition Facts
1 piece: 467 calories, 25g fat (15g saturated fat), 64mg cholesterol, 331mg sodium, 58g carbohydrate (26g sugars, 2g fiber), 5g protein.
Author
Lisa A. Kaminski
Lisa is a former Taste of Home editor. During her six years here, she researched and tested ingredients, kitchen gear and home products, and wrote articles to highlight the best of the best.
Read More
Author
Lauren Pahmeier
Lauren is an editor at Taste of Home, focusing on search engine optimization. When she’s not pitching, writing or making sure that readers can find TOH’s recipes on Google, she’s consistently trying new (healthy-ish) recipes, staying as active as possible to make up for her sweet tooth, and exploring all the coffee shops that Milwaukee has to...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
I remember coming home sullen one day because we'd lost a softball game. Grandma, in her wisdom, suggested that maybe a slice of hot apple pie would make me feel better. She was right. —Maggie Greene, Granite Falls, Washington
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box