J&J Survived 'Tylenol Murders' PR Crisis; Autism Claims Are Round 2 - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Healthcare
J&J survived the 'Tylenol murders' and pioneered crisis communications. Trump's autism claims are round 2.
By
Sarah E. Needleman
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
2025-09-23T21:56:25Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Trump's recent claims that Tylenol poses an autism risk are a PR nightmare for the brand.
The brand's original owner set a standard for crisis management after the 1982 Tylenol murders.
Experts suggest Kenvue focus on clear messaging to maintain public confidence.
Tylenol once survived a poisoning scandal. Now it has to survive President Donald Trump.
Kenvue, the company behind the household brand, at least has a playbook to turn to for guidance. That's because Tylenol's original owner, Johnson & Johnson, developed it decades ago after seven people in the Chicago area died from taking its capsules because someone had laced them with potassium cyanide. The 1982 unsolved mystery became known as the "Tylenol murders."J&J's handling of the incident not only saved the brand — and protected consumers from future tragedy — but also set the gold standard for crisis management that is still taught in business schools.
In response to Trump's comments on Monday, Kenvue disputed the president's claims that Tylenol is unsafe by sharing information it believes is accurate about the drug and saying it "strongly disagrees" with Trump's assertion that the active ingredient in it, acetaminophen, may cause autism in children if taken by a pregnant mother.Business Insider looked back at the Tylenol murders and spoke to communications experts about how J&J's response set them up to regain customer trust and create a safety innovation for the industry — and how things could play out this time around.Respond quickly and keep the message focusedInformation travels much faster now than in the early 1980s. Before Trump finished speaking on Monday, when he warned Americans not to take Tylenol about a dozen times in a press conference, his remarks were already making waves online.
By contrast, four decades ago, J&J first learned of the crisis when a Chicago news reporter called for comment about a medical examiner's report on the deaths, according to a Department of Defense analysis of the infamous incident.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
This time, Summit, N.J.-based Kenvue issued its statement defending Tylenol in a matter of hours."Acetaminophen is the safest pain reliever option for pregnant women as needed throughout their entire pregnancy," the company said. "The facts are that over a decade of rigorous research, endorsed by leading medical professionals and global health regulators, confirms there is no credible evidence linking acetaminophen to autism. We stand with the many public health and medical professionals who have reviewed this science and agree."
That was the right move from a public-relations perspective, said Kara Schmiemann, a senior director at crisis communications firm Red Banyan."You have to be extremely conscious of making sure that your messaging is focused on the right thing, which is the people and their health and their well-being," she said.A confusing, misleading, or inaccurate response can be tough for a company to overcome, added Schmiemann, because that can lead to mass hysteria and raise more questions for consumers.
For example, United Airlines faced heat in 2017 after a passenger was forcibly removed from an overbooked flight. The company's CEO at the time, Oscar Munoz, spurred public backlash by labeling the passenger "disruptive" and "belligerent" in his initial recap of the event, which did not include an apology. United later took out a full-page ad in several major US newspapers to apologize to the public."You can't put the genie back in the bottle," Schmiemann said.J&J 'created an industry out of their crisis'If Kenvue is following J&J's handbook, the next phase of its strategy will be multi-pronged and focused on strategies to assure the public of Tylenol's safety.
In 1982, J&J quickly placed ads in major newspapers warning consumers not to buy Tylenol. The company also set up a 1-800 hotline for consumers and established a toll-free line for news outlets to receive pre-taped daily messages with updated statements. A post-crisis study by J&J concluded that more than 90% of the American population had heard of the Chicago deaths within one week.Meanwhile, J&J recalled millions of bottles of Tylenol from store shelves, a costly move. The Defense Department analysis said that before the murders, Tylenol accounted for 19% of J&J's corporate profits during the first three quarters of 1982. The drug was the leading painkiller in the market at the time, commanding 37% of market share and outselling the next four leading painkillers combined, it said.J&J "put actions behind words," Michele Ehrhart, chief marketing and communications officer at the University of Memphis and author of "Crisis Compass: How to Communicate When It Matters Most," told Business Insider.
Later, J&J developed a new seal for Tylenol bottles, inspiring other drug makers to follow its lead. It did so because the murders were the result of someone taking Tylenol from stores, placing cyanide in the capsules, and reshelving them for unsuspecting buyers.J&J "created an industry out of their crisis," said Ehrhart. "That's pretty brilliant."For Kenvue, she added that setting up a consumer hotline isn't necessary. Concerned parents will likely prefer to call their pediatrician. Instead, the company should double down on its message.
"Say what you need to say and keep repeating that until you have more information to share," Ehrhart said. "If this keeps persisting and they want to do more, they could participate in other studies to ensure what they know to be true gets carried out."Ehrhart expects Tylenol to get past this latest turbulence like it did in the 1980s."We're all still taking the product," she said. "It could've been gone, but it's still here. I have a feeling Tylenol is going to weather this one, too."
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account