The first Xbox-branded handhelds are finally up for pre-order, and the price is even higher than expected
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The first Xbox-branded handhelds are finally up for pre-order, and the price is even higher than expected
Image Credit: Microsoft
By
Mahnoor Faisal
Published 5 hours ago
Mahnoor is a News Writer at XDA who has been in the professional writing game since her sophomore year of high school. While pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, she also has bylines esteemed publications like XDA's sister site, MakeUseOf, SlashGear, Laptop Mag, and Android Police.
Whether she's spending hours debugging code or staying up all night to watch a tech event, Mahnoor’s passion for technology is undeniable. She loves writing about all things tech, with a particular focus on iOS and macOS.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Though 2025’s been a big year for gaming handhelds, the year isn’t over yet. One of the most anticipated gaming devices of the year is the Xbox handheld we’ve been hearing rumors about for years. In June 2025, Microsoft confirmed a partnership with ROG to create the Xbox Ally and introduced two new products: the ROG Xbox Ally and the ROG Xbox Ally X. Besides confirming the products and that the gaming handhelds would work with PC game stores, both companies went incredibly light on the details. A couple of weeks ago, ASUS and Microsoft announced that the ROG Xbox Ally X and the ROG Xbox Ally would launch on October 16th in a variety of markets, including the United States, on the same day. However, they left it at the announcement and decided to leave out critical details like pricing, and they didn’t even open preorders for the devices. Well, the day a lot of us have been waiting for is finally here — pre-orders for both devices are now open. This also means that the price for the gaming handhelds has been made official, and, well, they’re even higher than leaks had previously suggested.
ROG Xbox Ally and Ally X pre-orders are open, and you can win some exclusive swag
As announced via a press release, ASUS confirmed today that pre-orders for the ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Xbox Ally X gaming handhelds officially start today. Before we get into the specs, let’s start with what really matters to most people: the price. The ROG Xbox Ally starts at $599.99, while the higher-tier ROG Xbox Ally X will start at a whopping $999.99. As I mentioned in my previous article about the launch date of the Xbox-branded handhelds, leaks had suggested that the Xbox Ally and Xbox Ally X would be priced at $549.99 and $899.99 respectively. Different leaks suggested varying prices, but the official numbers are now confirmed, and both models come in higher than most rumors predicted.
Credit: ASUS
The Xbox Ally packs a powerful AMD Ryzen Z2 A processor, while the higher-tier model is equipped with the AMD Ryzen AI Z2 Extreme processor. ASUS explains that both devices offer "significant gen-on-gen improvements" over the ROG Ally. You can pre-order the ROG Xbox Ally X starting today from the ASUS Shop, Best Buy, or Microsoft. Similarly, the ROG Xbox Ally is available from Amazon, Ant Online, ASUS Shop, Best Buy, Microsoft, and Walmart. If you order through the ASUS Shop between September 25 and October 11, you can also enter a giveaway to win the entire ROG Xbox Ally accessory bundle, valued at over $500. ROG Elite Rewards members who order from the ASUS Shop between September 25 and October 25 can also enter to win a ROG OMNI mascot figurine in either black or white.
Gaming Handhelds
ASUS
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
The Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O.: World Stage closed beta was more of the same, but with a bigger pool of players
1 day ago
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
1 day ago
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
19 hours ago
5 problems you didn't know a CMOS reset could fix
More from our brands
The Best Online Co-Op Games You Can Play On Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
Battlefield 6 Pre-Order Guide: Editions, Prices, Bonuses, And More
The Outer Worlds 2 Pre-Order Guide: Editions, Platforms, And Prices
Ninja Gaiden 4 Pre-Order Guide: Bonus, Editions, And Release Date
The Xbox ROG Ally X is a powerhouse that will live or die by its price tag
How the ROG Xbox Ally's Specs and Rumored Price Compare to the Steam Deck
Xbox ROG Ally Vs. Switch 2 & Steam Deck: Which Handheld Is Right For You
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
34 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
5 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Forget VRAM — these 5 GPU trends are way more disturbing
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
How I use Home Assistant to save $250 on energy per year
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.