Cloud Object Storage – Amazon S3 – Amazon Web Services
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Amazon S3
Overview
Features
Storage classes
Pricing
Security
More
Products›
Storage›
Amazon S3
Start using Amazon S3 for free with the AWS Free Tier
Amazon S3
Object storage built to retrieve any amount of data from anywhere
Sign up
What is Amazon S3?
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Millions of customers of all sizes and industries store, manage, analyze, and protect any amount of data for virtually any use case, such as data lakes, cloud-native applications, and mobile apps. With cost-effective storage classes and easy-to-use management features, you can optimize costs, organize and analyze data, and configure fine-tuned access controls to meet specific business and compliance requirements.
Play
Benefits
Scalability
You can store virtually any amount of data with S3 all the way to exabytes with unmatched performance. S3 is fully elastic, automatically growing and shrinking as you add and remove data. There’s no need to provision storage, and you pay only for what you use.
Durability and availability
Amazon S3 provides the most durable storage in the cloud and industry leading availability. Based on its unique architecture, S3 is designed to provide 99.999999999% (11 nines) data durability and 99.99% availability by default, backed by the strongest SLAs in the cloud.
Security and data protection
Protect your data with unmatched security, data protection, compliance, and access control capabilities. S3 is secure, private, and encrypted by default, and also supports numerous auditing capabilities to monitor access requests to your S3 resources.
Lowest price and highest performance
S3 delivers multiple storage classes with the best price performance for any workload and automated data lifecycle management, so you can store massive amounts of frequently, infrequently, or rarely accessed data in a cost-efficient way. S3 delivers the resiliency, flexibility, latency, and throughput, to ensure storage never limits performance.
Use cases
Data lakes
Backup and restore data
Archive data
Generative AI
Build a data lake
A data lake is a centralized repository that allows you to store all your structured and unstructured data at any scale. You can run data analytics, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and high-performance computing (HPC) applications to unlock the value of your data.
With an Amazon S3 data lake, users in Salesforce’s organization can discover, access, and analyze all their data, regardless of where it lives, in a secure and governed way.
Read the Salesforce case study
Backup and restore critical data
Meet your recovery time objective (RTO), recovery point objective (RPO), and compliance requirements with S3's robust replication functionality, data protection with AWS Backup, and various AWS Partner Network solutions.
Ancestry uses the Amazon S3 Glacier storage classes to restore terabytes of images in mere hours instead of days.
Learn about the Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes
Archive data at the lowest cost
Move data archives to the Amazon S3 Glacier storage classes to lower costs, eliminate operational complexities, and gain new insights.
The BBC, a UK public service broadcaster, safely migrated its 100-year-old flagship archive to Amazon S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval.
View the BBC case study
Put your data to work
Because Amazon S3 stores more than 350 trillion objects (exabytes of data) for virtually any use case and averages over 100 million requests per second, it may be the starting point of your generative AI journey.
Grendene is creating a generative AI-based virtual assistant for their sales team using a data lake built on Amazon S3.
Read the Grendene case study
Customers
Read more from our customers
Industry-leading scalability
“Modernizing the NASCAR technology stack by using AWS Storage is an incredibly monumental step in our overall cloud adoption journey at NASCAR. Migrating all our video, audio, and image libraries to the industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance of Amazon S3 allows us to spend more time developing additional workflows that help our business.” —Chris Wolford, Senior Director of Media and Event Technology, NASCAR Read the NASCAR blog
Read the NASCAR blog
Cost savings
“You think about our 400 percent growth, and that translates into user growth and data growth. Amazon S3 is a massively scalable storage service that we use to serve our growing number of customers worldwide. By optimizing our Amazon S3 usage, we can stretch our IT budgets and extend the impact of our technology.” — Manoj Kalyanaraman, Chief Technology Officer, Dropsuite Read the Dropsuite case study
Read the Dropsuite case study
Seamless integration
“We needed a data repository that could expand dynamically with virtually no maintenance, connect with other AWS services, and meet all our compliance requirements—Amazon S3 was a perfect match.” — Juan Jose Behrend, Director of Engineering, Pomelo Read the Pomelo case study
Read the Pomelo case study
A cornerstone solution
“Amazon S3 is the cornerstone of our solution, and it gives us the durability and reliability we need for storing critical data.” — Andre Sublett, Health Cloud, Learning Factory, and Core Services engineer, GE Healthcare Digital Read GE Healthcare Digital case study
Read GE Healthcare Digital case study
How it works
Amazon S3 stores data as objects within buckets. An object is a file and any metadata that describes the file. A bucket is a container for objects. To store your data in Amazon S3, you first create a bucket and specify a bucket name and AWS Region. Then, you upload your data to that bucket as objects in Amazon S3. Each object has a key (or key name), which is the unique identifier for the object within the bucket.
S3 provides features that you can configure to support your specific use case. For example, you can use S3 Versioning to keep multiple versions of an object in the same bucket, which allows you to restore objects that are accidentally deleted or overwritten. Buckets and the objects in them are private and can only be accessed with explicitly granted access permissions. You can use bucket policies, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies, S3 Access Points, and access control lists (ACLs) to manage access.
Get started
FAQs
Amazon S3 FAQs
Learn more
Getting started
Get started with Amazon S3
Start building
Free tier
Get started with Amazon S3 with AWS Free Tier
Sign up
Features page
Amazon S3 features
Learn more
Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so we can improve the quality of the content on our pages
Yes
No
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.