8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
I test many smart home devices, but I have only a few favorites that I thoroughly recommend. Read on to find out which ones.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 6:21 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Nina Raemont
Eufy Security E340 | My favorite video doorbell
Eufy Security E340
My favorite video doorbell
View now View at Amazon Aqara T2 | My favorite smart bulb
Aqara T2
My favorite smart bulb
View now View at Amazon Kasa Smart Plug Ultra Mini 15A | My favorite smart plug
Kasa Smart Plug Ultra Mini 15A
My favorite smart plug
View now View at Amazon Lockly Visage Zeno Series | My favorite smart lock
Lockly Visage Zeno Series
My favorite smart lock
View now View at Amazon Ting Smart Sensor | My favorite smart home sensor
Ting Smart Sensor
My favorite smart home sensor
View now View at Amazon
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.As a smart home reviewer, I've tested dozens of smart devices. While many of these have flopped, I have a list of favorites that I simply can't let go of. As such, I thoroughly recommend them for anyone looking to expand an established smart home or start setting up one for the first time.Also: How to check for electrical fire hazards at home - and my go-to smart sensor for the taskA smart home setup can sound intimidating for newbies, but I can promise you it's not as hard as it seems -- you'd be surprised at how little is required. As long as you have something that works as a centralized hub (like an Amazon Echo device, an Apple HomePod device, or a Google Hub, for example), you can simply build upon that. Here are my favorite smart home devices.
Eufy Security E340 My favorite video doorbell
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
This is, by far, my favorite video doorbell ever. I've tested many different offerings from different brands, yet I always keep this one on my front door. The reasons I love it so much include the dual cameras, 2K resolution, Delivery Guard to watch your packages, and the fact that it doesn't require you to pay monthly fees to access these features.The Eufy Video Doorbell E340 can be set up with existing wired connections or wirelessly with the built-in rechargeable battery. It has 8 GB of built-in storage, which roughly covers about two months of footage. You can get a HomeBase S380 for expanded local storage and AI features. The HomeBase also works as a chime, but you can use an Echo device as one as well. Eufy also features a Minibase Chime for it, purchased separately. The front-facing camera gives you a full view of visitors at your front door, while the downward-facing camera keeps track of your packages. The doorbell alerts you when a package is delivered, and when you open the live view, you can tap on each package to see what time each one arrived. You can set up the Eufy E340 video doorbell to ring an alarm when someone approaches or picks up your packages, or even alert you if they're left outside past a certain time. Also: This video doorbell camera successfully replaced my Ring with no subscription
Show more
View now at AmazonView now at Crutchfield
Aqara T2 My favorite smart bulb
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
The Aqara T2 E26 is one of the most reliable smart bulbs I've tested. It supports Zigbee and Thread, and is compatible with Matter when you pair it with an Aqara hub. The LED bulb can go up to 1,100 lumens and features a broad spectrum of white shades, from 2,000K to 9,000K. I use my Aqara smart bulb on a lamp in my bedroom, and it turns on at dusk on a schedule. It's also part of my routines so I can ask Siri to turn off all the bedroom lights each night, or say, "Alexa, bedtime."Having tested many brands of smart bulbs, the Aqara stands out because it's dependable. It never randomly disconnects on me, like other smart bulbs do, and hasn't presented me any issues in operation. It's definitely become my favorite because of its consistency.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Kasa Smart Plug Ultra Mini 15A My favorite smart plug
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
As you can see from this photo, I love using the Kasa Smart Plug Ultra Mini 15A for my Christmas tree and holiday lights. This smart plug is perfect to work with different plug-in devices, adding the convenience of automation and remote control. I also use smart plugs for other devices, such as older lamps, fans, and even my flat iron, so I can always make sure I've turned it off from wherever I am. One of the Kasa smart plug's best features is that it's very compact, so it doesn't take up as much space as other popular smart plugs. Its small size means it leaves enough real estate so you can plug in other devices right next to it. This Kasa smart plug is pretty affordable at $10, but you can also buy a four-pack for only $30.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Lockly Visage Zeno Series My favorite smart lock
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
The Lockly Visage Zeno Series is the best smart lock I've tested. It features facial recognition, so it unlocks your door as soon as you come into view, making it much more secure than entering a passcode. Lockly ensures your facial recognition data is encrypted and stored in the smart lock, so it doesn't get sent to cloud servers.And if you still want to use a keycode for entry, this smart lock features Lockly's PIN Genie technology, which scrambles the numbers on the keypad so onlookers can't guess your passcode.This smart lock earned ZDNET's Editor's Choice award for outstanding performance, and also supports Apple Home Key, fingerprint, physical key, and remote unlocking without a hub or subscription. Also: I switched to a Wi-Fi enabled smart lock with facial recognitionThe only problem with this smart lock is that you have to be willing to splurge. It's priced steeply at $350, and it's so good that it rarely goes on sale, though you can save $30 for a limited time on the Lockly website.However, the $350 price tag gets you the best smart lock I've tested and two rechargeable batteries, so you can swap them out when one is drained.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Ting Smart Sensor My favorite smart home sensor
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
The Ting Smart Sensor is such a simple and effective device that I can't help recommending it, especially if you have an older home. You simply plug in your Ting and connect it to the mobile app, then wait some time until your device learns your home's patterns. A Ting sensor can detect scintillations, or miniscule sparks in wiring damaged by construction, old age, or incorrect installation. The sensor detects these early warning signs and alerts you of them so you can correct them before they become a bigger problem, like a tripped breaker or a fire. Aside from giving me insights into my home's electrical safety, I also love the Ting device because it alerts me immediately when there is an outage and gives me valuable insights on nearby outages and risks for them. I have a full EcoFlow home backup system, yet the Ting app is much quicker at sending me outage notifications than the EcoFlow app. When I've been out of town and checking on my home, Ting notifies me if there's a severe thunderstorm warning that could affect our power, and shows me a detailed history of when the power went out and when it was restored.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Why should you trust me?
I'm a smart home tech reviewer who covers a lot of devices that automate daily tasks, including robot vacuums, robot mowers, and other smart device categories. Notably, not all of these devices are worth your hard-earned money, so I only recommend the ones I've tested that have proven to meet or exceed expectations. For this story, I chose only the smart home devices that have become my personal favorites, especially having tested dozens of these types of gadgets.
Show more
What is a smart home hub?
A smart home hub is the central command center for your smart devices. Smart home hubs connect to your network either via Wi-Fi or ethernet and then connect to multiple smart home devices via other connectivity protocols, like Matter, Thread, Zigbee, or Z-Wave.You could connect 20 smart bulbs to your Wi-Fi network, which may slow it down due to congestion. With a smart home hub, you can connect the single hub to your Wi-Fi, then connect the 20 smart bulbs to the hub via Zigbee.Having a smart home hub also potentially means local control for your smart devices, depending on the hub, so you could still control your smart home devices even if your internet connection goes down.
Show more
Do you need a hub for a smart home?
A hub isn't always required for a smart home setup, but having one ensures your different devices are able to communicate with each other without congesting your Wi-Fi network. Many smart devices work without a hub and connect directly to your Wi-Fi, like the Lockly Visage Zeno Series smart lock, while others let you use a hub to connect to, like the Aqara T2 smart bulb.
Show more
Other smart home tech we think you'd love
FAVORITE HUB FOR VOICE CONTROL Echo Show 8 The Echo Show 8 is a good hub for those setting up a smart home, especially if you're looking for voice control. This smart display comes with Amazon Alexa built-in, but it also works as a smart home hub with Zigbee, Matter, and Thread support.
View at Amazon
FAVORITE ROBOT VACUUM Matic Robot If you're looking for the robot vacuum that outperforms all robot vacuums on the market, the Matic is the best choice.
View at Maticrobots
FAVORITE SECURITY CAMERAS EufyCam S3 Pro If you're looking for a reliable set of security cameras to go with the Eufy Security E340 video doorbell, the Eufycam S3 Pro bundle with the HomeBase 3 will round up your home security nicely.
View at Amazon
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
10+ Alexa commands that every Echo user should be using ASAP
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
How to check for electrical fire hazards at home - and my go-to smart sensor for the task
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use