The 3 charging mistakes quietly damaging your tablet - and what to do instead | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
The 3 charging mistakes quietly damaging your tablet - and what to do instead
Your tablet's reliability starts with its battery, and treating it right to keep it running strong.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 6:12 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysUnplug at 100%, keep battery between 20% and 80%.Avoid draining to 0%; store unused tablets at 50%.Use certified chargers to prevent stress and overheating.As someone who uses a tablet daily, I'm constantly looking for ways to make its battery last longer. However, some habits you don't think twice about could actually be hurting your battery over time. There are ways to extend your tablet's battery life, and there are some things you should avoid that do the opposite.Also: Samsung's new flagship Galaxy tablets are the iPad Pro for Android fans - but something's missingMost tablets offer six to eight hours of use on a single charge, though battery life diminishes with age and continued use. While there are many things you can do to conserve battery life, here are the ones you should avoid to ensure your battery's longevity.
1. Leaving your tablet plugged in overnight This isn't always a problem with newer tablets, but most tablets on the market will suffer from being left plugged in overnight. Tablets typically charge to 100% and stop using electricity. However, leaving your tablet plugged in can cause it to continue trickle-charging to keep the battery full, which can stress the battery over time and diminish its lifespan.
Instead, unplug your tablet when its battery reaches 100%. As a rule of thumb, it's best to keep your battery charged between 20% and 80%.
Also: These 7 common household items were draining power all day - until I pulled the plugLike all the common charging mistakes we make with our tablets, leaving it plugged in overnight once or twice won't permanently damage it. Battery damage happens when these incorrect practices become a habit and are followed often.
2. Letting the battery drain to 0% (and forgetting it)
Maria Diaz/ZDNETI've been guilty of letting my tablet's battery drain to 0% only to set it aside and forget to charge it for a couple of days. Repeatedly letting your battery drain to 0% makes it age much faster, risking battery death, requiring a replacement or repair to revive it.
I've unfortunately learned this the hard way after leaving my discharged Nintendo Switch Lite in a drawer for a couple of months, only to learn that its battery had been irreparably damaged.
Lithium-ion batteries are simply not meant to stay empty, so most tablets don't truly hit 0% when they shut down. Instead, they shut down with a little charge to protect the battery, which is why a low-battery screen appears when you try to turn them on. If you leave your tablet with a drained battery for days, weeks, or months, the battery keeps slowly discharging until the voltage drops too low, damaging the battery's internal chemistry.
Also: 8 reasons why I replaced my Kindle with an iPad Mini for reading ebooksRepeatedly doing this results in a battery that is less capable of holding a charge or, worse, incapable of recharging altogether.
To prevent this and prolong your battery's life, avoid letting the battery drop below 20%. If you won't use your tablet for some time, charge it to 50% capacity and shut it down before storing it.
3. Using the wrong charger Your local dollar store may be a good spot to get party and craft supplies, but not electronics. No matter how enticing the idea of buying a $1 charger seems, it's probably best to avoid it. Using a cheap, non-certified, or incorrect charger for your tablet can deliver inconsistent power, overcharge it, or result in inefficient charging. All of these result in increased strain on your battery and a shorter lifespan.
Using the wrong charger on your battery can do more than simply prolong its charging time. If a charger's wattage isn't properly matched to the battery, it can overheat your device as it struggles to supply enough power, or even overload the tablet's circuits if it can't regulate the power draw. Cheap chargers can also deliver fluctuating voltage, which stresses the battery and wears out its chemistry.
Also: I gave iPadOS 26 a full summer trial - my verdict on using it as a MacBook alternativeMany certified chargers, like Apple-certified or USB-PD ones, have built-in safety measures that off-brand and cheap chargers skip. These measures prevent surges and overheating that could damage the battery and charging port.
When charging your tablet, it's best to look for a charger that is either certified or properly matched for your device, from the cable to the brick.
FAQs
What is trickle charging?
Trickle charging happens when your smartphone or tablet charges fully but remains plugged in, getting small amounts of electricity to keep its battery at 100%. If you plug in your tablet each night and it reaches 100%, its battery will lose a little charge over the course of the night, which triggers the charger to kick in to top it back up. Keeping lithium-ion batteries charged at 100% for long periods can stress them and accelerate wear, especially if it becomes warm.Also: Why your USB-C device won't charge - and what you can do insteadThis is why many smartphone manufacturers have added a slow charging feature when a device is plugged in overnight. Instead of quickly charging your battery to 100% and then topping it off for the rest of the night, your smartphone or tablet may take a few hours to reach 100%, closer to the morning. This extends the device's battery lifespan.
Show more
What is a battery's chemical aging?
Chemical aging is a term used for the normal wear and tear that happens in a lithium-ion battery as it goes through repeated charging and discharging cycles. Over time, the chemical reactions that happen inside lithium-ion batteries used in smartphones and tablets become less efficient, resulting in reduced capacity and risks of slower performance -- this is called chemical aging.Also: The best Android tablets of 2025: Expert tested and reviewedThere's no way to avoid chemical aging; it's simply the way lithium-ion batteries age, but you can slow it down. Chemical aging is sped up by doing what is outlined above, like plugging in your device overnight, letting the battery drop to 0% often, using cheap chargers, and exposing the device to heat.
Show more
Stay ahead of the latest tech tips with Tech Today, delivered to your inbox every morning. Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system
Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost
Changing these 12 settings on my Android phone extended its battery life by hours
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use