5 must-use extensions for Raycast
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
5 must-use extensions for Raycast
By
Ayush Pande
Published 6 days ago
Ayush Pande is a PC hardware and gaming writer. When he's not working on a new article, you can find him with his head stuck inside a PC or tinkering with a server operating system. Besides computing, his interests include spending hours in long RPGs, yelling at his friends in co-op games, and practicing guitar.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Ever since I got my MacBook earlier this year, I’ve been experimenting with different apps and tools that I could never run on my Windows, Linux, and even Hackintosh setups. This includes everything from the macOS-exclusive Affinity software stack to macOS’ new containerization platform with the unimaginative name of Apple Container. But among an arsenal of productivity-oriented macOS applications, Raycast stands out from its rivals. Rather than providing killer note-taking provisions or making my coding misadventures easier, it’s an application launcher that makes accessing other apps and services a breeze. With the Windows version of Raycast on the horizon, I recently decided to give the app a shot. And now that I've become a newly converted acolyte of Raycast, here are some neat extensions that have made my macOS life a lot easier.
Brew
For folks who love package managers
I’ve been using package managers on Windows and Linux for years, and Homebrew scratches that itch on macOS. Thanks to Homebrew, I can type a one-line command inside the terminal to install my favorite open-source applications instead of going through a barrage of windows inside the App Store or configuring .DMG files. Better yet, the Brew extension inside Raycast makes it easy to manage my Homebrew apps from a sleek menu-based UI. It can search for outdated packages, update them, clean up unused files, and even browse (and install) the thousands of services, libraries, and tools available on the Homebrew repository.
Image Modification
Perfect for quick image tweaks
Besides writing multiple pages in a day, my work also involves capturing screenshots and images as well as editing them. While I prefer using Darktable for light touch-ups and heavily modded GIMP for complex edits, there are times when I simply need to tweak the image resolution or convert it into a different format. The Image Modification extension on Raycast is ideal for the job. On the image transformation front, it can flip, rotate, scale, and resize my screenshots with the press of a button. It supports image padding, can apply a couple of filters, optimize their file sizes, and even remove the backgrounds from photos.
Obsidian
Combine the king of note-taking apps with Raycast
Despite the sheer number of note-taking utilities out there, Obsidian is often considered the crème de la crème for keeping track of your ideas. In addition to its simple UI, Obsidian supports the ultra-useful Markdown format and stores files locally rather than locking them behind company servers. Throw in the vast number of plug-ins and the ability to create a second brain for your ideas using interconnected notes, and it’s clear why many users (including yours truly) adore Obsidian. What’s more, you can integrate Obsidian into Raycast using a dedicated extension. It’s great for creating new notes and jotting down your ideas in a hurry, and lets you access bookmarked documents quickly. Likewise, the Obsidian extension can append new tasks to your daily notes, search for pre-existing documents, and manage your vault of ideas with a simple shortcut.
Docker
Ideal for self-hosting workloads
If you’re even remotely into the self-hosting ecosystem, you’ve definitely heard of Docker. As the most popular container runtime in the home lab community, Docker is simple enough for beginners while including all the features a tinkering maestro will ever need. The Docker Desktop app on macOS ships with the Docker Engine, CLI, and Compose plugin, making it quite handy regardless of your skill level. Plus, Raycast supports a Docker extension to simplify your containerization tasks. Not only does it let you control your containers, but it can also use images to spin up new containerized environments. Likewise, the Docker extension can even help manage Docker Compose projects, which is a neat facility when you rely on these config files as much as I do.
Bitwarden Vault
It even works with Vaultwarden
Capable of storing all your passkeys, API codes, private documents, and TOTP tokens inside a protected environment, password managers are a must-have tool for practically every type of user. Depending on your setup and your knack for self-hosting, you can go for cloud-based platforms or deploy local containers to safeguard your hard-to-remember passwords. Bitwarden is one of the more popular tools for managing passwords, and the Bitwarden Vault extension lets you access your treasure trove of private information with a single key combination. It can also share your passwords with other users, and can generate alphanumeric passkeys in an instant. What’s more, Bitwarden Vault can even connect your Mac with a self-hosted Vaultwarden instance, which is precisely how I manage my passwords.
Raycast is chock-full of useful extensions
The Raycast store houses a plethora of productivity-oriented, QoL-enhancing extensions that deserve a mention. If you’re into coding, the VS Code, Format JSON, GitHub Repos, and GitHub Copilot extensions are worth installing, while Home Assistant lets you control your smart gadgets and IoT paraphernalia using the Raycast launcher. Video Downloader is another neat extension if you prefer to save your favorite clips from YouTube, Twitch, Twitter, and other platforms. There’s the Tailscale extension, which makes managing tailnets a breeze on macOS. And the list goes on.
Software and Services
macOS
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
7 days ago
I replaced Mealie with this open-source recipe management tool and couldn’t be happier
Sep 16, 2025
4 NotebookLM power user secrets you didn't know about
6 days ago
Microsoft really, really wants you to use the new Outlook client already
7 days ago
I always play these 4 game franchises on PlayStation over Xbox consoles, and it's better that way
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This free Chrome extension solves NotebookLM’s most annoying limitation
This triple-A open-world FPS with 87% positive reviews is just $4.49 on Steam for a limited time
RDMA is one of the fastest ways to share files from your NAS, these are 6 reasons why you don't need it
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.