Review: Aldi Diet Coke Is a Dupe for McDonald's Diet Coke
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
GETTY IMAGES, TASTE OF HOME
Home
News
Grocery Stores
Is Aldi’s Diet Cola Really a Dupe for McDonald’s Diet Coke?
GETTY IMAGES, TASTE OF HOME
By
Hayley Schueneman
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 19, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
McDonald's Diet Coke has long had a reputation for being the best, so does Aldi's Diet Cola even compete?
If you ever meet me in person, chances are that I will mention Aldi within the first five minutes of conversation. I mean, how could I not? It makes my favorite freezer meal and my favorite condiment. And that’s not even counting all of the goodies I’ve picked up walking down “The Danger Aisle”—you know, the one where all the Aldi Finds live.
Despite my love for the chain, there is one aisle I’ve never been interested in: the one with Aldi’s house brand sodas. If the Aldi Finds aisle is my kryptonite, then the tonic is the beverage aisle (pun very much intended). Sure, call me a snob, but I prefer a Diet Coke over any store’s house brand version. Call me a sucker for marketing and branding—I don’t care. Diet Coke is life.
I was curious, though, when I started to see chatter online about Aldi’s Diet Cola being a dupe for the king of all Diet Cokes: a McDonald’s Diet Coke. Well, I scoffed, this certainly can’t be possible. Aiming to prove the internet wrong, I went and bought a case of the Summit Diet Cola.
Is Aldi’s diet cola a dupe for a McDonald’s Diet Coke?
HAYLEY SCHUENEMAN FOR TASTE OF HOME
Generic sodas are nothing new. Brands take well-known products and try to imitate them at a lower cost—both visually and in terms of taste. The result is often just fine. In this case, the packaging for Aldi Diet Cola is freakishly akin to that of a Diet Coke: It’s a light silver can with red lettering.
But when I took a sip of the Aldi diet cola, I was immediately blown away. I actually said, “Wow!” and then took a second sip just to make sure I wasn’t hallucinating. Yes, this generic cola is good. And not just good, it tastes better than a can of Diet Coke. My first impression was that it tasted like someone had canned a McDonald’s fountain Diet Coke.
Real Diet Coke fans know that what sets the McDonald’s version apart is an unmistakable, almost proprietary balance of flavor and carbonation that you usually can’t get anywhere else. So, I decided to take my testing up a notch. I poured a can over ice, and drank it with a straw. It was perfection.
I am convinced that if you poured the Aldi Diet Cola into a McDonald’s cup, I wouldn’t know the difference. Consider me impressed yet again by Aldi, because I will now be buying its Summit Diet Cola in bulk. It really is a super dupe for McDonald’s Diet Coke!
Related:
Aldi Just Dropped Everything You Need to Make Sourdough Like Taylor Swift
I Tried the New Popeyes x Hot Ones Menu—Here’s How Spicy It Really Is
Coke Zero vs. Diet Coke: What’s the Difference?
Author
Hayley Schueneman
Hayley Schueneman (she/her) is an editor and writer for Taste of Home. She's loved all things food for as long as she can remember. Hayley has worked in media, marketing, food service and as a supervisor at Whole Foods, where a customer once threw a bag of quinoa at her head. (Don't worry, she still loves quinoa.) Her areas of expertise include veg...
Read More
Tyler Smith
Home cook and dad of two, Tyler shares recipes as @girldadskitchen. Fans love his over-the-top inventions.
Ribs
Tyler Smith’s Party Ribs
Pasta
Tyler Smith’s Cheesy Italian Shells
Burgers
Tyler Smith’s Smash Burgers
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box