Best Tech Gifts Under $100 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Gift Guide Tech
30 of the Best Tech Gifts Under $100 for 2025
Spend a little extra this year with these awesome tech gifts under $100. All are reviewed or tested by our experts at CNET, so you know they're good.
Article updated on Dec 22, 2024
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Written by David Carnoy
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Best audio gifts under $100
Speakers
Ultimate Ears Miniroll UE used to make a discus-like speaker called the Roll that floated in water. That model was discontinued but the new Miniroll is even more compact and delivers impressive sound for its size, putting out a little more bass than you'd expect. With up to 12 hours of battery at moderate volume levels, the speaker has a built-in strap that allows you to hook it onto anything from a branch to your bike's handlebars to the shoulder strap on your backpack.It's fully waterproof with an IP67 rating and has a Bluetooth range of up to 40 meters. It's also dust-resistant. While you can link up multiple Minirolls in PartyUp mode, I think most people would be happy with just one. It's one of the best-sounding micro Bluetooth speakers out there, and an excellent tech gift under $100 for anyone. Full Review.
$59 at Amazon
Close
JBL Vibe Beam wireless earbuds Experience powerful JBL Deep Bass Sound with the Vibe Beam true wireless earbuds, designed for all-day comfort and an immersive listening experience. Enjoy up to 32 hours of playback (eight hours in the earbuds, 24 in the case) and a quick 10-minute charge for two extra hours. Stay in the moment with Smart Ambient features -- TalkThru for quick conversations and Ambient Aware to stay connected to your surroundings. Perfect for workouts or daily adventures, the IP54 water and dust resistance keeps up with your lifestyle. Customize your sound with the JBL Headphones App and take crystal-clear calls with VoiceAware. Ready to elevate your sound?
$25 at JBL
Close
Speakers
Soundcore Motion 300 Bose makes its excellent SoundLink Flex Bluetooth speaker that sells for around $150 and sometimes goes on sale for less. The Soundcore Motion 300 is Anker's answer to that Bose speaker. Around the same size as the Bose, it doesn't sound quite as good, but it sounds impressive for its compact size and lists for only $80 (it's been on sale for as low as $55). Like the SoundLink Flex, it can be laid down flat with its speaker firing up toward the ceiling or propped up as shown in the photo above. It's IPX7 waterproof and delivers up to 13 hours of audio at moderate volume levels. There's also support for Sony's LDAC audio codec for Android and other devices that support Bluetooth wireless streaming with LDAC. The speaker has a bass boost button that does amp up the low-end a bit. But I actually thought the speaker sounded a little better without the bass-boost engaged because the speaker seemed slightly overdriven with the boost. Currently, there is an Amazon coupon available to give you $15 off this smart speaker. Read our Soundcore Motion 300 review.
$60 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Sony CH-720N Sony's CH-720N noise-canceling headphones list for $150, but sometimes you can find them for less than $100. They have a plasticky budget vibe, but are lightweight and comfortable. Part of me was expecting them to sound mediocre, but I was pleasantly surprised. No, they don't sound as good as Sony's flagship WH-1000XM5s, but their overall performance is a step up from their predecessor, the CH-710Ns. Read our Sony CH-720N review.
$95 at Walmart
$180 at Best Buy
$178 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Best outdoors tech gifts under $100
Fire Pits
Solo Stove Mesa XL Solo Stove makes some of the best smokeless fire pits, including the Ranger 2.0 (small), Bonfire 2.0 (medium) and Yukon 2.0 (large) fire pits. But if you're looking for something a little smaller, it also makes two mini fire pits: the Mesa and Mesa XL. Both come in several colors, including traditional stainless steel. I started off using the smaller Mesa, but when the Mesa XL was released, I found myself gravitating to the larger version of the mini fire pit (pictured on the left) because it looks and feels a little more substantial while remaining compact. (As you might expect, it does produce a bigger fire with a heat radius of 2 to 3 feet compared with the Mesa's 1 to 2 feet.) As its name implies, the Mesa XL is designed to sit on a tabletop and is portable. Naturally, you could also set it on the ground, but when you put it on a table, it's at a good height for roasting marshmallows. It has the same 360-degree Signature Airflow system as Solo Stove's larger fire pits.
$100 at Solo Stove
$100 at Best Buy
Close
Misc
BioLite HeadLamp 800 BioLite makes several different headlamps, with the BioLite HeadLamp 800 being its brightest model at 800 lumens. It's equipped with front and back lights (the front light swivels) that offer eight different lighting modes. It's good for a variety of settings, whether you're working in a dark environment or just walking your dog or riding a bike at night. The battery is rechargeable via a Micro-USB connection (I do wish it were USB-C).Note that the step-down HeadLamp 425 costs $45, while the HeadLamp 325 is $37.
$120 at Amazon
$120 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Tech
BioLite Alpenglow 500 BioLite has several portable lighting options, and the Alpenglow 500 is one of its more recent additions. It's a portable lantern that has multiple modes and color options. As its name implies, it delivers 500 lumens, and it is indeed pretty bright.The step-down Alpenglow 250 offers 250 lumens for $15 less. Both are rated for 5 hours of battery life on the high setting and up to 200 hours on the low setting.
$80 at Amazon
$80 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Best home tech gifts under $100
Small kitchen appliances
Ninja Blast There are more affordable portable blenders, like the Blendjet 2 and the Hamilton Beach Single-Serve, but the Ninja Blast, which lists for $60, is a step up from those models. It looks and feels more premium, and though it isn't super powerful, it's a good option for making smoothies and protein shakes on the go or at home when you don't want to deal with a full-size blender. Additionally, you can drink right from the blender, as it has a leakproof sip lid. Available in multiple colors and easy to operate, it has an 18-ounce capacity and recharges via USB-C.
$60 at Amazon
$60 at Best Buy
Close
Media Streamers
Roku Streambar SE Roku discontinued its larger Streambar Pro speaker, but it's now selling a new mini soundbar, the Streambar SE, that has a 4K Roku video streamer built into it. While it doesn't offer the greatest sound -- it can only output so much bass -- the speaker is quite compact and produces better sound than you'd think given its size. It's particularly strong in the midrange, producing loud, clear dialogue, and it delivers better sound than what you get from most TV speakers (by that I mean the speakers built into your TV). This is really designed to go with a smaller TV that's in your bedroom, home office, or dorm room, and not your main living room TV (unless you have a very small living room).
$90 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$100 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Portable speakers
Amazon Echo Spot (2nd generation) Like its predecessor, the 2nd-gen Echo Spot has a touchscreen and displays a variety of custom-designed clock faces. It's also Alexa-enabled, allowing you to use your voice to set alarms, access the weather, play music tracks and issue commands to your Alexa smart home products. Along with improved audio quality (it has a 1.73-inch front-firing directional speaker that puts out more bass and clearer audio), the new Echo Spot has a bigger, bezel-less screen. But it's closer to a semicircle than the fully circular screen on the original. Animations and clock faces are displayed crisply. It also displays album art when you listen to music on Spotify, but it's not that sharp.Unlike the original, there's no integrated camera, so you can't make video calls, which is probably a good thing if you're concerned about privacy. You can also ask Alexa to call loved ones, make household announcements, audibly drop in on other Alexa-enabled devices in your household or get alerts and audio from your compatible smart doorbell. It's a nice smart alarm clock that sounds decent for how small it is.
$80 at Amazon
Close
Smart Home
Amazon Smart Thermostat Amazon's Smart Thermostat sets a new standard for the category. It has a clean, modern touchscreen design, and it's easy to use, whether you're adjusting the temperature at the thermostat, through the Alexa app or with Alexa voice commands with a compatible Alexa-enabled speaker or display. It earned a CNET Editors' Choice award for best value smart thermostat. Read our Amazon Smart Thermostat review.
$80 at Amazon
$80 at Best Buy
$80 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Blenders
NutriBullet Blender 1200 NutriBullet keeps it simple with three power levels, a pulse setting and 1,200 watts of power. It performed well in all of our tests. Smooth batters, finely crushed ice, green smoothies, hot soup and good grated cheese (our torture test) were all easy to achieve. A reasonable price tag means you won't have to break the bank to get a good blender.The 64-ounce blending jar is plenty big enough for most recipes. The personal blender comes with a handy recipe book and a tamper to make sure all your ingredients contact the blades. The NutriBullet blender jar is also dishwasher-safe and comes with a one-year warranty. Simple, powerful and consistent, the NutriBullet is one of the best moderately priced blenders on the market right now.
$77 at Amazon
$77 at Walmart
$115 at Best Buy
Close
Smart Home
Google Nest Hub (2nd gen) There are plenty of great Alexa-powered Echo products, but in this price range, we're still fans of the Google Nest Hub (2nd gen), which has been around for a few years but is a good value when it gets discounted. The upgraded smart display delivers more bass along with a new Sleep Sensing feature. It also gives you instant access to a world of answers whenever you say, "Hey, Google," and allows you to cast content directly to the screen from any Android device.
$100 at Crutchfield
Close
Media Streamers
Roku Ultra The Roku Ultra has always been a fine 4K HDR streamer. As the flagship in Roku's extensive line of sticks and players, its bag of nifty tricks includes a remote finder and a remote with programmable remote buttons. This version adds better Wi-Fi, a faster processor and the ability to stream in Dolby Vision -- a long-awaited feature that allows it to better compete with the best streamers from Amazon, Apple and Google. Yes, the Roku Express 4K Plus, which costs around $25, is a better value, but the upgraded Ultra is often on sale these days for $80 (it lists for $100) and it has an Ethernet port for those who want to go with a wired connection.
$83 at Amazon
$100 at Roku
$50 at Best Buy
Close
Best mobile and gaming gifts under $100
Keyboards
Logitech Keys-To-Go 2 Logitech makes a variety of wireless keyboards, but its Keys-to-Go carries the distinction of being the company's thinnest and lightest Bluetooth keyboard. It isn't as slim as its predecessor, though it has a better typing experience with real scissor keys and a built-in protective cover that folds back and slips under the keyboard when you're ready to go to work. Multi-OS compatible, the Keys-to-Go-2 is available in lilac, pale grey and graphite for $65-80.While I can't say the typing experience is as good as Logitech's MX Keys Mini -- and the keyboard may be a bit cramped for folks with larger hands -- it's one of the best typing experiences you'll get from an ultraportable keyboard. In other words, keep your expectations in check (which is admittedly harder to do when you're dealing with an $80 keyboard).  The original Keys-to-Go only worked with one device at a time, but this model, like Logitech's other recent keyboards, allows you to connect to three devices simultaneously. You can jump between devices using the Easy-Switch keys on the top left of the keyboard. The Keys-to-Go 2 isn't rechargeable, but Logitech says its replaceable coin cell batteries can give you up to three years of battery life. Read our Logitech Keys-To-Go 2 review.
$65 at Amazon
$80 at Best Buy
$80 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Computer Accessories
Twelve South HoverBar Duo Twelve South's HoverBar Duo is a flexible stand for iPads and other tablets that has a weighted base and an articulating arm to adjust the angle and height of your device. You can also remove the HoverBar from its base and clip it to a bar or shelf using the shelf clip. The second-gen model has a quick-release design, but the first-gen model is about $20 cheaper at around $65.If you're looking for a way to use your iPad in the kitchen, as a second monitor or as a videoconferencing display, the HoverBar Duo is a nice accessory and makes a great gift for all those iPad owners out there.
$80 at Amazon
$80 at Apple
$80 at Best Buy
Close
Mobile Accessories
Anker 622 MagGo magnetic battery What's cool about Anker's 622 magnetic battery is that it's a wireless battery that has an integrated magnetic flap that converts into a stand. You won't get fast wireless charging from this 5,000 mAh battery (it charges at up to 7.5 watts) but it's slim and easy to carry around. It charges via USB-C, and if you use a USB-C-to-Lightning cord to charge your iPhone, it will charge at a faster rate of 12 watts. That's not as fast as what a 20-watt USB-C power adapter can deliver, but it's faster than 7.5 watts.Note that Anker has updated this model to move the charging port to the side (from the bottom), so you can charge it while using it as a stand. That's a worthy upgrade worth the $5 premium versus the old version (which confusingly retains the same 622 model number).
$40 at Amazon
Close
Computer Accessories
RiotPWR RP1950 I previously had the RiotPWR Mobile Cloud Gaming Controller for iOS, but it had one flaw. Because it had an integrated Lightning cable that allows for lag-free gaming -- at least when it comes to button presses -- you couldn't use it with newer iPads or iPhones that have a USB-C connection. The new RiotPWR RP1950 controller solves that problem by allowing you to swap out the Lightning cable module for a USB-C cable module. Like RiotPWR's earlier iOS controller, which is white, the black RP1950 is a more traditionally shaped Xbox-like controller that includes a mount for your phone. While there's no built-in battery that keeps your phone charged while playing, like the Backbone and Razer Kishi V2, this model has a pass-through charging option if you want to hook up a separate Lightning cable to a battery pack or wall charger.The controller is nicely designed and doesn't feel cheap (the dock can accommodate a variety of iPhones, including larger iPhone Max models). Remove the dock and you can use this with any iPad that has a Lightning or USB-C port. To swap cables, you have to stick a paper clip in a hole in the bottom of the controller, which releases the cable module. It's a little tricky the first time you do it, but once you figure out how it's done, it's pretty straightforward.It's also worth noting that even though this is called an "iOS controller," it will work with Android smartphones and tablets that have USB-C ports.
$40 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
HyperX Cloud 3 HyperX makes several gaming headsets, and most of them are quite good. But over the years, the models I tend to gravitate toward are in its Cloud line, including the Cloud 3. Not only is this a very solid performing wired gaming headset, but it's comfortable to wear and doesn't cost too much (a wireless version of the same headset costs about $125 or $50 more). Since this is a wired model, it works with a variety of platforms and can be plugged into PS5 and Xbox Series X/S controllers along with PCs and anything else that has a headphone port. The microphone is detachable.
$78 at Amazon
$20 at Walmart
$78 at Best Buy
Close
Mobile Accessories
Backbone One We liked this Lightning-connected controller from startup Backbone when it first came out in its original black version. You can still get that model, but it now comes in a white PlayStation version for use with the PS Remote Play app.Like the Razer Kishi, it turns any iPhone 6S or later into a Nintendo Switch-style gaming experience, with added smarts for social and chatty gamers. Like the Kishi, it connects via Lightning with pass-through charging but has no built-in battery. While the Kishi V2 is now more Backbone-like in its design (with better ergonomics) the Backbone controller still holds an advantage in the software department with a superior companion app.
$100 at Amazon
Close
Best computer accessories under $100
Tech
OWC Envoy Pro Mini Other World Computing (OWC) makes a variety of computer accessories, many of them geared toward Apple users. While its Envoy Mini Pro pocket SSD can be formatted for use with both Macs and Windows PCs (ExFAT), it's really optimized for use with Macs (you choose how to format the drive when you plug it into your computer for the first time). It features both USB-C and USB-A connectivity and has a nifty design that's a more sophisticated take on your typical thumbdrive. The 500GB version with transfer speeds of up to 946 MB/s costs a little less than $100 while the 1TB version is closer to $145. You can find mini SSDs that cost less but many of those offer slower transfer speeds.
$95 at Amazon
Close
Mice
Logitech MX Anywhere 3S As is typical for a Logitech "S" product update, the compact MX Anywhere 3S wireless "mobile" mouse doesn't look any different from its predecessor. It offers some performance upgrades, notably quieter operation and an upgraded 8,000 DPI optical sensor that Logitech says tracks on most surfaces including glass and offers faster workflow with high-resolution monitors. While those with larger hands may prefer something a little bigger, the MX Anywhere 3S is an excellent mouse for both at-home and travel use. It comes in three colors.  Read our Logitech MX Master 3 first take.
$65 at Walmart
Close
Misc
Huano Magno Module Magnetic Laptop Stand Huano's Magno Module Magentic Laptop Stand folds flat into a slim package that you can slip into a backpack or laptop bag. There are four pieces to it: a wrist rest, magnetic iPhone stand, laptop stand and the base itself, which everything else sticks to thanks to the various integrated magnets. To get the stand to sit at various angles, it's a bit of an origami puzzle, but I eventually settled on a set-up I liked. You can also configure the stand to accommodate a tablet. A carry pouch is included.
$50 at Amazon
Close
Home
Anker 735 3-Port GaNPrime 65W USB-C charger Anker's upgraded compact charger can charge a MacBook Pro 13 at full speed. Not only is it small for how much power it can deliver (it has foldable prongs), but it also has three ports (two USB-C and one USB-A) that allow you to charge multiple devices at the same time. Be aware that power is split between the ports if you charge more than one device. It uses the next-generation GaN 3 technology.
$26 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
Close
Computer Accessories
Creative Labs Pebble X Creative Labs' Pebble speakers have long been a top budget pick for PC speakers. The entry-level model is on its third generation, aka V3 (see below), and costs $35, while earlier versions can be had for even less. They aren't the greatest-sounding PC speakers, but people like them because their sound is bigger than their price. Creative stepped up its game with the new-for-2024 Pebble X USB-C speakers ($90). They also offer a  Pebble X Plus version, which includes a mini subwoofer for $110. These speakers are larger than previous Pebble models but still compact enough to fit in a backpack. The sound quality is surprisingly good, making them possibly the best PC speakers available for under $100. Read our Creative Labs Pebble X review.
$90 at Amazon
Close
Keyboards
Logitech MX Keys Mini Logitech's MX Keys is one of our favorite everyday Bluetooth keyboards, and now it comes in two smaller versions that leave off the number pad and some other keys: MX Keys Mini and MX Keys Mini for Mac. Both cost around the same price as the standard MX Keys. Colors include rose, pale gray and graphite.  Read our Logitech MX Keys first take.
$90 at Amazon
$100 at Walmart
$100 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Best personal care tech gifts
Dental Care
Oral B iO Series 5 This Oral-B electric toothbrush is similar to other Oral-B brushes, except the bristles on this brush felt softer than the step-up Oral-B Pro 1000. That's a big bonus for anyone with sensitive gums, as is the real-time coaching that tells you if you're brushing too hard. The Oral-B iO also has a quieter motor compared with the Pro 1000. The display offers an impressive amount of information. Based on the lit-up icon, you can easily tell what mode you're brushing in. The iO has five brush modes, whereas most electric toothbrushes have three or four. You can choose from daily clean, intense clean, whitening, sensitive and super sensitive. The Oral-B iO Series is also ADA-accepted.
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$120 at Target
Close
Tech
Wush Pro by Black Wolf A while back, I took my kid to the doctor because he had a bunch of earwax built up in his ear and was having trouble hearing (yes, gross). The doctor was able to dislodge it with a pressurized stream of water, which is exactly what devices like the Wush Pro by Black Wolf deliver. Designed to be used in the shower, the Wush Pro does indeed work to remove earwax buildup. For people who have sensitive ears, it can be a little disconcerting to use at first, but read the instructions carefully and start at a lower setting before ramping things up (there are three pressure settings, and the Wush is equipped with a rechargeable battery). The pump inside does make some noise and is a little irritating, but it's tolerable and beats a visit to the doctor.
$45 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Philips Norelco Compact Travel Shaver The Philips Norelco Compact Travel Shaver isn't the most powerful electric shaver but it fits in your pocket, is nicely designed, has floating heads, long battery life and can be used dry or wet -- including in the shower. I wouldn't use this as my everyday razor (electric razors aren't great for those with sensitive skin), but as Philips says, it's good for touch ups on the go. My only complaint is that I wish it recharged with a USB-C cable instead of Philips' proprietary charging cable, but at least it doesn't require frequent charging.
$70 at Amazon
$70 at Best Buy
$70 at Target
Close
Tech
Panasonic ER-GK80 Body Groomer Whoever you're getting this for may be a little embarrassed, but will most likely appreciate it in the end. Panasonic says this groomer has a unique V-shaped head that's "built to go everywhere" -- and with precision. It comes with two attachments, has almost 2 hours of battery life, and can be used wet or dry. A travel case is included. It's an excellent manscaping device.The list price recently crept above $100, but we left it on this list as a bonus pick because it costs just a little more than $100.
$120 at Amazon
Close
More gift ideasBest Gaming Gifts for 202466 Best Star Wars Gifts: Top Picks From Across the Galaxy22 Great Gifts for $50 or LessBest Gifts and Gadgets That Cost $30 or LessBest Gifts Under $200 for 2024
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Gifts Available on Amazon for 2025: From $10 to $250
By
James Bricknell
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Don't Forget Grandma: She Deserves a Great Mother's Day Gift, Too
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.