The Best American Cheese Singles for a Classic Grilled Cheese
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
We Ordered 7 Fast-Food Breakfast Sandwiches to Find the Best One
The Ultimate Grilled Cheese
We Tried 7 Brands to Find the Best Boxed Mac and Cheese
26 Best Grilled Cheese Ideas
The Best Ever Grilled Cheese Sandwich
12 All-American Recipes to Make with American Cheese
Is American Cheese Real Cheese?
Four-Cheese Mac and Cheese
Italian Grilled Cheese Sandwiches
Grilled Cheese Loaf
How to Make the Ultimate Grilled Cheese
We Tested 5 Brands of Cheese Puffs. Here's What We Thought
Super Grilled Cheese Sandwiches
Grilled Cheese
Grilled Cheese Burgers
Gourmet Grilled Cheese Sandwich
Three-Cheese Nachos
Four-Cheese Mac and Cheese
Four-Cheese Pizza
The Best Cheese for Your Grilled Cheese
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Cheese
American Cheese
We Tried 7 American Cheese Singles and This One Made the Best Grilled Cheese
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
By
Lauren Habermehl
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Jun. 27, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
To perfect the old-school grilled cheese sandwich, we sampled seven brands of American cheese slices to find the tastiest, meltiest and creamiest of the bunch.
Grilled cheese sandwiches can be basic or over-the-top. While we love “grown-up” grilled cheese sandwiches made on artisan bread piled high with bacon, avocado, tomato and three kinds of fancy cheese, sometimes, nostalgia calls. When this happens, we want nothing more than a couple individually wrapped American cheese singles sandwiched between two slices of soft white bread and toasted till golden.
That said, have you wondered which brand makes the absolute best American cheese slices? While Kraft may have been the first to release a commercially packaged cheese slice in the 1950s, other brands have since entered the game, giving consumers a range of choices.
Our test aimed to weed out the weak from the real “big cheese” slices of the bunch.
Which American cheese brands did we try?
For our taste test, we selected seven American cheese slices. The slices came in at various price points, and we attempted to include a variety of selling points (like organic, all-natural or made with real dairy). Additionally, we picked brands with nationwide (or near nationwide) availability. If we were going to crown the best American cheese, we wanted it to be one that’s readily available to most readers, whether by way of a short drive from home or online grocery ordering platforms.
Here’s what we judged:
Aldi: Happy Farms American Cheese Singles
Boar’s Head: American Cheese
Horizon: Organic American Singles
Kraft: Singles American Cheese Slices
Sargento: Natural American Slices
Velveeta: Slices Original Cheese
Walmart: Great Value Singles American Cheese
How We Tested American Cheese
While I’m sure some people enjoy a slice of American cheese straight from the fridge, American cheese isn’t exactly something you expect to see served on a charcuterie board. American cheese is most at home on a grilled cheese sandwich, so that’s where we focused our testing.
We sandwiched two slices of each cheese between slices of buttered white sandwich bread. There’s a good case for making grilled cheeses with mayo, but we kept things simple for this test. We grilled the sandwiches in a cast-iron skillet until the cheese melted and the bread was toasted well on both sides. Once the sandwiches cooled a little, we cut them into triangles and served them warm.
To maintain impartiality, we numbered each sandwich and tested them blind. Criteria for evaluation included overall taste, creaminess and meltiness.
1
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
7. Horizon Organic
Is American cheese even “real” cheese? It often gets a bad rap due to its highly processed nature. That’s why we had high hopes that an organic offering would bring a little naturalness to our old-school grilled cheese. Unfortunately, priced at $5.99 for 12 slices, Horizon Organic American Singles were among the most expensive brands we tested and they scored the lowest in our taste test.
Bottom Line: These singles were less creamy than all the others, and had a bland flavor and a rubbery texture once melted in a grilled cheese sandwich.
2
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
6. Aldi
We love Aldi for its affordability. The chain has a proven track record of selling its own private-label versions of name-brand products. However, we felt that the Happy Farms American Cheese Singles didn’t hold up to expectations. Priced at $2.15 for 16 slices, this was the most affordable option that we tested, but the flavor was lacking.
Bottom Line: The artificial taste and mushy, gummy texture kept these singles low in the ranking. The cheese didn’t fully melt either, which was a bummer.
3
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
5. Sargento
Here’s the deal: Sargento’s Natural American Slices actually taste great. Priced at $5.49 for 12 slices, they have a wonderful cheddar flavor and, texturally, feel the most like “real” cheese. Why a low ranking, then? Our testers explained that, in order for a nostalgic grilled cheese to remind them of their childhood, they want a little bit of that salty, artificial cheese taste and consistency.
Bottom Line: It’s not our favorite for a nostalgic treat, but we would totally put this cheese on this fancy bacon grilled cheese sandwich every time.
4
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
4. Kraft
Kraft is the OG American slice. Our testers consistently put Kraft Singles squarely in the middle of the pack. Priced at $3.99 for 16 slices, Kraft’s offering remains an affordable, solid choice for an old-fashioned grilled cheese sandwich. They have a well-balanced flavor with the right amount of saltiness, and they melt smoothly for an Instagram-worthy cheese pull.
Bottom Line: These are middle-of-the-road slices. You can’t go wrong with the classic, but there are certainly better options on the market now.
5
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
3. Velveeta
Velveeta and Kraft have always been neck in neck in the processed cheese (and boxed mac and cheese) race. In our test, priced at $3.79 for 16 slices, Velveeta edged out Kraft by a nose. Our testers noted that, among all the slices tested, Velveeta produced the creamiest, most meltable cheese of the bunch.
Bottom Line: These singles had a touch more salt and a richer, milkier flavor than Kraft, which our panel enjoyed.
6
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
2. Walmart
Walmart took our testers by surprise. Priced at $2.48 for 24 slices, Great Value Singles American Cheese was one of the cheapest brands tested. However, this was not a you-get-what-you-pay-for moment. Everyone absolutely raved about this grilled cheese sandwich. The cheese was wonderfully rich and creamy with a well-balanced flavor.
Bottom Line: The cheese melted smoothly and just had a great overall texture. As one tester noted, “It’s the one that tastes most like childhood.”
7
/
7
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
1. Boar’s Head
While “you get what you pay for” didn’t apply to Walmart’s slices, it totally did in the case of Boar’s Head American Cheese. Priced at $5.99 for 16 slices, this was among the most expensive American cheese products we tested. However, the flavor and consistency were on a whole other level. This cheese has a rich taste with just the right amount of salt.
Bottom Line: The cheese had a slightly firmer consistency than all the others, which allowed it to pull a little more like real cheese while still retaining the iconic, gooey, creamy American cheese texture we all know and love.
Final Thoughts
Lauren Habermehl for Taste of Home
American cheese singles may have a reputation for being “fake” cheese, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t a time and a place for them. Sometimes we just want fake cheese, and when we do, we want the best darn fake cheese we can find. For a grilled cheese sandwich that takes you back to childhood, splurge on Boar’s Head or opt for more affordable slices from Walmart, Kraft or Velveeta.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Lucy Wang
Lucy is a first-generation Asian American mom and influencer who loves creating fun, approachable recipes.
Bars
Lucy Wang’s Rainbow Mochi Rice Krispies
Barbecue
Lucy Wang’s Easy KBBQ
Custard
Lucy Wang’s Banana Brulee
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box