Careers at WHO
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Careers at WHO
"WHO's work is about serving people, about serving humanity. Most importantly, it's about fighting to ensure the health of people is a basic human right." - Dr Tedros
Together for a healthier worldWHO’s work is founded on the principle that all people, everywhere, should enjoy the highest standard of health. We seek talented professionals looking to contribute to this important mission as members of our international workforce. WHO offers a dynamic work environment, opportunities for professional development and a competitive pay and benefits package. We are committed to achieving a diverse, multicultural and gender balanced workforce with broad representation from our Member States.
Are you 1 in a billion? Can you imagine by 2023 one billion more people with access to health services, one billion more kept safer from outbreaks and emergencies, and another billion living healthier? WHO and our partners can. Join us on the drive to provide health for all.
The WHO environment
APPLY HERE
Our values, our DNA
Trusted to serve public health at all times
Professionals committed to excellence in health
Persons of integrity
Collaborative colleagues and partners
People caring about people
WHO provides a safe environment, cares deeply about employee well-being and is committed to providing a work environment that respects the inherent dignity of all persons. WHO has a responsibility to take all appropriate steps to prevent and respond to
harassment, including sexual harassment, discrimination and abuse of authority in the workplace. Learn more about the WHO environment
WHO's policies and hiring practices are grounded in diversity, equity and inclusion. We continue to strive for gender balance throughout the organization. WHO encourages applications from unrepresented and underrepresented countries, people
with disabilities, younger applicants and women. Learn more about diversity, equity and inclusion
…it was pure fate that my application to WHO was successful. It was as though everything had been leading to this.Tuan Nghia TonTechnical OfficerRead the testimonial
I can contribute to this area of work, and in an organization like WHO it means I can have a lasting impact on the lives of so many people.Maria Intan Josi Health Research AssistantRead the testimonial
...I believe that real wealth is measured by the health of our communities Mahmoud SabraLogistics AssistantRead the testimonial
...I am on an exciting journey, and exactly where I need to be today, supporting WHO’s mission and I will continue to grow wherever I go.Moreblessing MoyoProgramme Management OfficerRead the testimonial
WHO job areasWHO acknowledges the needs for a strong workforce to achieve the vision of improving the health and well-being of people everywhere. Each day, our teams meet the emerging challenges in all the areas of the Organization, from
senior leaders to emergency administration staff, and from health specialists to data managers.
APPLY HERE
Public healthWe are proud of our public health experts. They are results oriented and drive programmes in all areas of health and emergencies.
They are agile and work at the country, regional and headquarters levels to achieve the highest standards of health through evidence-based programmes and goals.Learn more about who we are
Management and leadershipWHO’s pillar of accountability is held by senior leadership roles. They are our driving force and our face to the public. They are committed to upholding WHO’s role in our changing world and inspiring the next generation of leaders. The stronger
our leaders, the healthier our world will be.Learn more about our governing bodies
OperationsOur administration is dedicated to business strategy and innovative practices. WHO recognizes the importance of a strong management administration structure, committed to enabling people to work to the best of their ability and to optimizing the resources
available throughout the organization.Learn more about our Programme of Work
EmergencyAt any one time, the WHO workforce is actively responding to dozens of infectious disease outbreaks and natural disasters around the world. WHO staff have an essential role to play in supporting Member States to prepare for, respond to and recover from
emergencies with public health consequences.Learn more about work in health emergencies
WHO categoriesThe WHO workforce is our most important resource. WHO offers job opportunities under three kinds of staff categories as well as other contractual arrangements.
APPLY HERE
International Professional staff
Our internationally recruited staff serve in health technical, operational, managerial and leadership roles, across the world. They are committed to mobility and are employed to work according to their expertise and WHO’s programmatic needs.
National Professional Officer
Our National Professional Officers are professional level staff, often employed for their local knowledge and expertise in the country of their nationality. They work in diverse areas across the world and fulfill a wide range of responsibilities.
General Services staff
Our programmes and professional staff are supported by local residents or nationals, employed
in the general service staff category. They are essential for our success, have a wide range of skills and are valued by our teams across the organization.
Consultants and other contractual arrangements
WHO contracts subject matter experts to provide time-limited, project-focused professional level support to attain specific programme deliverables. These are not employment contracts and remain outside the scope of the WHO Staff Rules and Regulations.
WHO staff can apply to fixed term or temporary appointments and successful candidates will receive an attractive salary and benefits package. Some staff are part of our agile workforce mobility programme and all staff are employed under WHO’s
Rules and Regulations.Depending on your duty station, you may benefit from different health and well-being programmes and services.WHO has opportunities at different levels of responsibility and experience. We seek motivated individuals in all categories of work that meet our educational and work experience requirements.WHO also advertises other contractual arrangements for specific programme needs and offers competitive rates.
Compensation and benefitsStaff mobilityRequirementsNon-staff contracts
WHO Talent ProgrammesHelp us reach our Triple Billion targets by joining us through one of our talent programmes.
Junior Professional Officer ProgrammeThe Junior Professional Officer (JPO) Programme allows young professionals to gain practical experience in multi-lateral technical co-operation at an early stage in their career. Positions are available at our headquarters and at our regional and country
offices.
Internship ProgrammeWHO's Internship Programme offers a wide range of opportunities for students and recent graduates to gain insight into our technical programmes and administration; to acquire knowledge in specific areas and benefit from hands on work experience.
UN Volunteers ProgrammeWHO offers opportunities for UN Volunteers in many areas of expertise to strengthen capacity at the country and regional levels. UN Volunteers support WHO by contributing their skills to help reach our Triple
Billion targets.
Young Professionals ProgrammeThis WHO programme offers young professionals from a specific list of “Least Developed Countries” structured opportunities to engage in WHO’s work and build skills and competencies in key public health areas and incorporates exposure
at country level.
Lifelong learning and career development
The WHO AcademyWHO Academy: To be established in mid 2021, the WHO Academy will provide opportunities for high quality lifelong learning in health for millions of people around the world. Within WHO, the Academy will be the smart school for all WHO staff to help them learn, grow and progress in their career paths. Find out more about the WHO Academy
Learning and personal growthThe Career Management and Development team aims to support staff and encourage their growth at all stages of their careers with WHO. The team provides training, tools and assistance to help staff meet their potential, for both their personal benefit and to contribute to an organization of excellence. All training and workshops are delivered globally.Learn more about learning and personal growth
Join us on the drive to provide health for all, apply to WHO vacancies todayAPPLY HERE
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO