Norbauer's $8,000 keyboard waitlist climbs to 9 months — the world's most expensive keyboard is perpetually out of stock | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Portable Monitors
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Gaming Headsets
Best Gaming Headsets 2025
Gaming Chairs
Best Gaming Chair in 2025
Speakers
Best PC Speakers 2025: From Budget to Audiophile Bliss
Peripherals
These 15 gadgets under $50 have upgraded my tech life, and you can still get them on sale for the finale of Prime Day
Mechanical Keyboards
Severance keyboard phase-shifts from sci-fi to sci-fact with launch of a new Kickstarter campaign
Mechanical Keyboards
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Keyboards
Keychron K8 HE Special Edition Review: magnetic mid-century aesthetics
Mechanical Keyboards
Save $50 on Hyte's Keeb TKL mechanical keyboard — Super smooth switches, enthusiast grade experience, and a unique look
Mechanical Keyboards
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
Mice
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
Laptops
Enthusiast didn't like the Framework 13's mushy keyboard, so he built a custom version with a full mechanical keyboard
Peripherals
This $37 tactile dial for PCs supercharges your scrolling
Raspberry Pi
Raspberry Pi 500+ Review: RGB clicky keys and NVMe storage, but with a $200 price tag
Keyboards
Solar-powered Logitech keyboard appears on Amazon Mexico
Peripherals
Keyboards
Mechanical Keyboards
Norbauer's $8,000 keyboard waitlist climbs to 9 months — the world's most expensive keyboard is perpetually out of stock
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
16 September 2025
You don’t even get wireless connectivity, lighting, a numpad, or a control knob, and the wood riser is a $290 extra.
Comments (10)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Norbauer)
The self-proclaimed “keyboard dream from the future,” the Norbauer Seneca mechanical keyboard, is one of the most expensive production input devices we have seen. Despite its sky-high price range, spanning $3,600 to $8,090 plus extras, the Seneca is currently out of stock. Moreover, the wait list is a luxury sports car-esque six to nine months, according to the official site.Image 1 of 3(Image credit: Norbauer)(Image credit: Norbauer)(Image credit: Norbauer)We first reported on the Seneca back in May 2024, ahead of the First Edition’s touted release schedule. At that time, we summed up this premium keyboard’s design as offering a retro-futuristic electro-capacitive keyboard with purportedly silent stabilizers – at a price. We also deep dived into Ryan Norbauer’s quest to optimize key stabilizers, without any trade-offs. And, of course, we stared slack-jawed at the cost of this thing. Who would have guessed that Norbauer & Co. would end up not being able to keep up with the pace of demand?
Fixing the Biggest Problem With Mechanical Keyboards - YouTube
Watch On
Above: Adam Savage of MythBusters fame recently interviewed Ryan Norbauer.
You may like
Severance keyboard phase-shifts from sci-fi to sci-fact with launch of a new Kickstarter campaign
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Keychron K8 HE Special Edition Review: magnetic mid-century aesthetics
So, to help fill the time while you wait for your Seneca order to be fulfilled, let’s take a look at what your (potentially) high-four-figure outlay gets you. In addition to the underlying keyswitch and stabilizer tech, which is a signature feature of the Seneca, Norbauer doesn’t shy away from the use of premium materials and manufacturing methods.There are four finish options for the First Edition TKL keyboard, and they are all based on a metal chassis. Three aluminum finishes are available, and these are Oxide Gray, Travertine, and Heatshield. They all look matte and are fingerprint-resistant, providing a solid case for the keyboard mechanism. If you want to push the boat out further, there’s also a raw, uncoated titanium chassis option, with a sandblasted surface.For keycaps, Norbauer has looked to the aesthetics of the first personal computers, with a slightly sculpted finish, which is also known as MTNU. The material of choice is double-shot PBT, as used on many of the best mechanical keyboards we see in our test labs.All these material choices and refinements sound appealing, but even at this astronomical price, there seem to be some compromises that might mean the money-is-no-object Norbauer Seneca isn’t for you.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Missing featuresLet’s start by considering whether you might like to tilt the keyboard forward a little. Would you type more comfortably by increasing the keyboard rake? Norbauer eschews adjustable feet built into the keyboard, and instead offers a “beautiful teak wood” riser that slots under the keyboard, adding a 3° incline and $290. It is claimed this sliver of wood is "precision CNC machined in South Africa." In terms of woodcraft, CNC may be accurate, but it isn't a premium production method (hello IKEA). Norbauer's keyboard riser is basically a kitchen chopping board with an incline.
(Image credit: Norbauer)We also need to consider several modern comforts that the Norbauer Seneca is missing. Many are accustomed to keyboards with wireless connectivity options, some level of key backlighting, and additional media keys and knobs for quick and intuitive adjustments. The Seneca doesn’t offer any of these common frills. Also, numpad lovers will be steering clear of this input device.Before we go, considering the price and lack of features that some modern computer users might find essential, it might be tempting to assume Norbauer is purposely slow in its production process. The less cynical might suggest this is to ensure consistency and quality, but others may conclude it is a tactic to develop the panache of artificial scarcity.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See more Mechanical Keyboards News
See all comments (10)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Severance keyboard phase-shifts from sci-fi to sci-fact with launch of a new Kickstarter campaign
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Keychron K8 HE Special Edition Review: magnetic mid-century aesthetics
Save $50 on Hyte's Keeb TKL mechanical keyboard — Super smooth switches, enthusiast grade experience, and a unique look
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
Latest in Mechanical Keyboards
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
Save $50 on Hyte's Keeb TKL mechanical keyboard — Super smooth switches, enthusiast grade experience, and a unique look
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Severance keyboard phase-shifts from sci-fi to sci-fact with launch of a new Kickstarter campaign
The world’s loudest mechanical keyboard features relays and firecrackers to make noise
Royal Kludge highlights new mechanical keyboards at Computex 2025
Latest in News
Sony unveils first-ever wireless desktop speakers for PC gamers with planar magnetic drivers
Intel reportedly raising prices on ever-popular Raptor Lake chips
Intel taps Apple for potential investment, says report
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
10 Comments
Comment from the forums
acadia11
This has got to be a scam! This guy is taking the money and letting it ride on crypto and saying it will take them a year to get you your production keyboard. Refuse to believe it’s being played any other way! $8K for a 1981 radio shack keyboard!
Reply
Blastomonas
This is a bad joke.
Reminds me of the audiophile scams.
Reply
atomicWAR
What an amazing keyboard!!! For anyone who bought this fantastic piece of kit I have a wonderful deal on a bridge to sell you in Brooklyn... /S
Reply
COLGeek
Aesthetics and exclusivity aside...a fool and his money are soon parted.
Reply
edzieba
The person selling it straight up says that you don't need this keyboard. It's a functional artpiece - if you want to splash out thousands of dollars on a keyboard, then this will give you exactly that, and nobody doing so will be under any illusion this keyboard will do anything other than be a standard keyboard with excessive build quality. Those crying 'scam!' can be laughed out of the room.
from the Adam Savage video:
this is not really a keyboard a sane person needs to buy. This doesn't solve any essential problem that you can't solve with $10 or like the free keyboard that comes with your Dell.
Like I say, nobody needs this keyboard. I freely admit that. . Clearly this resonates with a small group of people and I just want to hang out with and make stuff for those people.
Reply
Findecanor
Norbauer is well-known in the keyboard enthusiast world for his high-end cases, and those were always expensive ... but this seems ridiculous.
Reply
jg.millirem
If this is about good clicking for obsessive people, stay the hell away from me when you’re using it. So distracting.
Reply
Sluggotg
I would expect the keyboard to come with some hookers and a bag of blow at that price. But, I buy stupid things too, so I understand. I just would rather have a several hundred dollar keyboard and use the rest for something else.
Reply
Jabberwocky79
Be careful fellas, the last time I innocently voiced a negative opinion about a keyboard on this site I was sarcastically derided - use your freedom of speech wisely! :p:LOL:
Reply
jp7189
Money aside, its interesting to see how different people solve different engineering challenges. Specifically, what went in to the space bar. Having said that I recently splurged ~$200 for a IQUNIX MQ80 + some shine through key caps. The stabilizers and double damping they use doesn't have the problem this guy was trying to solve.
Reply
View All 10 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.