Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 1 day ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Apple iPad Air (M3)
$539
$699
Save $160
This sleek and slim iPad packs plenty of power. It's great for entertainment and can even be used for productivity as well. Grab it now with a steep $160 discount
$539 at Woot
Expand
Collapse
The iPad provides one of the best tablet experiences on the market. Not only is it great for entertainment, but you can also get some work done on them if you need to as well. While there are plenty of different models to choose from, the iPad Air is a great middle ground, featuring a great design, lots of power, and a price that's relatively affordable. Right now, you can score the 256GB model with M3 chip for $160 below its original retail price, coming in at just $539 for Woot.
If you've been waiting, now's the time to pick one up
The iPad Air is a tablet with a great design, but most importantly, it delivers a lot of power thanks to its robust M3 chip. This is the latest model in the Air series, and as you might expect, this tablet can handle pretty much anything that you can throw at it.
It features an 11-inch Liquid Retina screen with impressive colors, and comes with 256GB of storage, which is great for games and apps that you can download from the App Store. The tablet supports the latest iPadOS version, which brings some impressive enhancements over previous software updates.
The tablet also has a 12MP camera on the rear, along with a 12MP camera on the front. Both can take excellent photos and videos, which is great if you need to capture something at the moment or hop on a video call. The dual speakers sound crisp and clear when watching shows, and the dual microphones make your voice sound clear for calls.
There's also support for Apple's Pencil stylus, which can be great if you're looking to sketch ideas, or draw up some plans. You can also grab Apple's keyboard cover, which is great if you're looking to up your productivity on the go. Grab this tablet with a steep discount while you can. It's a great price for a fantastic tablet.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Apple
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
1 day ago
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
3 days ago
6 reasons why most users should undervolt instead of overclock
2 days ago
If you pre-ordered Borderlands 4 on the Switch 2, I have bad news: the game has been delayed, but you might get a refund
1 day ago
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
30 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
The first Xbox-branded handhelds are finally up for pre-order, and the price is even higher than expected
7 ways my TV works as a part of my home lab
I use these Microsoft Teams tricks for flawless communication
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.