2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
What Are Semiliquid Funds?
Why Morningstar Is Rating Semiliquid Funds
What Set Apart Pimco’s Interval Funds
A Bit on Each Rated Fund
Why Morningstar Chose These Funds, and What Comes Next
Where to Find Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds
Home
Funds
2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds
2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds
How the funds stacked up, and what set Pimco apart.
Bryan Armour, CFA
Sep 3, 2025
Share
Semiliquid funds have received their first-ever Morningstar Medalist Ratings, and two funds stood above the rest. Pimco Flexible Credit Income and Pimco Flexible Municipal Income were awarded Silver and Bronze ratings, respectively, indicating our conviction that the funds will outperform their Morningstar Category Indexes over a full market cycle.Below is a full recap of the funds’ ratings:
Morningstar's First Semiliquid Medalist Ratings
As of Sept. 3, 2025. *Rating of fund's cheapest share class. What Are Semiliquid Funds?Semiliquid funds—including interval funds, tender offer funds, unlisted business development companies, and unlisted REITs—limit investors to periodic, and often capped, withdrawals. They typically offer quarterly redemptions limited to a portion of the fund’s assets, between 5% and 10%. This allows the fund’s managers to invest in illiquid securities that require a longer holding period, unlike exchange-traded funds and mutual funds that must be able to cash out investors each day. Regular redemption windows don’t afford managers an unlimited time horizon, though. Semiliquid managers earn their keep by balancing illiquid investments with their funds’ liquidity needs.Read more about how we define semiliquid funds.Why Morningstar Is Rating Semiliquid FundsSemiliquid funds have grown to over $400 billion as investors seek broader access to private markets. Private investments’ rise in popularity stems from companies staying private for longer and the growing importance of the private credit market since the global financial crisis. The number of public securities has shrunk as a result. Private assets can expand investors’ opportunity set and potentially diversify their portfolios. But choosing the right fund to access private assets is a challenge for investors because of complexity, lack of transparency, and high fees.That’s where Morningstar comes in. Our analysts conduct thoughtful due diligence to identify the durable advantages and risks of semiliquid funds. Analysts balance that risk and return to arrive at its Morningstar Medalist Rating, a single data point that conveys our conviction in a fund’s ability to outperform over a market cycle.Morningstar Medalist Ratings take the guesswork out of understanding semiliquid funds and give investors a deeper look into the five pillars that support our ratings: Process, People, Parent, Price, and Performance.Read more about the Morningstar Medalist Rating Methodology for Semiliquid Funds.What Set Apart Pimco’s Interval FundsInvestors expect something in return for less flexibility when investing in semiliquid funds. Pimco’s funds don’t disappoint. They make good use of the interval fund structure by holding a reasonable mix of higher-income illiquid securities while diligently adding leverage when opportunities arise. Not for naught, the managers have expertly managed the fund’s liquidity risk that comes from these allocations. Likewise, Pimco’s strategies sit well within their circle of competence. The portfolio managers have extensive experience structuring deals (in the case of Pimco Flexible Credit Income) and managing illiquid municipal bonds (in the case of Pimco Flexible Municipal Income).Where Others Fell ShortThe four other funds all lacked the pronounced edge necessary to receive higher-conviction ratings. But that’s where the similarities end. Each firm takes a different approach to private assets. Here’s a quick breakdown of each strategy and why they didn’t receive a higher rating.Capital Group married its successful public fixed income strategies with KKR’s private credit pedigree. Its funds prioritize liquidity over maximizing the interval fund structure, which should lower risk but limit upside. Adding KKR to the fund makes sense since Capital Group lacks experience managing private assets, but the partnership is unproven, for now.TCW leans into its asset-backed finance expertise with TCW Private Asset Income. Named portfolio manager Peter Van Gelderen co-heads TCW’s strong global securitized team. The strategy’s focus on less-liquid mezzanine debt requires a substantial number of sources and analytical rigor to separate the wheat from the chaff. It remains to be seen whether the TCW team can effectively achieve this: The fund launched in April 2025, and its managers are still building out the private debt portion of the portfolio.First Trust Alternative Opportunities primarily focused on hedge funds when it launched in 2014, before adding an operational due diligence team to broaden the fund’s mandate to include more private fund investments in 2019. As of June 2025, this complex portfolio included 35 subadvisors across mutual funds, separate accounts, and private funds, spanning investments in private equity, private credit, real estate, and hedge fund strategies. Complexity, limited liquidity, and opaque pricing of its holdings raise the risks of investing in this fund. Earning back high fees requires a significant and durable edge, which this fund lacks.A Bit on Each Rated FundPimco Flexible Credit Income Fund, SilverHaving two past winners of Morningstar’s Manager of the Year at the fund’s helm can’t hurt. Dan Ivascyn and Alfred Murata lead a cadre of other portfolio managers and analysts that collectively are among the best in the industry. In this fund, they apply an opportunistic and relative-value-driven version of the same process that has generated success in other Pimco-managed offerings, running the gamut from conventional to higher-risk strategies. Morningstar is initiating analyst coverage of the fund with High and Above Average People and Process ratings, respectively.The strategy invests in both direct lending and asset-backed finance across a range of subgroups, including a 40% stake that was roughly two-thirds residential and a third commercial real estate mortgages and loans as of mid-2025. Pimco classifies another 41% as corporate debt, subdivided into special situations (19%), performing credit (15%), and direct lending (6%). Another 9% was devoted to a mix of specialty finance-linked debt.Most peers use some combination of illiquid private debt, leverage, and lower-rated exposures to chase higher returns than conventional open-end fund portfolios. Many also stick with floating-rate loans and have little direct sensitivity to interest rate shifts.This fund uses a mix of those tools but in proportions that distinguish it from many rivals. It held more than 80% of net assets in a combination of nonrated and below-investment-grade debt as of March 2025, for example, though a portion are nonagency residential mortgages with legacy ratings that don’t reflect their recovery to health. The fund also uses leverage to get roughly 135% in market exposure via repurchase agreements. And compared with the near-zero rate sensitivity of most floating-rate funds, this one has also carried a longer duration, standing at roughly 3.5 years in mid-2025. Those factors have helped it generate one of the highest yields among private debt-focused diversified funds. Eric Jacobson, senior principal Fees matter for semiliquid funds. The institutional share class’ 1.76% prospectus adjusted expense ratio (which removes the costs associated with leverage) fell in the cheapest third of semiliquid fixed income funds, earning it a Morningstar Medalist Rating of Silver. More expensive A shares charge 50-75 basis points more, resulting in a Bronze rating.Pimco Flexible Municipal Income Fund, BronzeOne of the first municipal interval funds in the industry, Pimco Flexible Municipal Income stands out as a thoughtful and well-run approach to the municipal-bond market. Morningstar is initiating coverage of this strategy with Above Average People and Process ratings, resulting in Morningstar Medalist Ratings of Bronze across all share classes.Lead manager and muni team head David Hammer has anchored this effort since its March 2019 inception … The team uses a flexible, tax-efficient investment approach across the credit spectrum to take advantage of the muni-bond market’s inherent illiquidity. While the strategy isn’t managed to a specific benchmark and aims to capitalize on the limited liquidity requirements of the interval fund structure, it does recognize allocation limits around leverage, below-investment-grade bonds, taxable securities, and closed-end funds. Indeed, most of the assets are in liquid investment-grade muni bonds, coupled with allocations to remarketable variable-rate municipal term preferred securities to generate financial leverage of up to 42.5% of assets. That allows the team to take advantage of periods of muni outflow cycles, when forced selling within traditional muni strategies may drive yields up. Elizabeth Foos, associate director Investors can expect a blended portfolio of investment-grade and high-yield muni bonds, with an influx of the latter when the managers find relative value opportunities. Lower-rated bonds and leverage add to the fund’s volatility. Investors that could bear it were rewarded by one of the top-performing muni-bond funds, regardless of vehicle. Capital Group KKR Core Plus+, NeutralCapital Group, in partnership with KKR, launched its core-plus and multisector interval funds in late April 2025. Capital Group’s approach differs from others on this list in a couple of ways. This offering is tamer than other semiliquid peers, with 60% of the portfolio allocated to public debt and 40% private credit, no leverage, and higher redemption limits (it offers to redeem 10% of net assets each quarter instead of the more typical 5%). Investors wary of illiquidity may find this option more appealing than most semiliquid funds, but it doesn’t take full advantage of the interval fund’s structure. Morningstar is initiating coverage of this strategy with Average People and Process ratings, resulting in Morningstar Medalist Ratings of Neutral across all share classes.The strategy’s much-anticipated partnership between Capital Group and KKR brings together two top managers within their respective areas of public and private fixed income. Capital Group’s experienced team and vast supporting resources are among the industry’s deepest, while KKR has decades of experience managing all areas of private markets, including private credit. However, as the fund’s investment advisor in charge of the whole strategy, Capital Group is still in the early stages of navigating how to combine public and private assets in the less liquid interval fund vehicle structure. Paul Olmsted, senior analystWith its late April 2025 inception, the fund has yet to build a meaningful track record. The fund’s cheapest F-3 and R-6 share classes charge 0.84% and are among the cheapest fixed income interval funds available.Capital Group KKR Multi-Sector+, NeutralThe second interval fund formed in partnership by Capital Group and KKR in April 2025, Capital Group KKR Multisector+ follows the same premise as Capital Group KKR Core—Plus+ but applied to a slightly riskier opportunity set. A 60% allocation to public markets and larger redemptions make this fund more approachable for public market investors, but it doesn’t fully utilize the tools at an interval fund’s disposal.The partnership takes advantage of each firm’s personnel and process strengths. Capital Group’s three other seasoned bond managers have specialties across core bonds, high-yield, and securitized debt. KKR’s crew brings broad private debt experience with niche expertise in direct middle-market lending and asset-based finance. Each manager will apply robust research and risk management capabilities to build their individual portfolios. It’s up to [Capital Group’s principal investment officer Robert] Caldwell to monitor overall risk in conjunction with KKR and ensure ample liquidity to meet redemptions, when necessary. And while the fund has some leeway around these neutral targets, any differences are likely to be small. Paul Olmsted, senior analystWith its late April 2025 inception, the fund has yet to build a meaningful track record. The fund’s cheapest F-3 and R-6 share classes charge 0.89% and are among the cheapest fixed income interval funds available.TCW Private Asset Income, NeutralTCW Private Asset Income launched in April 2025 with compelling traits. It’s focused on private asset-based holdings well known to its veteran portfolio manager team, Peter Van Gelderen, Dylan Ross, and Max Scherr. Van Gelderen co-heads TCW’s global securitized team and has managed successful funds under Morningstar’s coverage for several years. Morningstar is initiating coverage of this strategy with Above Average People and Average Process ratings, respectively, resulting in Morningstar Medalist Ratings of Neutral across all share classes.The fund’s process is appealing … It’s focused on private asset-based holdings that generate higher returns in exchange for some mix of complexity, difficulty of execution, and lower liquidity. That dovetails with a structure distinct from peers linked to large, private debt specialists with their own origination platforms and private equity mandates, whose selling point is access to loan deals. By contrast, TCW’s value proposition is analytical rigor in choosing debt from a broader menu of sources, without the expectation that the fund will buy in-house-generated debt deals. That selectivity is critical, given the strategy’s focus on less-liquid mezzanine debt tranches with more return potential than higher-rated slices of a deal, but less risk than highly leveraged bottom-level tranches. Eric Jacobson, senior principalThe fund has yet to build a meaningful track record and is in the process of ramping up its portfolio of private deals that it expects to comprise 90% of its portfolio. Its focus on less-liquid mezzanine debt tranches adds enough risk that the fund forgoes financial leverage.First Trust Alternative Opportunities, NegativeFirst Trust Alternative Opportunities invests in a mix of private markets and hedge funds primarily through coinvestments and subadvisors. Coinvestments refer to a specific loan or equity stake where the originator invites others to coinvest in the loan directly, typically under the same terms. Coinvestments can be a cost-effective way to access deals, but cede they control to the originator. Less cost-effective is the fund-of-fund approach to investing. It diversifies manager risk but layers fees on top of this fund’s management fee, potentially including performance fees that don’t make it into the fund’s expense ratio.Investors looking for a simple way to invest in a broad mix of alternatives, with experienced managers and a good track record, may find this an appealing option. However, its complexity, limited liquidity, and limited mark-to-market require investors to carefully weigh the risks alongside potential rewards. Jason Kephart, senior principalThe fund’s institutional share class charges an adjusted fee of 3.25%, which is high but comparable to other semiliquid alternatives and allocation funds. Clearing that hurdle requires a meaningful edge, which this fund lacks.Why Morningstar Chose These Funds, and What Comes NextMorningstar selected this initial group of interval funds to give investors a cross-section of different types of strategies and approaches from previously rated asset managers. In our next round of ratings, most of the interval funds will come from firms that primarily manage private assets, rather than invest in public securities. We’re initiating coverage of several new firms, which requires additional due diligence and a longer lead time.Where to Find Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid FundsMorningstar Medalist Ratings for semiliquid funds will appear on Morningstar.com for Investor subscribers and within other products, including Morningstar Direct, Direct Advisory Suite, and semiliquid fund data feeds. Those with access to Morningstar Direct can view interval funds with Morningstar Medalist Ratings.
Correction: (Sept. 12, 2025): A previous version of this article misspelled the name of TCW Private Asset Income comanager Max Scherr.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
9 Top-Performing Large-Value Funds Funds from Invesco, Natixis, and BNY Mellon are among the best performers.
Gabe Alpert Sep 18, 2025
The 2 ETFs That Track Congressional Stock Trades These vehicles shed light on how Democratic and Republican members of Congress invest their money.
Zachary Evens Sep 18, 2025
Why We Highly Rate American Funds American Mutual A solid income-oriented approach.
Stephen Welch Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Bryan Armour, CFA Director, ETF & Passive Strategies, US
More from Author
Bryan Armour is director of ETF and passive strategies research for North America. Email Bryan at bryan.armour@morningstar.com.
Investors Can Depend on Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 16, 2025
Robinhood’s First Fund Could Spell Disaster for Investors
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off
David Sekera, CFA Sep 15, 2025
2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 3, 2025
3 Great ETFs to Buy Before the Fed Cuts Interest Rates
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 29, 2025
Why You Should Pay Attention to Active ETFs
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 27, 2025
Investors Are Seeking Safety in Gold ETFs. Is It Working?
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 8, 2025
Passive Funds Beat Active Amid This Year’s Market Volatility
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 5, 2025
Digging for Gold With ETFs
Bryan Armour, CFA Jul 23, 2025
Morningstar′s Guide to ETF Investing
Emelia Fredlick Jul 21, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility