My fiancée and I are 61. I'm moving into her home. How do we divide the expenses fairly? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
My fiancée and I are 61. I'm moving into her home. How do we divide the expenses fairly?
My fiancée and I are 61. I'm moving into her home. How do we divide the expenses fairly?
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 18, 2025, 12:11:00 AM
By Quentin Fottrell
'Once I have moved in with her, the plan is to rent out my house'
"Once I have moved in, the plan is to rent out my house. The rent should cover my mortgage, taxes, upkeep, etc." (Photo subjects are models.)
Dear Quentin,
My fiancée and I are getting married this spring. We are both 61 years old and we are financially secure, with enough savings to let us retire comfortably within 10 years. I am in the process of moving into her house.
We both have very substantial equity in our homes, as well as very low mortgage rates. Once I have moved in with her, the plan is to rent out my house. The rent should cover my mortgage, taxes, upkeep, etc., perhaps with a bit left over after all expenses are paid.
One of my fiancée's children is an adult who is disabled and living at home. Her other child is away at college. My eldest child is living the yuppie dream in Seattle and is fully independent. My other child just started college and is living in the dorms.
It would not make sense for us to have me assume co-ownership of her house for various reasons, including the fact that she wants her house to be a resource for her children after she passes.
Do we split the expenses 50/50 or three ways as there are three of us living under the same roof? How should we divide expenses equitably, assuming we keep ownership of both our homes? What other advantages will come with being married?
Happily Engaged
Don't miss: Did baby boomers really have it easier than millennials?
You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com. The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.
This is a relationship of financial equals. You both have homes, you both have children from previous marriages to whom you will presumably leave your assets.
Dear Engaged,
All else being equal, assuming your fiancée's child does not work, it would seem churlish to split the household expenses three ways. It would be a trickier situation if you did not have your own home, and your contributions included "rent" in addition to household expenses. That can create complications and resentment.
Given that you're renting your own home out, and may have some money left over, it seems fair and/or equitable to split the expenses 50/50 (utilities, household items and groceries). Your fiancée, meanwhile, pays for her own property taxes and general maintenance of the home (as you would with your own home).
Thankfully, this is a relationship of financial equals. You both have homes, you both have children from previous marriages to whom you will presumably leave your assets after you die, but it's important to talk now about your respective responsibilities and expectations to avoid having a years-long financial fallout like this couple.
You intend on getting married, so this will be a good test run. Living together is a lot different than dating, as I'm sure you know, and you will have to deal with the realities of each other's daily lives, including how adult children fit into the mix. Sharing a house with a third adult may be both a gift and a challenge.
Whether you're 30 or 60, I recommend a prenuptial agreement. Given that you're both in your 60s and likely have substantial assets in the form of IRAs and 401(k)s, it's especially important. As a married couple, you will benefit from income-tax breaks and Social Security allowances (including spousal benefits and survivor benefits).
You are entitled to collect up to 50% of the amount of your ex-spouse's Social Security benefits, if they are greater than yours. To qualify, you must be married for at least 10 years, and be unmarried at the time of your application for spousal benefits. If you both have adequate Social Security benefits, that will be of little concern for you.
Spousal benefits
Couples who remarry after age 60 would forfeit the spousal benefit from your first husband, but they can retain the survivor's benefit if their former spouse has passed away. "If you remarry before you reach age 60 and that marriage ends, you may be able to get benefits on your previous deceased spouse's record," the SSA says.
While not a family plan, Medicare is also impacted by marriage. "Each spouse pays separate Medicare premiums, and married couples don't get a discount," according to the AARP. "If both spouses are enrolled in Medicare Part B, they each pay $174.70 a month in 2024," while payments are "more for couples with high incomes."
Being married and enrolled in Medicare has benefits and drawbacks, AARP adds. "You can qualify for premium-free Part A based on your spouse's work record. Most people don't pay premiums for Medicare Part A because Medicare taxes were deducted from their paychecks for at least 40 quarters of work, the equivalent of 10 years or more."
And the bad news: "Joint income affects premiums for high earners," AARP says. "People with high incomes pay more for Medicare Part B and Part D prescription-plan premiums, and the high-income surcharge is based on joint income for married couples filing a joint income-tax return." Read more about that here.
An advanced healthcare directive informs your doctors what action you want them to take if or when you are unable to make those decisions yourself. You may wish to list your future wife as your healthcare proxy to carry out those decisions, and vice versa. Serious medical issues can put pressure on a marriage, as this couple discovered.
Also, ensure you have a successor to your wife on both your POA and healthcare directive. Review your pension survivorship benefits and the survivorship income to your spouse, and examine the schedule of daily and monthly benefits in your long-term care policies, in addition to definitions of home care and assisted living care.
If you were unmarried, I would advise that you sign a cohabitation agreement to prevent any complications (or claims) down the road. As you plan to marry, a "gray prenuptial agreement" would help iron out any financial wrinkles like spending retirement assets, beneficiary designations and possible commingling of funds.
A new adventure awaits you as a married couple in retirement.
Related: 'My retirement is going to be a disaster': I'm 59 and have $45,000 in my 401(k). I earn $72,000. Am I doomed?
More columns from Quentin Fottrell:
'We are acquaintances, not friends': My neighbors need somewhere to stay after a house fire. Do I say yes?
'The sky has not fallen': Is it finally time to stop worrying about a recession?
I have early Alzheimer's and my husband has stage 4 kidney disease. We just inherited $50K. How can this help us?
Check out The Moneyist's private Facebook group, where members help answer life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.
By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.
By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.
-Quentin Fottrell
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-17-25 2011ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation We wrap up our coverage of the markets and the week.
Tom Lauricella Sep 20, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility