Newsom signs bill barring on-duty federal officers from wearing masks in California - CBS Los Angeles
Latest
U.S.
Trump at U.N.
SIM Card Threat
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Los Angeles
|
News
Weather
Sports
Videos
News Tip
KCAL News Shows
All News
LA News
OC News
IE News
U.S.
KCAL News Investigates
Entertainment
Politics
Consumer
Business
Health
On Your Side
Latest Weather
Radars & Maps
All Sports
Chargers
LA Kings
Rams
Lakers
Clippers
Golf
CBS Sports HQ
Dodgers
Angels
Soccer
Hockey
College Sports
The Desk
Let's Go Places
On Your Side
Inside SoCal
Java with Jamie
KCAL News Investigates
Class Act
SoCal Spotlight
People Making a Difference
Station Info
KCAL News Team
Contests & Promotions
Advertise
Seen on TV
Download the App
Galleries
Memorials
Watch CBS News
Local News
Newsom signs bill barring on-duty federal officers from wearing masks in California
By
Austin
Turner
Austin
Turner
Web Producer, CBS News Los Angeles
Austin Turner is a web producer at CBS News Los Angeles. An Inland Empire native, Austin earned a degree in journalism from San Jose State University in 2020. Before joining CBS News in 2025, he worked at KTLA, the San Jose Mercury News, the Sedona Red Rock News and various other outlets as a freelance sports reporter.
Read Full Bio
Austin
Turner
Updated on:
September 20, 2025 / 8:22 PM PDT
/ KCAL News
Newsom signs bills, including one barring on-duty federal officers from wearing masks in California
Newsom signs bills, including one barring on-duty federal officers from wearing masks in California
02:53
California Gov. Gavin Newsom signed a series of bills in Los Angeles on Saturday, enhancing protections for residents as what he referred to as "secret police" continues to roam the streets for ongoing immigration enforcement operations at the direction of President Trump.The signing of five bills, all aimed at curbing the reach of federal officers toward potentially vulnerable populations, came as Newsom was joined by several members of the California legislature, LA Mayor Karen Bass and Los Angeles Unified School District Superintendent Alberto Carvalho.The headliner of the bills was the No Secret Police Act (SB 627), which will ban federal and local law enforcement, including Immigration and Customs Enforcement, from wearing face coverings while on duty. It goes into effect on Jan. 1 of next year.Officers must also be identifiable by name and badge number. "To ICE, [which is] unmasked. What are you afraid of," Newsom said on Saturday. "You're gonna do enforcement? Provide an ID."
U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli, a Trump appointee, said in a post to X that Newsom has "no jurisdiction over the federal government," and that he must go through Congress to enact the law."I've directed our federal agencies that the law signed today has no effect on our operations," Essayli said. "Our agents will continue to protect their identities."Sen. Scott Wiener, who represents San Francisco and penned the bill, called the presence of ICE in the state a "terror campaign." "No one wants masked officers roaming their communities and kidnapping people with impunity," he said. "As this authoritarian regime expands its reach into every aspect of daily life — including terrorizing people where they work, where they live, where they go to school, where they shop, where they seek health care — California will continue to stand for the rule of law and for basic freedoms."
Pro immigration protesters face off against Los Angeles based police forces for the No Kings protest in downtown Los Angeles
during a march against the Trump Military Parade and immigration raids by ICE in Downtown Los Angeles, United States, on June 15, 2025
Shay Horse/NurPhoto via Getty Images
The legislation comes after the Supreme Court ruled that immigration enforcement stops in Los Angeles can continue without officers needing reasonable suspicion that a person may not be in the U.S. legally. The ruling allows officers to question and detain people based on their skin color, accents and languages spoken.
"It's like a dystopian Sci-Fi movie," Newsom said. "Unmarked cars. People in masks. People are quite literally disappearing. No due process … Immigrants have rights and we have the right to stand up and push back."Other bills protect children from immigration enforcement operations while at school. Under SB 98, introduced by Sen. Sasha Renée Pérez of Pasadena, and Assembly Bill 49 by Al Muratsuchi of Torrance, families will need to be informed when officers arrive at their children's schools.Student information and classrooms are also protected under these new laws. Nonpublic areas of hospitals and emergency rooms are off-limits to officers who don't have judicial warrants or court orders.Elected officials who spoke on Saturday viewed the bills as a resistance to "authoritarian tendencies" exhibited by the Trump administration."I would characterize all of the bills as representative of legislative resistance," said Bass. Mr. Trump says the push to conduct immigration enforcement is to "reverse the tide of Mass Destruction Migration that has turned once Idyllic Towns into scenes of Third World Dystopia."
In a statement on Saturday, Department of Homeland Security Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin called the new legislation "despicable" and a "flagrant attempt to endanger our officers.""Sanctuary politicians' rhetoric comparing ICE to 'secret police' — likening them to the Gestapo—is diabolical," she said. "The men and women at CBP, ICE, and all of our federal law enforcement agencies put their lives on the line every day to arrest violent criminal illegal aliens to protect and defend the lives of American citizens. Make no mistake, this type of rhetoric is contributing to the surge in assaults of officers through their repeated vilification and demonization."  According to the DHS,  ICE enforcement officers are facing a more than 1000% increase in assaults against them.A list of the signed laws on Saturday can be found below:SB 267: Bars local and federal law enforcement officers from wearing face coverings unless absolutely necessarySB 805: Requires law enforcement officials to identify themselves while conducting dutiesAssembly Bill 49: prohibits school officials and employees from allowing federal agents conducting immigration enforcement to enter school sites without a warrant, court order or judicial subpoena. Senate Bill 81: prohibits immigration enforcement officers from entering health facilities without a judicial warrant or court order. Senate Bill 98: requires schools to notify parents, teachers, administrators, and school personnel on the confirmed presence of immigration enforcement agents/activity on school campuses.
Nidia
Cavazos
contributed to this report.
More from CBS News
Newsom signs bill reversing California cannabis tax increase
California bill reversing tax hike on legal cannabis heads to Newsom
Bay Area tech leaders sound alarm over new $100,000 H-1B visa fee
San Francisco's Lowrider Parade brings hundreds of cruising cars to the Mission District
Mandatory water conservation in Benicia doesn't stop city's annual Oktoberfest celebration
Austin
Turner
Austin Turner is a web producer at CBS News Los Angeles. An Inland Empire native, Austin earned a degree in journalism from San Jose State University in 2020. Before joining CBS News in 2025, he worked at KTLA, the San Jose Mercury News, the Sedona Red Rock News and various other outlets as a freelance sports reporter.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Man charged with shining laser pointer at Marine One with Trump aboard
Supreme Court lets Trump fire FTC commissioner for now and takes up dispute over removal
ICE threatens lawsuits if Democratic states don't hold migrants
Lindsey Halligan sworn in as interim U.S. attorney
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Los Angeles
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KCBS-TV
Public File for KCAL-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue