Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I recommend these models to different users | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I recommend these models to different users
From the Ultra to the SE 3, here's my buying advice for new users, fitness fans, health-focused shoppers, and everyone in between.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 25, 2025 at 5:00 p.m. PT
The Apple Watch SE 3 (left), Apple Watch Ultra 3 (middle), Apple Watch Series 11 (right). Nina Raemont/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple released three new smartwatches this month, and while they may look similar, their differences are stark. I've tested all three to get a sense of which watches work best for different people. I've even included one Apple Watch model from 2024 that, thanks to some retroactive updates through WatchOS 26, is a worthy contender for purchase this year. Here's the breakdown.1. Who should buy the Apple Watch SE 3?
Nina Raemont/ZDNETThe Apple Watch SE 3 is an entry-level smartwatch built for beginners. They may be unsure whether they'll really use a smartwatch day in and day out and don't want to splurge on a pricier model just yet. The device still packs many upgrades and, despite its affordable price, comes with many of the upgrades that the other watches in the lineup include. In many ways, the SE 3 takes the specs of last year's Series 10 and implements them in this affordable smartwatch -- an 18-hour battery life, Sleep Apnea Detection, and its latest chip, the S10. Also: I compared every Apple Watch in 2025 - here's why I recommend this model the mostThe screen is the smallest out of the lineup, and communicating through text can be annoying with only a letter-drawing feature or speak-to-text available. Best features18-hour battery lifeSleep Apnea Detection Sleep ScoresApple's latest S10 chipWhat Apple Watch SE 3 doesn't have Hypertension Detection, blood oxygen monitoring, ECG  The Series 11's 24-hour battery life The brightest display (only 1,000 nits)Who is the Apple Watch SE 3 best for?First-time smartwatch users, kids and teens, budget-conscious shoppers, people who want to monitor sleep and activity (but not monitor more advanced metrics like hypertension, blood oxygen, or by-the-minute heart rate data).
Buy the Apple Watch SE 3 $239.99 at Amazon2. Who should buy the Apple Watch Series 11?
Nina Raemont/ZDNETApple's flagship smartwatch has the second-longest battery life out of the lineup (and it's $400 less than the Ultra 3 with the longest battery life). I see the Series 11 as the Apple Watch that power users with older models would upgrade to.  As someone with a smaller wrist, the Series 11 and SE 3 are perfect sizes for my wrist, while the Ultra 3 took up too much surface area and weighed my arm down. For this reason, I'd recommend the Series 11 over the Ultra 3 to women. Also: I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice nowCompared to its Series 10 predecessor, there isn't much of a difference, besides the 24-hour battery life and durable display. But software-wise, everything is practically the same. Best features24-hour battery lifeHypertension Detection  More durable display Sleep ScoresWhat Apple Watch Series 11 doesn't have The Ultra 3's Emergency SOS via Satellite The Ultra 3's 3,000 nits display Who is the Apple Watch Series 11 best for? Owners of Apple Watch Series 8 or earlier seeking an upgrade, people who want to regularly track all aspects of their health, people who will wear the watch nonstop -- both during the day and to track their sleep at night.
Buy the Apple Watch Series 11 $399 at Amazon3. Who should buy the Apple Watch Ultra 3
Nina Raemont/ZDNETApple's most expensive and feature-rich smartwatch has the largest screen, the longest battery life, every health feature, great durability, and off-grid functionalities, like Emergency SOS via satellite for outdoor enthusiasts. Best features42-hour battery life Satellite connectivityHypertension DetectionLargest screen Sleep Scores What the Apple Watch Ultra 3 doesn't have A thin build (sleeping with the device is a pain) An affordable price (it costs $799) Who is the Apple Watch Ultra 3 best for?Outdoor enthusiasts and off-grid hikers, people who want a large watch display, people who can afford a $799 watch, and people who want all of Apple Watch's best, newest, and advanced features.
Buy the Apple Watch Ultra 3 $799 at Amazon4. Who should buy the Apple Watch Series 10?
Nina Raemont/ZDNETYou might be scratching your head reading this. Wasn't the Series 10 unveiled last year? Yes. But I'd argue it's a worthy buy this year for deal-grabbing Apple Watch customers. Thanks to some of the retroactive upgrades coming to earlier smartwatch models, including the Series 9, Series 10, and Ultra 2, you can get much of the same software on a cheaper Apple Watch. Also: Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older modelsYou won't get the Series 11's 24-hour battery life, but if you don't mind charging your watch ahead of bedtime sleep-tracking, this probably won't be an issue. Best featuresHypertension DetectionSleep Scores WatchOS 26 (available on the new watches)Same build and thinness as Series 11 What Apple Watch Series 10 doesn't have Watch Series 11's 24-hour battery lifeA more durable display Who is the Apple Watch Series 10 best for? Smartwatch shoppers on a budget, people who don't care about the latest lineup, people who will wear their watch during the day and occasionally sleep track, people who are on top of charging their device if they want continual use (because the watch only lasts 18 hours).
Buy the Apple Watch Series 10 $359 at AmazonFeatured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
I compared the two best smartwatches on the market - here's how Apple Watch Series 11 wins
I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice now
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use