OPEN Stock Price Quote | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Stocks
Opendoor Technologies Inc Ordinary Shares - Class A Opendoor Technologies Inc Ordinary Shares - Class A OPEN
Morningstar Rating
Unlock
Stock XNAS
Rating as of Sep 25, 2025
Today’s Gainers
Download PDF
More Actions
Summary
Chart
News
Price vs Fair Value
Sustainability
Trailing Returns
Key Metrics
Financials
Valuation
Dividends
Ownership
Executive
$9.09 +0.86
(10.45%)
View Full Chart
As of Sep 25, 2025, 8:00:07 PM Delayed Price Closed
About Quantitative Ratings
Morningstar Quantitative Ratings for Stocks are generated using an algorithm that compares companies that are
not under analyst coverage to peer companies that do receive analyst-driven ratings. Companies with quantitative
ratings are not formally covered by a Morningstar analyst, but are statistically matched to analyst-rated
companies, allowing our models to calculate a quantitative moat, fair value, and uncertainty rating.
Price vs Fair Value
View History
OPEN is trading within a range we consider fairly valued.
Price
$9.09
Sep 25, 2025
Fair Value
$9.68
Sep 20, 2025
Uncertainty
Very High
1-Star Price $14.445-Star Price $2.73Economic Moat YngtCapital Allocation —
News
View All
Opendoor's stock soars after Jane Street's 'validation.' What comes next?
MarketWatch Sep 25, 2025, 11:21:00 PM
Opendoor's stock soars again, with leadership changes hailed as 'incredible outcome' for shareholders
MarketWatch Sep 11, 2025, 8:35:00 PM
Opendoor Technologies Snags Shopify Operating Chief Nejatian as CEO — Update
Global News Select Sep 10, 2025, 10:28:00 PM
Opendoor Technologies Snags Shopify Operating Chief as CEO
Global News Select Sep 10, 2025, 10:00:00 PM
Opendoor's stock flashes 'bearish engulfing' chart pattern. Is the rally over?
MarketWatch Sep 8, 2025, 10:31:00 PM
Opendoor's stock may be drawing in more bearish bets against it, even as it keeps rising. Here's why.
MarketWatch Sep 8, 2025, 3:23:00 PM
'Cult stock' Opendoor has hit a three-year high. And this is why.
MarketWatch Sep 4, 2025, 8:33:00 PM
Title Resources Group Expands in Mid-Atlantic with New Agency Account Manager
PR Newswire Sep 2, 2025, 6:00:00 PM
Trading Information
Previous Close Price $8.23 Day Range $7.87–9.21
52-Week Range $0.51–10.87
Bid/Ask $8.84
/
$8.85 Shares Outstanding 742.12M Market Cap $6.75B Volume/Avg 371M
/
300M
Key Statistics
Price/Earnings (Normalized) —Price/Sales 1.26Dividend Yield (Trailing) 0.00%Dividend Yield (Forward) 0.00%Total Yield —
Company Profile
Opendoor Technologies Inc is an end-to-end real estate platform enabling customers to sell and buy a home online. Its product offerings include Sell to Opendoor, its core product where sellers sell their homes directly to the company, and it resells those homes to buyers; List with Opendoor, for customers to list their homes with a partner agent; and Opendoor Marketplace, a capital light marketplace offering that connects home sellers with both institutional and retail buyers. In addition to these products, the company also offers its customers integrated title insurance and escrow services through its subsidiaries. A vast majority of the company's revenue is generated by its core product offering, where it acquires homes directly from sellers and resells those homes to buyers.
Show More
Sector Real EstateIndustry Real Estate ServicesStock Style Box Small ValueTotal Number of Employees 1,470Website https://www.opendoor.com
Valuation
View More
Metric
OPEN
Price/Earnings (Normalized) —Price/Book Value 10.57Price/Sales 1.26Price/Cash Flow —
Price/Earnings
OPEN
Financial Strength
Metric
OPEN
Quick Ratio 1.23Current Ratio 4.35Interest Coverage −1.26
Quick Ratio
OPEN
Profitability
Metric
OPEN
Return on Assets (Normalized) −6.80%Return on Equity (Normalized) −30.12%Return on Invested Capital (Normalized) −2.68%
Return on Assets
OPEN
Real Estate Services Industry Comparables
Screen With Investor
1-Day Chart
Name
Price
Morningstar Rating for Stocks
Capital Allocation
Economic Moat
Market Cap
CBRE Group Inc Class A
CBRE
MjmgmdqfsPyzypy$47B CoStar Group Inc
CSGP
NtkgpqfqVtjnw$35B Vonovia SE
VNNVF
—Wht$26B Vonovia SE ADR
VONOY
—Fdwj$26B KE Holdings Inc ADR
BEKE
DzrlxrylZmhscd$23B Cellnex Telecom SA ADR
CLLNY
—Bfpdhnn$23B Cellnex Telecom SA
CLNXF
—Llqxn$23B Jones Lang LaSalle Inc
JLL
FbbdlqljmPkkxsc$14B Cushman & Wakefield PLC
CWK
GcqrqffznPmnc$4B Nam Tai Property Inc
NTPIF
—Ngdq$250M
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility