The ‘near-telepathic’ device that puts AI in your head
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
18 September 2025
The ‘near-telepathic’ device that puts AI in your head
AlterEgo’s neural-interface device is non-invasive and is being tested in people with multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
By
Chris Simms0
Chris Simms
Chris Simms is a science writer based in Somerset, UK.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Arnav Kapur, chief executive of AlterEgo, demonstrates the wearable device.Credit: AlterEgoA wearable device could make saying ‘Alexa, what time is it?’ aloud a thing of the past. The artificial intelligence (AI) neural interface called AlterEgo promises to allow users to silently communicate by just thinking words. Sitting over the ear, the device facilitates daily life through live communication with the Internet. “It gives you the power of telepathy but only for the thoughts you want to share,” says AlterEgo’s chief executive Arnav Kapur, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Kapur unveiled the device on 8 September.The device does not read brain activity, but predicts what a wearer wants to say from signals in muscles used to speak, then sends audio information back into their ear. The researchers say that their non-invasive technology could help people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and multiple sclerosis (MS) who have trouble speaking, but also want to make the devices commercially available for general use.In a promotional video on the AlterEgo website, Kapur says that “it’s a revolutionary breakthrough with the potential to change the way we interact with our technology, with one another and with the world around us”.“The big question about this is ‘how likely is that potential to be realized?,” says Howard Chizeck, an electrical and computer engineer at the University of Washington in Seattle. Chizeck says that the technology seems workable and is less of a privacy risk than listening devices such as Amazon’s Alexa are, but isn’t convinced that the device will catch on for commercial use.Silent speechBrain-computer interfaces, like those from Elon Musk’s firm Neuralink,typically require electrodes to be surgically implanted in the brain to record and send signals between neurons. AlterEgo works differently. “It’s using neuromuscular signals that would be used in speech, so it’s like you’re silently talking,” says Chizeck. “The clear advantage is that it’s not invasive. You don’t have to put chips in the brain with risks of infection and surgery.”The device works by measuring speech patterns in the face. When you speak aloud, silently mouth words or internally articulate words, the information is sent from the brain to the cranial nerves and articulatory muscles, even if the face doesn’t move. AlterEgo detects electrical signals in the articulatory muscles, then sends the data to AI models that predict what the wearer wants to say. The device then communicates audio back to the wearer through bone-conduction headphones.The AlterEgo project was born in the MIT Media Lab in 2018. The original headset was large and ungainly, says Kapur, and its detection of speech was held back by the capabilities of artificial intelligence at the time. It had limited functionality but could search the web and “order pizzas”. Since then, the engineers have incorporated newer AI capabilities of speech recognition, and the project was spun off as a for-profit company earlier this year.Clinical applicationsThe technology is aimed at people with conditions that make speech difficult, such as dysarthria or dysphonia. AlterEgo is currently being trialled in people with ALS or MS.“A totally locked-in patient wouldn’t be able to use the system, but a lot of the time there is a sparse signal that exists in the speech system and that sparse signal is enough,” says Kapur. “We started with early-stage ALS patients, but we also were able to use the system with late-stage ALS patients.” The trials are ongoing, and results are yet to be published.“A totally locked in patient wouldn't be able to use the system, but a lot of the time there is a sparse signal that exists in the speech system and that sparse signal is enough,” says Kapur. “We started with early-stage ALS patients, but we also were able to use the system with late-stage ALS patients.” The trials are still ongoing, and results are yet to be published.Chizeck thinks that it might be usable for people with early-stage ALS, but because the disease is progressive, gradually reducing people’s ability to move the muscles required for speech, it might be less useful in later stages of the condition. “The device is only as good as the person’s control of speech,” he says.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03000-z
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Neural interface translates thoughts into type
Neuralink brain chip: advance sparks safety and secrecy concerns
CAR-T therapy for multiple sclerosis enters US trials for first time
Subjects
Technology
Brain
Latest on:
Technology
GPS timekeeping is increasingly vulnerable: here’s how to deliver future-proofed time
Comment 15 SEP 25
The chatbots claiming to be Jesus: spreading gospel or heresy?
News 15 SEP 25
Why we launched Denmark’s second Young Academy (and what’s different about it)
Career Column 12 SEP 25
Brain
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
News & Views 17 SEP 25
‘Brain dial’ turns food consumption on or off in mice
News 10 SEP 25
My blue is your blue: different people’s brains process colours in the same way
News 08 SEP 25
Jobs
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Related Articles
Neural interface translates thoughts into type
Neuralink brain chip: advance sparks safety and secrecy concerns
CAR-T therapy for multiple sclerosis enters US trials for first time
Subjects
Technology
Brain
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited