Blog | Heroku
Search overlay panel for performing site-wide searches
Search For:
Close
Salesforce (Heroku) Recognized as a Leader. Learn More!
Search
Open Search Popup
Account menu
DashboardDatabasesDataclipsElementsDocumentationSupport
Login
Sign Up
Products
Products
Discover Heroku’s AI PaaS (Platform as a Service), designed for effortless app deployment and scaling. Explore our cloud application platform features, reliable managed data services, and a robust ecosystem to power your modern applications.
Heroku PlatformDeploy, manage, and scale apps on Heroku, an AI PaaS based on a managed container system.Heroku AIBuild intelligent applications with managed inference and agents, MCP, and more.Heroku Data ServicesSimplify your data management with Heroku’s fully managed cloud databases and data services.Heroku EnterpriseThe Heroku experience developers love, with the enterprise features large companies need.Heroku SuccessExplore Heroku’s support options from Standard to Signature, with resources for developers and partners.Heroku Elements MarketplaceAccelerate your app development with our ecosystem of add-ons, integrations, and buildpacks.
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Developers
Developers
With Heroku's flexible app platform, you can focus on building apps, not infrastructure. Benefit from a meticulously designed developer experience, a polyglot platform supporting your favorite languages, and innovative AI PaaS features to enhance your development workflow.
Dev CenterDive into our comprehensive documentation and guides. Learn about building, deploying, managing, and scaling your apps.Languages
Python.NETJavaNode.jsGoPHPRubyScalaClojure
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Customers
Customers
Discover how companies in diverse industries like Healthcare, Entertainment, Automotive, Retail, FinTech, and more achieve growth and foster innovation with our powerful cloud application platform. Learn how they leverage Heroku’s AI PaaS for cutting-edge solutions.
Customer StoriesHeroku in action: See how organizations of all sizes and industries are succeeding with Heroku.Community StoriesExplore real-world experiences and perspectives on Heroku from developers and communities online.
Customer Story: Watch Duty
Discover how Watch Duty used Heroku to provide real-time wildfire alerts, achieving 100% uptime and scaling effortlessly during crises.
PricingResources
ResourcesLearn more about Heroku's AI PaaS and stay up to date on all Heroku announcements. Gain insights from our team through insightful content and discover how to leverage our platform effectively.
BlogStay up-to-date on Heroku news, important product releases, and valuable insights from the Heroku team.What is Heroku?Learn how Heroku’s AI PaaS simplifies app development, deployment, and scaling.EventsFind Heroku at an event near you! Explore our calendar of tech conferences and meetups.PartnersFor Consultants, ISVs, and technical solution providers looking to grow their business with pro-code solutions.Compliance CenterHeroku is a platform you can trust. Explore our compliance certifications and security measures.Help CenterFind answers to your questions in the Help Center. Browse FAQs, articles, and get support.
Latest News from the Heroku Blog
Securing Salesforce Integrations with Heroku AppLink
Sept 10 - by David Baliles
Improve your security model with Heroku AppLink, a managed bridge between Salesforce and Heroku that improves risk and governance.
Heroku Blog
Latest
News
Engineering
Ecosystem
Life
Heroku AI Studio is Your Workspace for Smarter, Faster AI Apps
News
Last Updated: September 17, 2025
Anush DSouza
Ever found yourself in the endless loop of tweaking a prompt, running your code, and waiting to see if you finally got the output you wanted? That slow, frustrating feedback cycle is a common headache for AI developers. What if you could speed that up and get back to what you do best? Let’s focus on building amazing applications. We're excited to introduce Heroku AI Studio, a new set of tools designed to streamline your generative AI development from prompt to production. We've focused on creating a more intuitive and efficient workflow, so you can focus on innovation instead of wrestling with your development environment. When using the Heroku Managed Inference and Agents add-on, this new tool is about to become an essential part of your workflow.
Securing Salesforce Integrations with Heroku AppLink
Engineering
Last Updated: September 10, 2025
David Baliles
Salesforce customers often leverage third-party or custom services to extend their orgs, and they do so with two common options: Connected Apps and External Services. Connected Apps let third-party vendors or custom code call Salesforce APIs using long-lived OAuth tokens, while External Services call vendor APIs through declarative configurations with vendor-managed hosting, scaling, and endpoint security. While both approaches deliver functionality, the dynamic security threat landscape challenges us to continuously improve the risk and governance of our applications. Heroku AppLink improves your security model and provides a managed bridge between Salesforce and Heroku, so developers or vendors can deploy services in any language and expose them as native Salesforce actions. Heroku AppLink automatically handles authentication, service discovery, and request validation while its service mesh and short-lived credentials mean that your integrations no longer depend on stored credentials or exposed endpoints. Development teams can reuse existing code and libraries instead of rewriting in Apex, admins get centralized visibility into connections and authorizations, and security teams gain tighter trust boundaries across both Connected App and External Service scenarios.
Triage and Fix with Confidence: heroku run and OTel on Heroku Fir
Engineering
Last Updated: September 08, 2025
Su Glasgo
When Production Goes Sideways
Imagine this: It’s 2 AM, your phone buzzes with an alert, and your dashboards are screaming. Production is down. Sound familiar? An automated health check has failed, and your internal dashboards are showing a spike in errors. You’ve just pushed a new release that included a critical database schema change, and a background worker task that relies on it is now failing. The web application is still running, but users are starting to report issues. You need to investigate and fix the problem, but doing so on a running production dyno could be risky and…
Corrective Action Update for the Heroku June 10th Outage
News
Last Updated: September 05, 2025
Michelle Peot
Beginning at 06:00 UTC on Tuesday, Jun 10, 2025, Heroku customers began experiencing a platform service disruption due to an unintended system update applied to our production infrastructure by our vendor. To compound the issue, the Heroku Status site was affected by the outage. Shortcomings in site design and API latency resulted in timeouts, and the Status site appeared as if there were no active incidents. On June 15th we published a summary of our initial investigation, mitigation, and root cause analysis. We also identified the following post-incident remediation objectives:
Ensuring immutable infrastructure Increasing resilience of communication channels Accelerating investigation and recovery
As promised, we are providing a status update of our continued corrective actions.
Discover How Heroku’s AI PaaS Delivers Real-World Results at Dreamforce
News
Last Updated: September 04, 2025
Lauren Groccia
The AI revolution presents a critical challenge: moving from experimentation to production. This year, Heroku has evolved beyond a traditional PaaS to become an AI PaaS, a fully managed platform designed to solve this problem and accelerate the delivery of AI-powered apps. With new capabilities like AppLink, Managed Inference and Agents, and MCP on Heroku, Heroku now provides a fully managed platform designed for the AI era. This evolution accelerates the delivery of AI-powered apps and intelligent agents, bringing a new level of speed and simplicity to your development process. Dreamforce 2025 is your chance to see firsthand how the Heroku AI PaaS is delivering business value faster and with less complexity.
Amazon Nova Models: Now Available on Heroku
Engineering
Last Updated: August 26, 2025
Anush DSouza
Building intelligent applications requires powerful, cost-effective AI. Today, we’re simplifying that process by making Amazon’s cutting-edge Nova models directly available via Heroku Managed Inference and Agents . Provisioning these models is as simple as attaching the add-on to your Heroku application, providing a direct, managed path for developers and businesses to leverage a new class of powerful and cost-effective AI models with unparalleled simplicity.
Newer Posts
Older Posts
Subscribe to the full-text feed.
Products
Heroku Platform
Heroku AI
Heroku Managed Inference and Agents
pgvector for Heroku Postgres
MCP on Heroku
Heroku Data Services
Heroku Postgres
Heroku Key-Value Store
Apache Kafka on Heroku
Heroku Enterprise
Heroku Private Spaces
Heroku Connect
Heroku Shield
Heroku Success
Heroku Teams
Elements Marketplace
Languages
Python
.NET
Java
Node.js
Go
PHP
Ruby
Scala
Clojure
Resources
Dev Center
Training & Education
Get Started
Pricing
Blog
Customers
Partners
Compliance Center
Solutions
Podcasts
About Us
What is Heroku?
Heroku & Salesforce
Careers
Help Center
Status
Contact
Rss
X-twitter-square
Github
Linkedin
日本語
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
© Copyright 2025 Salesforce, Inc. All rights reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners. Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105, United States