Best iPad of 2025: Top iPad Air, iPad Mini, iPad Pro Picks - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechComputing Tablets
Best iPad of 2025: Top iPad Air, iPad Mini, iPad Pro Picks
CNET experts list the best iPads that suit your needs.
Our Experts
Written by
Scott Stein
Article updated on July 10, 2025 at 12:25 PM PDT
Scott Stein Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future. Expertise VR and AR | Gaming | Metaverse technologies | Wearable tech | Tablets Credentials Nearly 20 years writing about tech, and over a decade reviewing wearable tech, VR, and AR products and apps
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
Apple’s iPad lineup ranges from about $300 to over $1,000. Expect to spend between $400 and $600 for a great experience.
Display
Apple’s displays are all good, but quality does improve in the Air and Pro models. The iPad Pro, for instance, has a faster refresh rate for smoother scrolling, and the 12.9-inch model has a Mini-LED backlight for higher contrast and deeper blacks.
Processor
Some iPads use modified iPhone chips, and some are several years old. Others use M1 and M2 processors like recent Macs, offering better performance, added multitasking features and boosted graphics.
Pencil support
Apple’s Pencil is a useful accessory for writing and art, but some iPads only use the first-gen Pencil, while others support the improved second-gen one. Apple’s lower-cost USB-C Pencil doesn’t have pressure sensitivity but works across most models.
Camera
The iPad's cameras work well for photos or video on the fly, but the front-facing cameras are oddly off-center for landscape-mode video chat. Only the 10th-gen iPad has its centered on the long edge for widescreen chats, but next year’s iPads will likely follow suit.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
There are a lot of iPads in the world. The current lineup alone has six model choices and previous models are still available new and used. All of the iPads have strong suits and different capabilities, too, making choosing the right one for your needs tricky. Here’s the thing: CNET has been testing and reviewing iPads since the original version and we've tested every model since. We've reviewed and compared the latest iPad Pro, iPad Air, iPad and iPad mini for performance, battery life, features and overall value. We’ve also compared their performance against Macs and competing Android tablets to judge their relative value. Right now, the best iPad for most people is very likely the new basic iPad, although stay tuned for a full CNET review of it. The minor updates should make what was already our favorite cost-friendly iPad even better. Our Picks
Best budget iPad for most people and kids iPad 11th-Gen (2025)
Jump to details
$349 at Apple
Jump to details
Best iPad for college students and artists iPad Air (M3, 2025)
Jump to details
$599 at Apple
Jump to details
Best iPad for power users and professional artists iPad Pro (2024)
Jump to details
$999 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best tiny travel iPad iPad Mini (2024)
Jump to details
$489 at Walmart
Jump to details
TABLET DEALS OF THE WEEK
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $167 (save $54)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $319 (save $30)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $383 (save $98)
Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 128GB Wi-Fi Tablet (Gray):  $450 (save $50)
Lenovo Idea Tab Pro 128GB Wi-Fi 12.7-inch Tablet With Pen and Folio Case:  $364 (save $17) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best iPad of 2025: Top iPad Air, iPad Mini, iPad Pro Picks
What's the best iPad overall?
Best iPads of 2025
Best budget iPad for most people and kids
Best iPad for college students and artists
Best iPad for power users and professional artists
Best tiny travel iPad
How we test iPads
Factors to consider when buying an iPad
iPad FAQs
What's the best iPad overall?For years, we've recommended the lower-end iPads as great family and kid picks and that's why the 10th-gen iPad was our top choice for years. The revamped new version (11th gen) adds a newer A16 chip and doubles the base storage to 128GB. We already loved that the front camera was in a better location for video chat, and that this iPad has USB-C and an overhauled design. The only things this entry-level iPad still lacks are support for Apple Intelligence -- a feature that still feels unnecessary but could be a factor in future versions of iPadOS -- and support for Pencil 2 and Pencil Pro styluses. If that matters to you, go with an Air, Pro or Mini model.The iPad Pro and iPad Air are more expensive models that boast impressive processors, better camera placement for video chats, improved Pencil Pro stylus support and an OLED display on the Pro models. However, they're likely to be more iPad than many want or need. The updated Mini may be too small for some, although it does have Pencil Pro and Apple Intelligence support that the basic iPad lacks.For the latest news about iPads and iPadOS, check out everything Apple announced at WWDC 2025. Best iPads of 2025
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best budget iPad for most people and kids
iPad 11th-Gen (2025)
Pros
Low price
128GB storage included on base model
Solid front video camera
Better A16 processor
Cons
No support for Apple Intelligence
Won't work with newer Pencil Pro or Pencil 2 stylus
Accessories still too expensive
The 10th-gen entry-level iPad got a refreshed design in 2022, adding USB-C, a faster A14 chip and a larger display. But the newer 2025 model bumps the processor up to a faster A16, and the base storage is now 128GB instead of 64GB, which is exactly what most people need. I love that this iPad is still affordable, and it has a great properly-positioned front-facing camera that centers video chats properly in landscape mode, which is how most people use their iPads when they're connected to keyboard cases. The downside is still the bizarre lack of support for the Pencil 2 or Pencil Pro, requiring you to use a first-gen Pencil and a USB-C charge dongle, or Apple's entry USB-C Pencil (not included) for sketches and note-taking. And this iPad still doesn't support Apple Intelligence, Apple's set of generative AI tools that are scattered through iPadOS, and that all the other iPads can use. No Apple Intelligence could mean this iPad isn't as futureproof as the others, but at this price it's the best family pick by far right now unless you prefer the smaller Mini that does support Pencil Pro and Apple Intelligence. It's not a surprising or exciting iPad, but for its price, it's the best choice for many.Estimated battery: up to 10 hoursChip: A16Display: 10.9-inch, 2360x1640 pixels, Liquid Retina (LCD)Pencil support: USB-C Pencil, Apple Pencil 1Storage options: 128/256/512GB  ... Show more
Get it now
$349 at Apple
$349 at Amazon
Learn more
iPad 11th-Gen (2025) review
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best iPad for college students and artists
iPad Air (M3, 2025)
Pros
Faster M3 processor
Front camera is properly centered for video chat
Supports Pencil Pro stylus
Improved Magic Keyboard
Cons
Not compatible with Pencil 2 stylus
Configurations can get expensive
Apple's iPad Pro hasn't gotten an update this year, but the iPad Air did. Apple's midrange tablet now has a faster M3 chip, and there's an optional slightly improved and slightly less expensive Magic Keyboard with added function keys. Otherwise this is the same iPad Air proposition as last year, at the same price, but that extra performance bump narrows the gap between this and the Pro's M4 chip. This Air supports Pencil Pro, too, but the display lacks the extra vividness and faster screen refresh rates of the OLED Pro line. Estimated battery: up to 10 hoursChip: M3Display: 11-inch, 2360x1640 pixels, or 13-inch, 2732x2048 pixels, both Liquid Retina (LCD)Pencil support: USB-C Apple Pencil, Apple Pencil ProStorage options: 128GB/256GB/512GB/1TB Weight: 1.02 pounds / 462 grams (11-inch), 1.36 pounds / 617 grams (13-inch)  ... Show more
Get it now
$599 at Apple
$599 at Amazon
Learn more
iPad Air (M3, 2025) review
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best iPad for power users and professional artists
iPad Pro (2024)
Pros
Vivid, bright Tandem OLED display
New M4 processor is crazy fast
New camera orientation for video chats
Pencil Pro offers helpful new extras
Cons
Gets very expensive fast for configurations
Magic Keyboard case still not great for Pencil use
iPadOS limits this computer's potential
If money were no object, Apple’s M4 iPad Pros would clearly be the best iPads for anyone: they’re incredibly fast with new M4 processors, they have vivid OLED displays with excellent contrast and brightness, and they have improved Pencil Pro and Magic Keyboard accessories (still sold separately). The M4 chip works with Apple Intelligence, Apple's set of AI features, and the M4 has plenty of power to last for years of OS updates to come. The
Pro is a thinner tablet too. The downside to the iPad Pro is its price: at $999 for the 11-inch or $1,299 for the 13-inch, it’s laptop-level pricing despite not running MacOS. Add in the storage you want and accessories, which won’t be cheap. For anyone who craves the best Apple tablet for creating and entertainment -- and doesn’t care about a budget -- this is your pick.Estimated battery: up to 10 hoursChip: M4Display: 11-inch, 2420x1668 pixels, or 13-inch, 2752x2064 pixels, both Ultra Retina XDR (Tandem OLED, 120Hz)Pencil support: USB-C Apple Pencil, Apple Pencil ProStorage options: 256GB/512GB/1TB/2TBWeight: 0.98 pounds / 444 grams (11-inch), 1.28 pounds / 579 grams (13-inch)  ... Show more
Get it now
$999 at Amazon
Learn more
iPad Pro (2024) review
Scott Stein/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Scott Stein/CNET
Best tiny travel iPad
iPad Mini (2024)
Pros
Compatible with Apple Intelligence
Works with Apple Pencil Pro
More storage in the base model
Cons
No new design changes
Front camera placement isn't on landscape edge
Can't multitask to external monitors
The updated iPad Mini has everything we'd like to see in Apple's entry-level iPad soon: It has a newer A17 Pro chip that supports Apple Intelligence, it works with the Pencil Pro stylus and now it has 128GB of storage in its base $499 model. The Mini hasn't changed its basic looks at all, although this tablet did get a total facelift in 2021. It's a great small tablet, but we're a little worried that its non-M-series processor may leave it out of "pro" type features down the road. It already can't run extra apps on an external monitor like M-series iPads can.Estimated battery: up to 10 hoursChip: A17 ProDisplay: 8.3-inch, 2266x1488 pixels, Liquid Retina (LCD)Pencil support: USB-C Apple Pencil, Apple Pencil ProStorage options: 128/256/512GBWeight: 0.65 pounds / 293 grams  ... Show more
Get it now
$489 at Walmart
$499 at Amazon
How we test iPads
We run benchmarks on iPads similar to how we test both iPhones and laptops, looking for single and multicore performance and graphics performance indicators that can help show relative speed gains across models. That's only part of the story. We also use iPads as everyday devices, playing games, running lots of apps, and looking at multitasking performance in split-screen mode. We look at how camera quality feels, especially for the front-facing camera in FaceTime and Zooms. We also look at accessories and which ones are available for a particular model: Apple's own keyboards and Pencils, and notable third-party options too. Factors to consider when buying an iPad
As we said above, the best iPad features right now are distributed across models, making it hard to single out a go-to "perfect" iPad right now. Price, performance, front camera quality, accessory support and display quality vary across models. Most people tend to buy iPads for family or personal use, and you'll need to decide how much you want to spend. There are also frequent sales of iPads that can change the equation too. The iPad as a product line is great overall. Models tend to have long lives, and all models on sale now are solid at running apps and games and even multitasking. The good news is all current models are good at doing a lot of things via iPadOS.The one area that the basic iPad is left out of is Apple Intelligence, Apple's suite of AI tools spread across iPadOS. These features can sometimes be helpful (message summaries, a new Siri interface, writing tools, transcription services, photo editing tools and more), so it may make sense to consider upgrading to a newer iPad for them. Even so, for basic family iPad use, you may not need them.All the current iPads, with the exception of the iPad Mini, have landscape-oriented front-facing cameras now which are much better for video chats with a keyboard attached, or standing a case up on a table. iPad, iPad Air, iPad Pro, and iPad Mini: what's the difference?Think of the iPad line as a gradual set of increases in features and price, from the entry 11th-gen iPad all the way to the iPad Pro. The Mini sits on its own, sort of a smaller (but newer) twin of the 11th-gen model.The 11th-gen model is the most affordable. It has an A16 processor onboard, but this iPad also costs less overall. The Air adds an M3 processor and more storage options, plus support for the Pencil Pro stylus. The Pro is lighter and thinner than the Air, has an even newer and faster M4 chip, a higher-quality, faster-refresh-rate OLED display that's a first for the iPad family, and both Face ID and rear lidar camera sensors.The Air and Pro feel like two versions of the same product, one nicer than the other. Both have 11 and 13-inch screen sizes, and support for Apple's Magic Keyboard cases. The 11th-gen basic iPad is a little different, with a different Apple keyboard folio case option. The new Mini also supports the Pencil Pro, but only has an A15 chip instead of an M-series like the Air/Pro line.All currently sold iPads can use Apple Intelligence, Apple's very embryonic AI revamp for iPadOS, except for the iPad 11th-gen.What is an M1/M2/M3/M4 chip and do I need it?Short answer: you don't need an M-series chip in your iPad, but having one does give some benefits. Apple's M-series chips began emerging back in the fall of 2020, delivering major gains in battery life and performance for Macs. On iPads, M1 series chips and later often deliver boosts in graphics and processing power, but to a more gradual degree than the leap on Macs felt. Older iPads used variants of iPhone-based chips, but M-series processors technically push iPads into Mac performance territory.I say "technically" because iPads are still limited by iPadOS, although M1 to M4 chips add a few particular multitasking perks to iPad models. Right now, only iPad Air and Pro models have M-series processors inside.Current iPad Air and Pro models have M-series processors (M3 and M4), while the 11th-gen iPad and iPad Mini have processors based more on what iPhone chips have. That will affect what software runs on them in the future, to some degree: Apple Intelligence, Apple's upcoming generative AI suite of services, works with the Air, Pro, and new Mini. Stage Manager's external monitor support needs M-series chips, which means only the Air and Pro can take advantage: they offer a little more multiscreen multitasking by running an extra four apps on another screen. These extras won't matter for everyday casual iPad use, but they could be downsides if you're planning to power-use your iPad like a full computer. Is the Apple Pencil worth it?Apple's Pencil stylus is an excellent tool for making art and handwriting on the iPad, and it's absolutely worth it for anyone with an interest in art on a tablet. It's not something I use very often, but Apple's tech for the Pencil is great, and the latest Pencil Pro adds even more useful extras like a rotational brush and squeeze controls with haptic feedback. You need a new iPad Pro, Air or Mini from 2024 onwards to use a Pencil Pro, but older Pencil 2 and USB-C Pencils (or the original Pencil) work well, albeit with reduced feature sets, on older iPad models.Apple's stylus lineup is more confusing than ever, but what you need to know is that the 11th-gen iPad only works with the more basic, feature-limited Pencil 1 and USB Pencil accessories. The newer iPad Air, Pro and Mini models from 2024 work the the new Pencil Pro stylus that not only has double-tap, side magnetic charging and hover-over-the-screen preview features, but adds haptic feedback, squeeze gestures, and a gyro to recognize rotational brush moves. Anyone who's deeply into art will likely want a newer iPad model for these reasons alone.
Read more: Best iPad Deals Right NowWhat's the ideal iPad screen size?iPads range in size from 8 inches (the Mini) all the way to 12.9 inches (the larger iPad Pro and Air). The Mini feels like a fancy Kindle, while the larger iPad models feel almost like the top lids of laptops.Fans of Minis appreciate them as e-readers and almost phone-like travel devices, but they're not so great for deeper laptop-like work. The 12.9-inch iPads have a different aspect ratio that favors side-by-side app multitasking and working on large documents, but they can feel heavy with a keyboard case attached. Our favorites are the 11-inch (or 10.9-inch) models (iPad 11th-gen, 11-inch iPad Air, 11-inch iPad Pro), which split the difference between compact and keyboard case-friendly. Apple was correct about this size from the beginning, and it's the size I almost always prefer.Whichever model or screen size you choose, all the current iPads support the latest version of iPadOS (a version of iOS specifically for iPads). iPadOS 18 includes a clever new feature called Math Notes that allows handwritten math equations, something that could be great for kids. That feature works on all existing iPad models, even those without M1 chips.No matter what iPad you buy, there are ways of connecting keyboard cases, Bluetooth and otherwise, although your options will vary. That's good news for anyone who wants to do more than stream videos and music, browse websites and play Apple Arcade games. Plus, all the current iPad models support mouse and trackpad use for a more MacBook-like experience. The Apple Magic Keyboard is compatible with the iPad Pro and iPad Air, but the Pro works with an improved model that has a larger clickable trackpad and extra function keys. The 11th-gen iPad has a different Magic Keyboard Folio case instead, which is less lap-friendly but has a more flexibly angled design.Are all iPad cameras the same?iPad cameras don't differ much, but there are fewer distinctions. Recent iPads all have 12MP front cameras that can also auto-track head movement during video chats (called Center Stage), but the Pro models also have Face ID-enabled TrueDepth cameras that use infrared to scan your face and are capable of some 3D-scanning tricks and AR extras. All the rear cameras are 12MP across models and can record 4K video, but the Pro adds ProRes video recording support. iPads are generally equipped with really good cameras for tablets, but they're not as good as iPhones. iPad FAQs
What is the best iPad for $500?
This is a bit of a tricky question since Apple is always angling for you to spend a little more for a better model. The entry-level 2025 iPad Air with an M3 chip is $599, although sometimes it's on sale from time to time for even less. If $500 is your hard limit, you have three choices: an 11th-gen iPad, which is perfectly functional but has an older processor; an iPad Mini, which has an improved Apple Intelligence-capable (but not M-series) chip, good-enough 128GB storage, and a small size; or, an older iPad on sale. The 10.9-inch 2022 iPad Air with an M1 chip and 256GB of storage, renewed, is often on sale for right around that price, and it might be the best way to go.
Show more
What are the differences among the top iPad models?
The 11- and 12.9-inch iPad Pro models have M4 processors, while the 2025 Air is powered by the M3 processor. The iPad Pros also have thinner and lighter designs this year, plus higher-equality tandem OLED displays and a higher-speed Thunderbolt USB-C port. The Pro also has rear lidar for depth-sensing apps and a front-facing Face ID camera, while the Air has a Touch ID fingerprint scanner in its side power button. Both the Air and Pro models have 13-inch size options now, and both support Apple's improved Pencil Pro stylus.The Mini, meanwhile, has an 8.3-inch screen, a Touch ID side button, an A17 Pro processor, and Pencil Pro support. The 11th-gen iPad lags behind all of these iPads with no Pencil Pro support (it uses the USB-C Pencil or Pencil 1) and an A16 processor, but it's also the most affordable.
Show more
Can I use an iPad instead of a MacBook?
Sort of. Its processor is as powerful as a MacBook Air's, and it works with Bluetooth keyboards and Apple trackpads. It's held back from acting as a true replacement by iPadOS; that means, among other things, no useful dual-monitor support (it can only mirror, not extend, to a second display) and no support for full desktop applications. Although you might pooh-pooh the latter -- after all, Apple says you can do it all with an iPad -- for most school and work requirements, you'll find at least one thing you need to do on a laptop. For instance, even if I could do my job on an iPad Pro (and it's not even close), to access some corporate locations I have to run the VPN, which is only available on company-issued systems. Many limitations of current mobile apps have carried through into iPadOS. In some cases, it may just be because developers are still building out apps and haven't yet gotten them to full feature-dom, although there's no guarantee they ever will get there. Adobe Lightroom is a fine "light" Lightroom, but Adobe intended it from the start to be mobile-first and thus lacks some features important to professionals, including wired tethered shooting, optimization for local file storage (rather than cloud) and the ability to intelligently handle raw plus JPEG.
Show more
What is the best note taking app for iPad?
You're in luck here. The best note-taking app is Notes, Apple's own app, which works with Apple Pencil and comes for free with iPadOS. Notes is tough to beat because it's integrated by default across Apple's own products, and supports art, scanning documents, handwriting via Apple Pencil and searchable text. If you're living on other platforms like Android and Windows, you'll probably want another third-party option like Evernote.
Show more
Is an iPad better for kids than an Android tablet?
The iPad is a pretty phenomenal kid device: it's easy to use, has tons of apps that other kids, schools and organizations are guaranteed to be using, and Apple's got a consistent, stable, and relatively affordable platform. One big missing feature on iPads is easy multi-account support on one device, something Google has on Android tablets. Google's own Pixel Tablet is a really good iPad alternative, but Google's support for its tablet ecosystem isn't as deep as Apple's for iPad.
Show more
When will new iPads arrive, and should I wait?
Apple just released new iPads, so you should be safe. The iPad Mini was released last fall, but the iPad Pro was last updated a year ago. There's always a possibility the Pro could get updated later this year, but the other models are as new as they'll be for the moment.
Show more
About the Author
Scott Stein Editor at Large Scott Stein Editor at Large
I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future.
Read full bio
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.