New VMScape attack breaks guest-host isolation on AMD, Intel CPUs
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
FinWise insider breach impacts 689K American First Finance customers
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityNew VMScape attack breaks guest-host isolation on AMD, Intel CPUs
New VMScape attack breaks guest-host isolation on AMD, Intel CPUs
By Bill Toulas
September 11, 2025
11:05 AM
0
A new Spectre-like attack dubbed VMScape allows a malicious virtual machine (VM) to leak cryptographic keys from an unmodified QEMU hypervisor process running on modern AMD or Intel CPUs.
The attack breaks the isolation between VMs and the cloud hypervisor, bypassing existing Spectre mitigations and threatening to leak sensitive data by leveraging speculative execution.
The researchers highlight that VMScape does not require compromising the host and works on unmodified virtualization software with default mitigations enabled on the hardware.
They note that a threat actor could deploy such an attack against a cloud provider by simply renting a virtual machine to leak secrets from the hypervisor or other VMs.
VMScape was developed by a team of researchers at ETH Zurich public university in Switzerland, who discovered that it affects all AMD processors from Zen 1 to Zen 5, as well as Intel’s “Coffee Lake” CPUs. The newer, “Raptor Cove” and “Gracemont” are not impacted.
Leaking secrets from QEMU
Modern CPUs protect against speculative attacks by extending isolation to branch prediction units (BPU) between the guest and host, but the researchers discovered that this isolation is incomplete.
Host to guest separationSource: ETH Zurich
A guest user can influence indirect branch prediction in a host user process due to shared BPU structures like the BTB (Branch Target Buffer), IBP/ITA, and BHB (Branch History Buffer).
The attack targets QEMU, the user-mode hypervisor component, which maps guest memory into its address space, enabling the use of a ‘FLUSH+RELOAD’ cache side channel.
ETH Zurich researchers used a Spectre-BTI (Branch Target Injection) attack to misguide a target indirect branch in QEMU so it speculatively executes a disclosure gadget that leaks secret data into the shared reload buffer.
Overview of the attackSource: ETH Zurich
To extend the speculative execution window, the attacker evicts relevant cache entries from inside the guest by building eviction sets targeting the Last-Level Cache (LLC) on AMD Zen 4 CPUs.
ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization), a security feature that randomizes the memory addresses where data is loaded in a process, is defeated by probing for branch collisions to locate the victim gadget and brute-forcing the virtual address of the reload buffer.
ETH Zurich researchers showed that VMScape leaks arbitrary memory data from QEMU at a rate of 32 bytes/second, with a byte-level accuracy of 98.7%, and an overall exploit success rate of 43%.
At this rate, a 4KB secret, such as a disk encryption key, could be leaked in 128 seconds. The total end-to-end time, including the ASLR bypassing process, would be 772 seconds, or just under 13 minutes.
Impact and response
Virtualization is the backbone of cloud computing, and if one guest machine can read memory from the host, it threatens multi-tenant cloud security.
However, it is essential to emphasize that attacks like VMScape require advanced knowledge, deep technical expertise, and sustained execution time. Because of this, such attacks, even if possible, do not represent a threat to the larger userbase.
Processor generations impacted by VMScapeSource: ETH Zurich
The ETH Zurich team reported their findings to AMD and Intel on June 7, and the issue received the identifier CVE-2025-40300. AMD has released a security bulletin about the problem.
Linux kernel developers released patches that mitigate VMScape by adding an IBPB (Indirect Branch Prediction Barrier) on VMEXIT, effectively flushing the BPU when switching from guest to host. The researchers say that this mitigation has minimal performance impact in common workloads.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Panama Ministry of Economy discloses breach claimed by INC ransomwareAI-powered malware hit 2,180 GitHub accounts in “s1ngularity” attackWindows 11 KB5064081 update clears up CPU usage metrics in Task ManagerMicrosoft Word will save your files to the cloud by defaultIT system supplier cyberattack impacts 200 municipalities in Sweden
AMD
Cloud
CPU
Data Leak
Hardware
Intel
Speculative Execution
Virtual Machine
VMscape
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Samsung patches actively exploited zero-day reported by WhatsApp
New HybridPetya ransomware can bypass UEFI Secure Boot
Windows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 days
Sponsor Posts
How to tell if your organization’s credentials have been exposed?
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT