Best VR Headsets of 2025: My Favorite Hardware Right Now - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Tech Gaming
Best VR Headsets of 2025: My Favorite Hardware Right Now
The future may belong to AR glasses, but the present is all about VR. Here are my go-to options.
Our Experts
Written by
Scott Stein
Article updated on February 12, 2025 at 9:15 AM PST
Scott Stein Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future. Expertise VR and AR | Gaming | Metaverse technologies | Wearable tech | Tablets Credentials Nearly 20 years writing about tech, and over a decade reviewing wearable tech, VR, and AR products and apps
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
I've looked at VR and AR headsets for well over a decade, from Google Glass and the first demos of the Oculus Rift to peeks at the future of AR glasses and Android XR. Right now, VR has settled down to just a few players: Meta, Apple, Sony, Valve, HTC and Pico, with Google's looming Android XR partnership with Samsung waiting in the wings. In the world of AR and smart glasses, there could be a lot of changes coming: the Xreal One glasses, for instance, or the promise of Meta's Orion project. Our Picks
Best overall VR headset Meta Quest 3
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best affordable VR headset Meta Quest 3S
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best high-end console gaming VR headset with PC benefits PlayStation VR 2
Jump to details
$272 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best standalone VR/AR computer The Apple Vision Pro
Jump to details
$3,499 at Apple
Jump to details
Best Steam VR hardware
Valve Index
Jump to details
$999 at Steam
Jump to details
Experience immersive VR gaming and entertainment Meta Quest 3
Jump to details
$500 at Meta
Jump to details
Show 1 more
Featured Deal What is this?
Experience immersive VR gaming and entertainment Meta Quest 3
Jump to details
$500 at Meta
Jump to details
VR HEADSET DEALS OF THE WEEK
Meta Quest 3S 128GB VR Headset:  $299 (save $1)
Meta Quest 3S 256GB With Batman: Arkham Shadow and 3-Month Meta Quest Plus:  $400 (save $0)
Meta Quest 3 512GB With Batman: Arkham Shadow and 3-Month Meta Quest Plus:  $499 (save $1) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best VR Headsets of 2025: My Favorite Hardware Right Now
What's the best VR headset overall?
Best VR headsets of 2025
Best overall VR headset
Best affordable VR headset
Best high-end console gaming VR headset with PC benefits
Best standalone VR/AR computer
Best Steam VR hardware
Experience immersive VR gaming and entertainment
Other VR headsets we've tested
How I test VR headsets
Factors to consider when buying a VR headset
VR headset FAQs
But right now, VR is extremely good -- and still limited in how much it can do. I find my own use of VR headsets bouncing between Meta's Quest 3 and the Apple Vision Pro. But it's pretty clear there's one great VR headset pick of the moment, and it comes in two differently priced flavors.What's the best VR headset overall?The Meta Quest 3 offers mixed reality and improved display resolution and optics, and is $500 -- $3,000 less than the Apple Vision Pro. However, the newer Meta Quest 3S, a lower-cost version of the Quest 3 for $300, is an even better buy for entry-level VR adopters. I prefer the Quest 3, but there are plenty of people who will find the 3S to be a great choice for its price.The Quest 3 and 3S both have newer, faster Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2 processors that produce better graphics and allow for higher-res color pass-through camera feeds than the Quest 2, and both have redesigned controllers. Both can create mixed reality effects by blending what the cameras see with VR graphics that are overlaid in the headset to look like AR. The Quest 3 has better lenses and a higher display resolution, but I prefer the feel of the Quest 3S eyepiece on my face, and the 3S also seems to have slightly better hand tracking in low light.The Quest platform has plenty of side benefits: It has hundreds of games and creative or productivity apps, and several great fitness programs for effective cardio workouts. It can connect to PCs and even double as a work device if you have some patience. It also has hand tracking that works without controllers, but controllers are included to give you two input options. The Quests can even play “spatial” 3D videos shot on newer iPhones.Read more: The Best VR Games to Play in 2025Best VR headsets of 2025
Scott Stein/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Scott Stein/CNET
Best overall VR headset
Meta Quest 3
8.9
/10
SCORE
Pros
Crisp high-res displays
Improved new processor
Mixed reality with better color cameras
Smaller controllers with better haptics
Cons
More expensive than Quest 2
Few unique apps and games at launch
Straps and comfort still aren't great
Still only 2-3 hours battery life
Meta's upgraded VR sequel to the Quest 2 feels like a notable revamp, with improvements across the board: a slightly smaller design, better, clearer lenses, a higher-res display, smaller controllers with better haptics and higher-res color cameras that can mix the real world and the virtual together. This "mixed reality" is similar in spirit to what Apple's Vision Pro will do but in a lower-res form for a lot less money. Although the Quest 3 has great upgrades, it doesn't really change the equation much on the general way the headset and software function. That being said, the Quest 3's display quality and graphics performance are stunning for its price. Quest apps and the OS are largely the same, and mixed reality is mostly a gimmick for the moment that's only featured in a handful of new games and apps, although seeing your surroundings with the headset on (and even checking messages on your phone) is a lot easier now. The headset's comfort level isn't any better, and hand tracking still is fine but not perfect, although it's getting better.The Quest 3 is likely to be the best VR headset in its price class for the next few years. Its excellent display quality and improved wireless connectivity also make it a good choice for PC VR gamers: it works as a connected PC headset just like other Quest models do. And the Quest's multi-use appeal -- as a game console, a creative or work device, and even a fitness tool -- give it tremendous versatility. It remains one of the most exciting gadgets you can buy for $500.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$500 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Display
LCD, 2,064x2,208 pixels per eyeEye tracking
NoProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2Works with glasses
Yes
Learn more
Meta Quest 3 review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best affordable VR headset
Meta Quest 3S
8.7
/10
SCORE
Pros
Updated graphics and faster processor
Improved color passthrough cameras
Better hand tracking
Cons
No improvement to lenses or resolution vs Quest 2
Only 2-3 hours battery life
The Meta Quest 3S (Meta's replacement to my longstanding Editor's Choice headset, the Quest 2) is super-affordable at $300 and comes with updated graphics and color passthrough cameras that give the 3S the same gaming and mixed reality powers as the Quest 3. It's a fantastic budget buy, but Meta cut corners on the display and lens quality with the 3S, choosing to use the same fresnel lenses and LCD display as the Quest 2. It's perfectly fine for general VR and gaming, but the more expensive Quest 3's notably clearer lenses and crisper resolution are my favorite for all-day use and for reading text. The Quest 3S also comes with a free game, Batman: Arkham Shadow, adding to its value.There is another unique advantage to the Quest 3S: its hand tracking is better in lower light than the Quest 3. That might be something that makes some apps work better, especially for viewing movies and shows casually when traveling.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$300 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Display
LCD, 1,842x1,920 pixels per eyeEye tracking
NoProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon XR2 Gen 2Works with glasses
Yes
Learn more
Meta Quest 3S review
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
James Martin/CNET
Best high-end console gaming VR headset with PC benefits
PlayStation VR 2
8.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Vivid, high-res OLED display
Comfortable fit
Excellent controllers
Realistic vibrations
Powerful graphics potential
Cons
Expensive
Needs to be cabled to PS5
Included earbuds are just OK
Doesn't work with old PSVR games
Game library needs more exclusives
The PSVR 2 is expensive ($550), and needs a PlayStation 5 to even work. It's tethered, not wireless. And Sony hasn't supported the PSVR 2 with enough unique games to justify its existence. The PSVR 2 is still a fun luxury if you're a PS5 gamer who also owns a PC. Its HDR OLED display, graphics quality, built-in eye tracking and fantastic advanced controllers -- which have the same vibrations and adaptive force-feedback triggers as the PS5 DualSense controllers -- give this headset a premium feel that makes its best games perform at a different level. It has some exclusives like Gran Turismo 7, Resident Evil Village and Horizon: Call of the Mountain, but not enough.The PSVR 2 lacks any social metaverse-type software so far and feels more like a headset designed to just launch and play VR games. Many of the games for this headset are ports of titles you could get on devices like the Quest instead. Sony hasn't supported the PSVR 2 much, and a recent PC gaming adapter that gives the headset Steam compatibility is useful, but also clunky to connect with a necessary breakout box. It's still fun as long as you keep expectations within reach and accept the games that already exist.  ... Show more
Get it now
$272 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Display
OLED, 2,000x2,040 pixels per eyeEye tracking
YesProcessor
Requires tethering to PS5 to workWorks with glasses
Yes
Learn more
PlayStation VR 2 review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best standalone VR/AR computer
The Apple Vision Pro
7.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Amazing micro-OLED display
A mostly fluid hand-eye control interface
Blends the real and virtual worlds impressively
iOS support folds in tons of familiar apps for work
Playing back personal 3D memories feels transporting
Cons
Extremely expensive
Hand-eye interface isn't always perfect
Not many VisionOS optimized apps yet
External battery and cord required for use
Doesn't work over glasses
The Apple Vision Pro is an amazing piece of tech and a bleeding-edge high-end mixed reality headset that also runs iOS and thousands of iPad apps, works without controllers using eye and hand tracking and can run multiple apps at the same time, along with being a virtual MacBook monitor. However, it's way too expensive for anyone but XR professionals and early adopters. The 4K micro-OLED displays are stunning, and videos and photos look fantastic. Apple’s device requires a tethered battery pack, is only made to work within Apple’s ecosystem and doesn’t have many unique apps yet at launch that do more than act as floating 2D screens. The Vision Pro could very well be the start of a whole new chapter in headsets and may turn into the best product in this whole category over time, but not right now for most people. At its current price and software limits, you’re better off waiting and trying a free demo instead. And, now that it's been around for over a year, it's hard to tell when Apple will update this headset to something with newer processors. The Quest 3 and 3S are far cheaper tickets to explore similar ideas in the meantime at a huge discount.Apple stands alone in the category of "standalone mixed reality computer headset" because, really, nothing else out there does exactly what the Vision Pro does. Most VR headsets to date have focused on games and individual immersive creative and work apps to explore ideas in mixed reality. Apple’s Vision Pro takes a very different path by folding in almost all of iOS. Having familiar Apple services and thousands of iOS apps floating in virtual workspaces feels like a future where our existing devices and VR/AR finally dovetail.The Vision Pro also has a phenomenal micro-OLED display that plays movies incredibly well. The hand/eye tracking feels futuristic too and, at its best, it’s far more of a mouse/trackpad replacement than Meta’s hand tracking on Quest. Its mixed reality capabilities are the best we’ve ever seen, with passthrough cameras that are the best quality of any standalone device.The Vision Pro needs more apps to make the most of its potential and lacks many of the games and fitness experiences that Quest offers. As a work device, once some of the early software quirks are ironed out, it’s got incredible promise -- it can act as a surprisingly great virtual monitor for Macs, too. As a fancy travel home theater for someone with $3,499 to spend, it’s also fascinating. At this price, no matter how stunning the experience can be, it’s a product most people should wait on or simply try a demo of first. Keep in mind that the Vision Pro doesn’t work with glasses (you’ll need Zeiss prescription lens inserts, a separate $100-$150 purchase), and the headset has its own tethered battery pack that has to be used along with the device, making it feel less self-contained than the Quest.  ... Show more
Get it now
$3,499 at Apple
Specs & Configurations
Display
Micro-OLED, unknown specific resolution (Apple states 4K per eye)Eye tracking
YesProcessor
Apple M2Works with glasses
No
Learn more
The Apple Vision Pro review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best Steam VR hardware
Valve Index
Pros
Excellent SteamVR compatibility
Good audio
Innovative controllers
Cons
Requires external room sensors for tracking
Display resolution lags behind current headsets
Valve's headset isn't as cutting-edge as it was when it debuted in 2020, but its Steam VR and Vive hardware compatibility, excellent audio and fancy controllers still make it hardware worth considering. Valve's "knuckle" controllers are pressure-sensitive and can track all five fingers, making them almost like gloves. Not all apps make the most of them, but Valve's hardware is mix-and-match compatible with the HTC Vive, which also is built on the Steam VR platform. The Index headset has excellent audio, but its display resolution is no longer as good as competitors'. The Index also needs external "lighthouse" boxes similar to the HTC Vive for tracking, meaning you need to set those up in a room first. It's not as self-contained as the Quest 2 or HP Reverb G2, which can track the room with in-headset cameras. It's also definitely not wireless, but if you already have some older HTC Vive hardware, you could add on parts of the Index to mix and match. It feels like this hardware could be due for an upgrade sooner than later.  ... Show more
Get it now
$999 at Steam
Specs & Configurations
Display
LCD, 1,440x1,600 pixels per eyeEye tracking
NoConnection
Requires connection with PC to work, and external room sensorsWorks with glasses
Yes
Learn more
Valve Index review
Add to compare
CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET
Experience immersive VR gaming and entertainment
Meta Quest 3
Get ready for the most powerful Meta Quest yet. Dive into full immersion with brilliant 4K resolution and rich spatial audio, feeling like you're inside your favorite games. Stream shows on giant vibrant screens anywhere in your home, or enjoy the ultimate experience with Infinite Display’s widest field of view. With premium comfort and wireless design, you can move freely in workouts or take your headset on the go. And when you buy a Meta Quest 3 now, you’ll get $30 in Quest Cash.  ... Show more
Get it now
$500 at Meta
Other VR headsets we've tested
Meta Quest Pro: This older, outdated, eye-tracking-equipped Quest headset can track facial expressions and has a crisp display, but the less expensive Quest 3 already makes it obsolete with its better graphics, cameras and display resolution.HTC Vive XR Elite: The glasses-like design of the XR Elite is a sign of the future, but the software and performance of this headset don't justify its price.PlayStation VR: The original PSVR still works on the PlayStation 4 and 5, but it's not compatible with PSVR 2 games and hardware. It still has some great games to discover, but its lack of dedicated controllers and awkward setup feels ancient. How I test VR headsets
Although mainstream VR headsets have been around for nearly a decade, the apps they run and the computers, phones and game consoles they work with keep changing. I run key apps and software on the headsets, using them mainly in standalone mode if they're designed to be self-contained, or with a PC, game console or phone if they're primarily meant as connected peripherals.I use the headsets for a mix of work, gaming, fitness and creative uses, and stay attentive to where the headsets have pain points (moments of discomfort, feelings of disconnect or sensations of nausea or distortion). Using technology like VR can often be a highly subjective experience, but by being attentive to details I find I can discover where each product is uniquely useful.Comparison is also key: I've looked at pretty much every wearable AR and VR device of the last 15 years and also covered a lot of the wearable tech, phone and computer landscape. How these devices work as game consoles, fitness devices, work accessories and social tools are all key areas. I also think about displays, audio, controllers and accommodations for eyeglasses. Factors to consider when buying a VR headset
VR and AR sometimes feel like product categories that never quite seem to become mainstream, but change is coming fast to the headset landscape.Google and Samsung are introducing a new VR/AR platform later this year called Android XR. Samsung's Project Moohan is a Vision Pro-like headset that will also run Google's Gemini AI and plenty of Google Play apps. Expect Android XR to forge a bridge between Android phones and headsets and glasses, although it's hard to tell how fast that shift will happen. Samsung's headset, which doesn't have a price or release date yet, looks to be the only Android XR device in 2025. Android XR could be the future, but right now, it's hard to tell whether you should wait for it. Qualcomm's future plans for VR and AR lean on phones as a way to power smaller glasses, but so far there aren't any of these smaller devices that we'd recommend.In the meantime, Apple's $3,499 Vision Pro headset -- a self-contained, standalone VR/AR device that Apple is positioning as a full spatial computer -- is the highest-price device on the consumer market, with a very different pitch than games-focused devices like the Meta Quest. Its ability to run all sorts of iOS apps and have multiple apps open at once make it a unique option, and its possibilities as an iOS mixed reality computer, paired with its fantastic display quality and unique input method of hand-eye tracking, might make it a promising device for creators, researchers and anyone with a large enough wallet to pay for a high-end personal cinema on their face. It also emphasizes things like computing and video quality instead of what are still the Quest's greatest strengths: gaming and fitness. But it's over a year old now, and Apple could be shifting to a more affordable version in the next couple of years.The Vision Pro isn't the only mixed reality VR headset out there: Expect more in this category, which blends VR with video of your surroundings using color passthrough cameras that feel almost like augmented reality. The Quest 3 is the most affordable mainstream mixed-reality VR headset, and Apple's is the most expensive. Samsung's Project Moohan will also feature mixed reality, and I expect plenty more to come.Sony's $550 PlayStation VR 2 delivers a great console gaming VR experience for PlayStation 5 owners and includes eye tracking like Apple's Vision Pro, but isn't wireless and is still a relatively expensive accessory (it costs more than the PS5 itself). It's more expensive than both the Quest 2 and Quest 3, and still needs a PS5 to work, but costs far less than a Vision Pro (although it serves a completely different purpose and relies on a limited set of PlayStation VR games to even function). Its more limited library and functions make it less versatile than a Quest, but a fun Quest alternative for anyone deep into Sony's PlayStation 5 ecosystem. However, the PSVR 2 right now feels like it's not really where the future of headsets is heading.For PC owners, there are several options. You could use a Quest 3, Quest 3S, PSVR 2, or consider several existing devices. The biggest previous players in the PC VR gaming scene (Microsoft, Valve and HTC) have been quiet on that front, especially now that Microsoft has discontinued most of its mixed reality efforts and VR headset compatibility. That could change again soon. A PC-connected VR headset can offer the most versatile collection of software for an immersive VR experience, and it also lets you use that headset for creative and business tools. Steam is clearly the best conduit for PC VR right now.The cost of a new VR headset is going up these days. If price is your biggest concern, the Quest 3S currently offers the best value in VR: a completely wireless experience, with access to a great library of fantastic games.  VR headset FAQs
Should I wait to buy a VR headset?
Right now, the Quest 3 and Quest 3S are great devices to try without spending a lot. The Apple Vision Pro, on the other hand, is an extremely expensive new product you definitely should wait on (but try a demo of). With a Google and Samsung's Android XR headset arriving later this year, plus possible entries from HTC and maybe even Valve on the horizon, there could be many headsets on the way that are better than what's here at the moment. VR is a technology that's still in flux. The Meta Quest 3 models are a very safe buy right now, though, and Meta isn't expected to have a new Quest headset in 2025.
Show more
What should I look for in a VR headset?
It really depends on whether you're connecting to a PC or not, and whether you plan to do work with it. There are plenty of Steam VR PC-compatible headsets, but they vary in display resolution. Higher is better, and so is a larger field of view. Headsets can refresh at up to 120Hz now, and the faster they refresh, the more natural and smooth VR movement feels. Do you want a headset that works as an Apple services-connected computer, like Apple's Vision Pro? For fitness, remember that the Quest is the best option with its various accessories, apps, and fitness app hook-ins.For gamers with a PlayStation 5, the PSVR 2 is the best option, and it also has a PC VR adapter now. Also, consider the app libraries: The Quest has a lot of exclusive games, and Steam-based PC-connected headsets have lots of compatibility with work apps and experimental tools. The PSVR 2 has its own library of games that aren't backward-compatible with original PSVR games.
Show more
Do any of these headsets work with phones?
The old world of phone-based VR headsets -- like the Samsung Gear VR and Google Daydream -- is basically dead. A good number of the current iPhone, Android and VR app options don't even work with the old mobile VR goggles. The Quest does have a phone app for streaming content for a parent to monitor and can receive phone notifications and sync some health data for workouts. Apple's Vision Pro doesn't connect to iPhones at all, except to AirPlay an iPhone's display in-headset. Google's Android XR should connect phones and future headsets, starting with Samsung's Project Moohan, but we may not see a ton of new devices for Android XR until next year.
Show more
How do I care for my VR headset?
VR headsets can get dusty and grimy. Take extra care with the lenses, which should be cleaned gently with microfiber cloths the same way you'd treat glasses (but don't use liquid cleaners). A slightly damp paper towel (just wet with a bit of water) can help clean off exteriors. It's a good idea to invest in a case or bag to protect the headset from dust and keep your headset covered when not in use. Take extra care not to expose your VR headset to bright sunlight: The sun can damage VR displays if beams hit the lenses of the headset. To be safe, I keep mine in cases, turn the lenses away from windows, and cover them with an old t-shirt or towel if I don't have a case.
Show more
About the Author
Scott Stein Editor at Large Scott Stein Editor at Large
I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.