authentication - Current standard for implementing a username + password login for a web application - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Current standard for implementing a username + password login for a web application
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
29 times
0
After a few years of working at the back of the backend, I'm back working on a full-stack project. We need a username + password login with MFA which I'll use a TOTP for. There will be no third-party identity providers.
I thought this is a simple enough question but went down the rabbit hole of Oauth2 and OIDC and I just can't find a definitive answer for my simple scenario.
My web app is a single page progressive web app (i.e. installable on the home screen on a mobile device). The app backend is pretty much a monolith, with an API Gateway service in front and a separate authentication service. Arch diagram attached.
I'm thinking about a "standard" refresh token + JWT access token approach. The refresh token is sent as a cookie and access token in the response payload from the AuthN service. Frontend sends Authorization: Bearer
headers in requests with access token from local storage, and uses refresh token from cookie to get new access tokens.
Now a few questions:
Are there any security holes in this approach?
Is there a better/more standard/more secure way to do it?
Is it following any standards? Is it mimicking part of Oauth2/OIDC?
This application runs on small scale (less than 10 requests/minute). Does it even make sense to have access tokens? Why not just send the refresh token with every request?
ps: The authentication service is separated because we have separate DBs for auth data and application data access to them are restricted on a network level. So the application monolith does not have access to the auth data and the authentication service does not have access to the application data. This is to reduce attack surface for an SQLi attack, for example.
authenticationoauth-2.0jwtprogressive-web-appssingle-page-application
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 17 at 17:54
user2268997user2268997
1,41122 gold badges1616 silver badges4343 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
667
JWT (JSON Web Token) automatic prolongation of expiration
301
OAuth 2.0: Benefits and use cases — why?
226
Why do access tokens expire?
Related questions
667
JWT (JSON Web Token) automatic prolongation of expiration
301
OAuth 2.0: Benefits and use cases — why?
226
Why do access tokens expire?
396
SPA best practices for authentication and session management
159
Where to store the refresh token on the Client?
599
Validate a username and password against Active Directory?
110
Is a Refresh Token really necessary when using JWT token authentication?
451
How to secure MongoDB with username and password
220
Refreshing OAuth token using Retrofit without modifying all calls
1
Will the refresh tokens issue new access token if a compromised access token is sent to the server?
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
authenticationoauth-2.0jwtprogressive-web-appssingle-page-application
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
How to block an entire page with uBlock Origin?
I have so many results I don't know how to write the results in my research paper
How does boss dialogue change if fought at max level?
Trying to understand the fundamental behavior of parallel connections
How to scale down a TikZ/PGFPlots figure with matching font size and good PNG quality
Tooth cavities in 4 year old kid
Difficult triple stops in Grand Caprice (Erlkönig) for Violin Solo Op. 26: measure 9
What species of plum is this? (France, mid-September)
Prospective new PI wants to chat with former PI who kicked me out. What to do?
How to make the frameticks point outward?
Submitted the same research article in two journals, now I'm scared
Why is my battery being zapped?
How to remove BitLocker encryption for a volume that does not have a drive-letter
Can I use Heroic Inspiration on a natural 1 on an Attack roll?
What does, "as having nothing" mean in 2 Corinthians 6:10?
post hoc tests after running repeated measures ANOVA
In Much Ado About Nothing, why aren't the lines: "...live in THINE heart ... buried in THINE eyes"? (V.2.102-3)
If a partition that has always been able to be mounted normally,suddenly cannot be mounted and enters Emergency Mode,what might be the reason?
Is there a way to name 1,4-dimethylcyclohexan-1-ol in a way that indicates the methyl groups must be cis?
What is the probe like structure next to the static port on this cessna 172?
PCIe to SGMII/RGMII for Automotive Ethernet card
Making `apt-get` read answers from stdin on graphical Ubuntu
How does energy abundance affect materials science?
Transitioning a file encryption application to Post Quantum Cryptography
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211