10 Best CBD Oils Of 2025: Tested & Reviewed – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
CBD
10 Best CBD Oils Of 2025: Tested & Reviewed
Published: Aug 20, 2025, 11:42am
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Written By
Meaghan Harmon
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
Integrative Medicine / Functional Medicine
Dr. Bindiya Gandhi is a double board-certified integrative and family medicine physician with expertise in functional and holistic medicine. She is the medical director at Revive Atlanta MD, a comprehensive clinic focused on total body healing, inclu...
See Full Bio
Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
Integrative Medicine / Functional Medicine
Dr. Bindiya Gandhi is a double board-certified integrative and family medicine physician with expertise in functional and holistic medicine. She is the medical director at Revive Atlanta MD, a comprehensive clinic focused on total body healing, inclu...
See Full Bio
Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
Integrative Medicine / Functional Medicine
Dr. Bindiya Gandhi is a double board-certified integrative and family medicine physician with expertise in functional and holistic medicine. She is the medical director at Revive Atlanta MD, a comprehensive clinic focused on total body healing, inclu...
See Full Bio
Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
Integrative Medicine / Functional Medicine
Dr. Bindiya Gandhi is a double board-certified integrative and family medicine physician with expertise in functional and holistic medicine. She is the medical director at Revive Atlanta MD, a comprehensive clinic focused on total body healing, inclu...
See Full Bio
Medically Reviewed
|
Integrative Medicine / Functional Medicine
& 1 other
Published: Aug 20, 2025, 11:42am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Consuming products formulated with cannabidiol (CBD) may offer numerous health benefits, from reducing anxiety to improving quality of sleep and more. In fact, a Forbes Health survey of 2,000 U.S. adults conducted by OnePoll found 60% of respondents have tried a CBD product and believe it offers some medicinal benefits.
However, with so many CBD oils and tinctures available (and a lack of federal regulation), consumers may not know where or how to begin their search for a safe and effective product. To assist readers in their search, Forbes Health deeply analyzed 23 data points—including ingredients, potency, and more—on over 150 CBD oil products. From there, we sent our top CBD oils to a laboratory for testing of potency, quality and presence of contaminants. Here are the CBD oils that made it to our top ten.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about CBD that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our CBD methodology for the rankings below.
70+ CBD brands considered
150+ CBD oil products evaluated
23 metrics analyzed
Over 15 products sent to a third-party laboratory to be evaluated for potency, safety and quality
Show More
Find The Best CBD Products
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD for Anxiety
Best CBD for Pain
Best CBD for Sleep
Best CBD Creams
CBD Benefits
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Best CBD Oil of 2025
Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
Redeem Therapeutics Full Spectrum CBD Oil 750 mg
Extract Labs Organic CBD Oil Daily Support
Extract Labs Organic CBD Isolate Oil Daily Support
R&R Multifunctional CBD Tinctures
Cornbread Hemp Whole Flower USDA Organic CBD Oil
Carmen’s Medicinals CBD Oil - 1500MG
Vena Full Spectrum CBD Tincture
Bluebird Botanicals THC Free CBD Oil CBD Isolate
Methodology: How We Picked the Best CBD Oils and Tinctures in 2025
What Is CBD Oil?
How to Choose the Best CBD Oil for You
What Are the Three Different Types of CBD Oil?
Health Benefits of CBD Oil
How Do You Take CBD Oil?
Summary: Compare the Best CBD Oil in 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services. Enjoy 25% Off Your Order 	Using Code FORBES25	Aspen Green – Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD OilPhysician Formulated and USDA Certified OrganicFormulated with full-spectrum CBDHelps alleviate aches, pain and discomfort while promoting repair and recoveryBlended with wellness-boosting botanicals to help promote mobility and keep you moving wellFree from toxins, formaldehydes, phthalates, parabens, and sulfates	Shop Now	On Aspen Green's Website
Best CBD Oil of 2025
When reviewing CBD oil product details, including the results of the third-party laboratory certificates of analysis (COAs), it’s important to clarify several key terms:
Cannabidiol (CBD): One of the most abundant, non-intoxicating psychoactive compounds in the cannabis sativa plant that research indicates may offer a number of health benefits, such as sleep and anxiety support
Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): One of the most abundant active compounds in the cannabis sativa plant that produces the intoxicating, psychoactive “high” often associated with cannabis (not to exceed 0.03% by dry weight in any product according to the 2018 Farm Bill)
Terpenes: Active compounds responsible for a plant’s aroma, as well as potentially health-promoting properties like antibacterial and antimicrobial effects
Mycotoxins: Toxins produced by a variety of molds (fungi) that can contaminate food and negatively affect health if consumed
Pesticides: Chemical substances used for pest control, primarily in farmed or cultivated land and domestic environments; exposure in large quantities may pose a threat to human health
Heavy metals: Naturally occurring essential and non-essential metals that can be dangerous to human health when consumed in high concentrations
Homogeneity: Measurement indicating potency is equal from one product to another
Note: Forbes Health submitted specific batches and potencies of each CBD oil to Nova Analytic Labs for testing, and batch results may vary.
Best Value CBD Oil	Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $40 ($1.33 per 1-milliliter serving)Type: Full spectrumPotency: 50 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter servingAvailable in three flavors (classic, chocolate mint and strawberry lemonade)Free from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On CBD.co's Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter.Potency: Low Potency (52.7 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD):52.7 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 1.58 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 57.4 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItLazarus Naturals CBD oil tincture is made from hemp grown on the company’s farm, where it’s extracted via an ethanol process and diluted with fractionated coconut oil to ensure accurate CBD potency. Each tincture is tested by a third-party laboratory for pesticides, heavy metals and potency, and the results are available directly on the company website. These results are also consistent with Forbes Health third-party lab test findings.User reviews on the manufacturer website praise Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture, saying “nothing else compares” to its formula. Some reviews also praise the pain-relieving qualities of the tincture.	Pros & ConsContains additional cannabinoids, including cannabichromene (CBC) and cannabigerol (CBG), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingMade with organic ingredients, including organic hempseed oil, organic coconut MCT oil and organic full-spectrum hemp extractClear dosing instructions offered on the product websiteComes with a dropper demarcated every .25 milliliters for customizable dosingTwo sizes available: 30 milliliters containing 1,500 milligrams of CBD and 120 milliliters containing 6,000 milligrams of CBDContains coconut and may be unsafe for people with tree nut allergiesNot suitable for consumers looking for a THC-free productNo subscription purchase option for savings
Best CBD Oil With Spray Applicator	Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $49.99 (83 cents per 0.5-milliliter serving) Type: Broad spectrumPotency: 25 milligrams of CBD per 0.5-milliliter servingAvailable in three flavors (honey lemon, orange citrus, spearmint)Free from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Redeem Therapeutics' Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter. Potency: Very Low Potency (28.1 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 28.1 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): Not detected
Total cannabinoids: 29.9 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItRedeem Therapeutics Broad Spectrum Hemp Extract may be a great choice for experienced CBD users and beginners alike, especially those hoping to find a product free of delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Meanwhile, in addition to containing almost 30 milligrams of CBD per 0.5-milliliter serving, this oil also contains a variety of cannabinoids and terpenes, which may enhance its beneficial health effects. However, this product’s potency varies from the label per results of Forbes Health-facilitated testing, meaning it’s more potent than a consumer may anticipate.Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture has a five-star rating on the manufacturer website, with some reviews expressing appreciation of the product’s potential to relieve arthritis pain. A second review praises the product for its lack of hemp taste and calming qualities. 	Pros & ConsContains additional terpenes and cannabinoids, including cannabigerol (CBG) and cannabinol (CBN), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectFormulated with USDA-certified organic hempSuitable for consumers looking for a THC-free productCompany offers a 60-day money-back guaranteeVegan friendly and gluten freeManufactured in a laboratory that adheres to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) current good manufacturing practices (cGMP)Lab-tested CBD potency shows more than 5 grams higher per serving than product labeling suggestsContains stevia, which may not be appealing to all consumersOnly one potency available
Best CBD Oil for Customizable Dosing	Redeem Therapeutics Full Spectrum CBD Oil 750 mg
4.9
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $39.99 (67 cents per 0.5-milliliter serving) Type: Full spectrumPotency: 12.5 milligrams of CBD per 0.5-milliliter servingAvailable in two flavors (mint or natural)Free from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Redeem Therapeutics' Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter. Potency: Very Low Potency (14.8 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 0.5-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 14.8 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 0.40 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 15.2 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItWith a low potency, this Redeem CBD oil may be a good choice for someone looking to tend to mild to moderate symptoms of anxiety or pain, according to the company. It may also be a quality option for someone new to CBD looking to experience the effects of a full-spectrum oil. What’s more, consumers can choose between a graduated glass dropper or spray applicator, depending on their desired form of application. Reviews posted on the manufacturer’s website emphasize Redeem Therapeutics Full Spectrum CBD Oil’s potential to be used as a sleep aid. Redeem Therapeutics was also lauded by users for its well-designed packaging and fast shipping of a product that tastes great. 	Pros & ConsTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingManufactured with USDA-certified organic hempOrganic, vegan friendly and gluten freeCompany adheres to current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) regulationsCustomers who sign up for subscription delivery save 30%Company offers a 60-day money-back guaranteeMay be unsuitable for those with tree nut allergies, as it contains coconutSome consumers may prefer a higher potencyNot suitable for individuals who prefer to avoid THC
Best High-Potency Full-Spectrum CBD Oil	Extract Labs Organic CBD Oil Daily Support
4.8
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $59.99 ($1.99 per 1-milliliter serving)Type: Full spectrumPotency: 200 milligrams per 1-milliliter serving in highest potency optionAvailable in one natural flavorFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Extract Labs' Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter.Potency: Very High Potency (206 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 206 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 1.8 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 217 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItWhile this CBD oil is one of the most expensive on our list, it’s available in a range of potencies (1,000 milligrams, 3,000 milligrams and 6,000 milligrams), making it more accessible in terms of price and suitable for customers with a range of CBD experience levels and strength preferences. Of note, the measured CBD potency is over 5 milligrams per serving higher than the label suggests, per Forbes Health facilitated laboratory testing, meaning some customers may find the potency too high for their needs or comfort level. The brand website touts a 4.7-star rating out of five, based on over 10,000 customer reviews. 	Pros & ConsContains additional terpenes and cannabinoids, including cannabichromene (CBC), cannabigerol (CBG) and cannabinol (CBN), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectManufactured with USDA-certified organic ingredientsVegan friendlyCompany adheres to current good manufacturing practices (cGMP)Available in three potencies to satisfy varying customer preferencesSimple ingredient list of organic fractionated coconut oil and organic full-spectrum hemp oilMeasured potency over 5 milligrams higher per serving compared to product labelMore expensive than similar products featured on this listCOA for 6,000-milligram potency not included in linked reports on the product page
Best High-Potency CBD Isolate Oil	Extract Labs Organic CBD Isolate Oil Daily Support
4.8
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $89.99 ($2.99 per 1-milliliter serving) Type: CBD isolatePotency: 200 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter serving in highest potency optionAvailable in one natural flavorFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Extract Labs' Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter. Potency: Very High Potency (196 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 196 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): Not detected Total cannabinoids: 196 milligrams Terpenes: Not present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItThis CBD isolate oil is formulated to be completely THC-free, making it an ideal choice for consumers who don’t want to ingest any cannabinoid except CBD. Plus, it’s available in two distinct potencies (3,000 milligrams and 6,000 milligrams), making it suitable for CBD newcomers and experienced users alike. It’s a flavorless, organic oil, containing no artificial colors, preservatives or fillers, according to the company.	Pros & ConsTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingSimple ingredient list includes organic fractionated coconut oil and hemp isolateManufactured with USDA-certified organic ingredientsNon GMO and vegan friendlyCompany offers a 60-day money-back guaranteeChoosing a subscription option at checkout saves customers 25%Doesn’t contain additional cannabinoids or terpenes, which could offer potential added benefitsSome consumers may prefer a flavored oilAvailable potencies may be too strong for some individuals
Best Low-Potency Full-Spectrum CBD Oil	R&R Multifunctional CBD Tinctures
4.7
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $55 ($1.83 per 1-milliliter serving) Type: Full spectrumPotency: 166.6 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter serving in highest potency optionAvailable in two flavors (fresh mint, unflavored)Free from detectable levels of pesticides, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter.Potency: Very Low Potency (32.3 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 32.3 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 0.86 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 34.8 milligrams Terpenes: Present below level of quantitation (LOQ) Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Present within safety limits adhered to in third-party laboratory testing (cadmium and lead)
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItWith a lighter potency compared to some products, this organic full-spectrum CBD oil tincture may be suitable for individuals looking to give the cannabinoid a try. It’s available in three potencies, 1,000 milligrams, 2,500 milligrams and 5,000 milligrams, satisfying a range of strength preferences. The company states this oil has a strong hemp flavor, so customers looking for a product without any hemp flavor may not enjoy this product. Reviews on the retailer website suggest this product is great for sleep, pain relief and more. It’s described as “excellent for the price.”	Pros & ConsContains USDA-certified organic hempTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingFormulated with additional cannabinoids, which may enhance the effects of CBD through the entourage effect, according to some researchCompany offers a 60-day money-back guaranteeFree shipping on orders over $60Customers who choose to bundle or subscribe at checkout save 20%Contains detectable levels of lead and cadmium, though both are within standard safety limitsDoesn’t contain detectable levels of terpenesNot suitable for individuals looking for a THC-free product
Best Whole-Flower CBD Oil	Cornbread Hemp Whole Flower USDA Organic CBD Oil
4.6
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $34.99 ($1.17 per 1-milliliter serving)Type: Full spectrumPotency: 50 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter serving in highest potency optionAvailable in one unflavored optionFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Cornbread Hemp's Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter.Potency: Very Low Potency (24 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 24 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 0.84 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 26.5 milligrams Terpenes: Present below level of quantitation (LOQ) Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected
Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItCornbread Hemp’s Whole Flower USDA Organic CBD Oil contains only two ingredients: organic MCT oil and organic hemp flower extract from hemp grown in Kentucky. What’s more, it’s crafted without added flavors, colors or preservatives. Third-party laboratory results for each batch of CBD oil are easily accessible on the product website. Customer reviews on the manufacturer page describe the product as “excellent,” with one reviewer saying that it “helps calm me down better than anything I have tried.” 	Pros & ConsTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingContains USDA-certified organic ingredientsGluten free, vegan friendly and non GMOSubscription option saves customers 20% and unlocks free shippingFree of artificial flavors and preservatives, according to the companyAvailable in several potenciesHighest potency available (1,500 milligrams) may not be satisfactory for experienced CBD usersLack of flavoring may not be appealing to all consumersProduct is formulated with coconut-derived MCT oil and may not be suitable for individuals with a coconut allergyFree shipping only available for orders over $75
Best CBD Oil With High Amounts of CBG	Carmen’s Medicinals CBD Oil – 1500MG
4.6
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $64.95 ($2.17 per 1-milliliter serving) Type: Full spectrum Potency: 50 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter serving in 1,500-milligram optionAvailable in one flavor (mint)Free from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter.Potency: Low Potency (48.9 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 48.9 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): Present below level of quantitation (LOQ) Total cannabinoids: 67 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItCarmen’s Medicinals full-spectrum CBD oil contains a simple ingredient list, including full-spectrum hemp oil, peppermint oil and medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) oil from coconut. The 1,500-milligram version offers a moderate potency, and two additional potencies are available as well (3,000 milligrams and 6,000 milligrams). While it’s rich in cannabinoids, this oil is lacking measurable amounts of THC, according to third-party laboratory testing facilitated by Forbes Health. Some consumers purchasing a full-spectrum oil may prefer or expect THC to be present for various reasons. User reviews on the manufacturer website say Carmen’s Medicinals CBD Oil is a “high-quality product that delivers real results.” Aspects like its subtle taste and potential for stress relief are what make this product popular, according to posted reviews. 	Pros & ConsContains additional cannabinoids, including cannabichromene (CBC), cannabigerol (CBG) and cannabinol (CBN), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectTerpene content may enhance therapeutic effectsTested CBD potency within 5 milligrams of product labelManufactured with USDA-certified organic hempNon GMO and vegan friendlyCompany features detailed dosing suggestions on product pageDoesn’t contain measurable levels of THC, which full-spectrum consumers may expect to be presentUnclear whether peppermint oil is organic based on product page and imagesA clear ingredient list isn’t available on the product page, only via product images, which may be difficult for some customers to read
Best CBD Oil Dosing Guide	Vena Full Spectrum CBD Tincture
4.6
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $39.95 ($1.33 per 1-milliliter serving) Type: Full spectrumPotency: 50 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter serving in 1,500-milligram optionAvailable in one flavor (citrus)Free from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Vena CBD's Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter. Potency: Low Potency (51.1 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD):51.1 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 1.74 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 61.1 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItThis affordable, mid-range potency oil is rich in cannabinoids and terpenes, which may enhance its therapeutic effects. Because it’s full spectrum, it also contains small amounts of THC, which the company clearly highlights on the product page and warns may appear on a drug test. Unlike many oils on our list, however, this product lacks USDA organic certification, which may be a drawback for some CBD consumers. The ingredient list is also somewhat vague, listing “natural flavors” without further specifics. Reviews published on the manufacturer website suggest the Venna Full Spectrum CBD tincture is excellent for sleep and relaxation, with one customer saying the product has provided “more sleep than I have gotten in years.” 	Pros & ConsContains additional cannabinoids, including cannabichromene (CBC) and cannabigerol (CBG) and cannabinol (CBN), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingNon GMOCompany offers a 30-day money-back guaranteeCompany website features a comprehensive dosing guide, including information about microdosingTincture includes clear measurement markings for easy dosageSingle flavor option may not appeal to all customersNot suitable for consumers looking for a THC-free productOnly available in two potencies (1,500 milligrams and 3,000 milligrams)
Best CBD Oil for Subscription Savings	Bluebird Botanicals THC Free CBD Oil CBD Isolate
4.5
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $49.95 ($0.83 per 0.5-milliliter serving) Type: CBD isolatePotency: 25 milligrams per 0.5-milliliter servingAvailable in one natural flavorFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter. Potency: Very Low Potency (26.1 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per manufacturer-recommended 0.5-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 26.1 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): Not detected Total cannabinoids: 26.1 Terpenes: Not present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItThis straightforward CBD isolate oil may be the perfect choice for a customer who knows they only want to ingest CBD. The low potency option may be ideal for CBD newcomers and experienced users alike, and the company claims this isolate is as effective as other types of CBD. This product is lacking the USDA-certified organic seal, which may deter some consumers. On the other hand, with just two ingredients, organic fractionated coconut oil and CBD isolate from hemp oil, the oil offers a minimal ingredient list for individuals looking for a simple product. Plus, subscribing can save consumers up to 55% off the original cost, lowering the price to $22.48 per bottle. User reviews on the manufacturer website praise this CBD isolate as a calming product offered at a good price. It’s described as an “excellent product” and “really good stuff.” 	Pros & ConsTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingContains no artificial flavors or sweetenersSubscription option saves customers 55% off the original priceSuitable for consumers looking for a THC-free product, according to third-party laboratory testing facilitated by Forbes HealthProduct page features COA highlights for customers to consider without needing to view the full documentsProduct label features clear dosing instructionsSingle potency availableNot all ingredients are organic, according to the product labelDoesn’t include terpenes to enhance therapeutic effects
Methodology: How We Picked the Best CBD Oils and Tinctures in 2025
To choose the best CBD oils and tinctures, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over approximately 100 CBD oil products that are:
Made from plants grown in the U.S.
Have a COA confirming the absence of pesticides, heavy metals and molds
Are third-party tested by ISO 17025-compliant laboratories
We then ranked CBD oils and tinctures based on price, potency, flavor options and more, including:
Price per serving (lowest potency available) (30%)
CBD per serving (lowest potency available) (30%)
Whether the product is organic (10%)
Whether the product contains all-natural ingredients (10%)
Whether the product is gluten-free (5%)
Whether the product is vegan-friendly (5%)
Whether the product is non-GMO (5%)
Number of flavor options available (5%)
We evaluated 30-milliliter bottles when possible to keep all data comparable and considered a standard serving size to be 1 milliliter of CBD oil unless otherwise specified by a product’s label.
Read more about our CBD review methodology.
Third-Party Laboratory Testing Methodology: How We Tested CBD Oils
Nova Analytic Labs
Forbes Health facilitated independent, third-party laboratory testing for the top CBD oils in our rankings through Nova Analytic Labs in Portland, Maine. The laboratory was selected to evaluate CBD oil potency and quality due to its strict standards and commitment to consumer safety.
Lab technicians used between 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter of oil to evaluate the following elements of each top-ranking CBD oil:
CBD potency
THC potency
Minor cannabinoid types potencies
Presence or absence and types of terpenes
Pesticide, mycotoxin, microbial and heavy metal detection
Nova Analytic Labs generated COAs for each top-ranking CBD oil based on these testing results, detailing specific cannabinoid and terpene potencies, as well as any indication of potentially harmful contaminants. Samples with non-detectable, or lower than measurable, levels of mycotoxins, microbes and heavy metals received a “pass.” The Forbes Health editorial team carefully examined each laboratory-provided COA, comparing them to the COAs originally published by each CBD brand and evaluating factors that would lead to potential disqualification, including:
THC levels surpassing the federally allowed amount of 0.3% by dry weight
Any presence of pesticides, mycotoxins, microbes or heavy metals above the safety threshold adhered to by the third-party laboratory based on state guidelines
What Is CBD Oil?
Cannabidiol (CBD) oil is a supplement derived from the cannabis sativa plant. Once CBD is extracted from the plant, it’s mixed with a carrier oil—often olive, coconut or medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) oil—to create CBD oil, which is then consumed orally.
How Do CBD Oils and Tinctures Work?
CBD works through the endocannabinoid system (ECS), a cell-signaling system. The ECS is made up of cannabinoids produced by the body naturally, receptors that respond to those cannabinoids and enzymes that help break them down and put them to use. When you consume CBD through a CBD oil or CBD tincture, your body responds the same way it does to its natural cannabinoids.
“Endocannabinoids are chemical messengers that play a variety of roles in the body,” explains Daniele Piomelli, Ph.D., the director of the Institute for the Study of Cannabis at the University of California, Irvine and an anatomy and neurobiology professor at the university’s medical school. “They work by binding to receptors present on the surface of neurons and many other cells. When bound to endocannabinoids, these receptors regulate appetite, pain, memory, the response to stress and the ability to store fat (among other things).”
Research suggests the ECS plays a role in several physiological processes, including appetite, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, fertility, immune function, memory, neuroprotection and pain modulation. People who consume CBD oil products often report relief for a variety of ailments, from anxiety to chronic pain.
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services. Enjoy 25% Off Your Order 	Using Code FORBES25	Aspen Green Rest Organic Full Spectrum CBD OilFull Spectrum CBD & THC Oil infused with wellness-boosting botanicals that helps promote quality restPhysician Formulated and USDA Certified OrganicVegan, Gluten Free, & Non-GMOFree from toxins, formaldehydes, phthalates, parabens, and sulfates	Shop Now	On Aspen Green's Website
How to Choose the Best CBD Oil for You
Because CBD oils and tinctures are considered dietary supplements and aren’t regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), consumers need to do their own research to ensure the quality of the product they choose to try. Here are a few criteria to consider when shopping for CBD oil:
U.S. sourcing. “Knowing the source of the hemp used in making a CBD product is important because it gives you insight into [a variety of components],” says Vanessa Niles, M.D., founder of Synergy Health Medical Marijuana Evaluation Clinic. Source information can indicate whether the hemp is sustainably farmed, organic, contains pesticides, heavy metals or other fertilizer chemicals, as well as if it’s been tested by a third-party laboratory. The FDA doesn’t regulate CBD oil products specifically, but it does regulate the cannabis sativa plants grown on U.S. soil, requiring that they contain no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight. (THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, is the most well-known psychoactive compound found in the cannabis sativa plant, and some states have yet to legalize it due to its mind-altering effects.) Buying CBD oil sourced from hemp grown in the U.S. ensures the product you’re using meets these legal requirements.
Third-party testing. By sending samples of a product to an independent and accredited laboratory for testing, a company can ensure safety and security standards are being met, which is important for supplements like CBD oil.
Certificate of Analysis (COA) availability. This document is supplied by the third-party laboratory to confirm whether the CBD product meets the specifications advertised on its label. It also acknowledges any presence of pesticides, heavy metals or molds, which can be harmful to human health. Look for a CBD brand that transparently provides COAs for its products on its website.
Experts recommend exclusively shopping for CBD products from companies that have their products tested by third-party laboratories and provide recent COAs on their website or in the product packaging to ensure you’re consuming what the label suggests. Even with these two boxes checked, you can’t be too careful. A small 2023 study conducted by supplement company NextEvo Naturals and performed by Coral Reef Labs found large inconsistencies between COAs and product labels for 50% of 16 randomly selected CBD products purchased from large chain retailers in Pennsylvania locations and online. Most CBD gummy products tested didn’t contain as much CBD as their labels suggested while the CBD oil and capsule products exceeded the CBD amounts listed on their labels.[1]Rapin L, Gamaoun R, El Hage C, Fernanda M, Prosk E. Cannabidiol use and effectiveness: real-world evidence from a Canadian medical cannabis clinic. Journal of Cannabis Research. 2012;3(1):19.
What to Look for in CBD Oil Companies
First and foremost, reputable CBD oil companies submit their products to third-party laboratories for testing and make the resulting certificates of analysis (COAs) easily available to consumers. In terms of quality, look for companies that use organic, non-GMO, U.S.-grown hemp to manufacture their oils.
A Google search of a company or product may also bring up helpful reviews from third-party websites like TrustPilot, and you can always take a look at the company’s Better Business Bureau (BBB) profile for more information. If you’re unsure about a CBD oil company’s trustworthiness or reputation, speak with a cannabis provider for company and product recommendations.
What Are the Three Different Types of CBD Oil?
Hemp-derived CBD oil products can contain detectable amounts (no more than 0.3% by dry weight) of THC, the compound in cannabis plants known for causing intoxicatingly psychoactive effects.
However, consuming CBD won’t get you “high.” Instead, CBD interacts with receptors in your body’s endocannabinoid system (ECS), which includes the brain and spinal cord, potentially calming the central nervous system, alleviating anxiety, improving sleep quality and/or reducing inflammation and chronic pain symptoms.
Understanding the differences between the three types of CBD—full-spectrum CBD, broad-spectrum CBD and CBD isolate—can help you choose the best type for your specific needs and preferences.
Full Spectrum CBD
Full-spectrum CBD refers to a hemp extract that contains CBD and other compounds naturally present in the hemp plant, such as terpenes (compounds responsible for the way a plant smells) and minor amounts of THC, says Jeff Chen, M.D. co-founder and CEO of Radicle Science, a wellness clinical research organization in San Diego, and founder and former executive director of the UCLA Cannabis Research Initiative, one of the first multidisciplinary academic programs dedicated to the study of cannabis and cannabinoids.
CBD, terpenes, flavonoids, essential oils and other cannabinoids contained in full-spectrum CBD products can work synergistically to create what’s known as the “entourage effect,” which some research indicates may increase therapeutic benefits of CBD compared to when it’s used alone.
Broad Spectrum CBD
Broad-spectrum CBD is a hemp extract similar to full-spectrum CBD, with the exception that it typically undergoes an additional extraction process to remove all THC while leaving the remaining compounds naturally present in the hemp plant intact. With that said, testing reveals that some broad-spectrum CBD products retain minimal traces of THC, so it’s safest to refer to them as “nearly THC-free.”
CBD Isolate
As the name suggests, CBD isolate, or pure CBD, doesn’t contain any THC or other compounds from the hemp plant, says Dr. Chen. Unlike full-spectrum CBD and broad-spectrum CBD, CBD isolate cannot create the entourage effect because the extraction method isolates CBD from all other terpenes, cannabinoids and plant compounds naturally occurring in hemp.
Health Benefits of CBD Oil
Research suggests taking CBD oil may have promising health benefits, including managing anxiety and depression symptoms, decreasing pain levels, supporting sleep and enhancing overall well-being. One 2021 study examining real-world data from a cannabis clinic in Canada found CBD to be most effective among a patient population with moderate to severe symptoms.[2]CBD Study: Most Brands 50% Off Label Claims. NextEvo Naturals. Accessed 5/14/2025.
A CBD pharmaceutical called Epidiolex is approved by the FDA to treat certain severe seizure disorders as well.
Side Effects of CBD Oil
While consuming CBD oil has potential benefits, a few side effects may cause discomfort for CBD users.
“CBD is generally considered safe, but possible side effects include somnolence (drowsiness), fatigue, and diarrhea,” says Dr. Piomelli. “The most serious concern is the [potential] interaction with life-saving medications, the effectiveness of which could be altered by high doses of CBD.”
Other side effects can include nausea, irritability, agitation, liver injury and a negative impact on male reproductive health.
If you’re taking any prescription drugs, supplements or over-the-counter medications, consult with your health care provider before taking CBD oil to avoid the risk of potential drug interactions. The FDA also cautions against using CBD oil while pregnant or breastfeeding.
Experience the transformative benefits of Relief Organic CBD Oil Full Spectrum
This premium blend harnesses the full spectrum of organic CBD, derived from sustainably sourced hemp, ensuring purity and potency. Ideal for promoting relaxation, alleviating stress, and restoring balance, it's trusted by users for its therapeutic efficacy and quality.
Shop Now
On Aspen Green's Website
How Do You Take CBD Oil?
Experts advise newcomers to start with a low dose of CBD oil, such as 25 milligrams a day, and gradually increase their dose to a level that provides the desired effects. It’s best to navigate this process under the guidance of a qualified health care provider, as reactions to CBD can vary per person.
For CBD oil to take effect, it must first be digested in a process called first-pass digestion. Preliminary research suggests consuming CBD oil with high-fat foods may increase CBD’s bioavailability, but further human trials are needed. CBD tinctures are taken under the tongue and are absorbed by the mucous membranes, which may mean they take effect more quickly, though more scientific evidence is necessary to support this theory.
How to Read CBD Labels
CBD products are not currently regulated by the FDA as dietary supplements, so it’s difficult to determine a product’s safety and efficacy. However, knowing how to read a label can help ensure consumers understand the ingredients and potential benefits or risks of using a certain CBD product.
Statement of identity: This information indicates a product’s intended use. When shopping for CBD products, check the label to ensure you’re buying the specific form you’re looking for, such as cream, edible or tincture.
Composition: The content of a CBD product should indicate amounts of CBD per serving and CBD type (broad spectrum, full spectrum or isolate).
Health-related claims: These claims may also indicate to a consumer the intended use of a CBD product and its possible effects. Consider whether a CBD product claims to offer specific benefits, such as promoting sleep, pain relief or reducing anxiety.
Nutritional content: This information may be useful for individuals with health or dietary concerns, as some CBD labels may display certain nutritional claims. For example, some product labels may indicate that a product is low-calorie or gluten-free. This information should also include additional ingredients such as carrier oils and natural or artificial flavorings.
Third-party testing: All CBD products should be third-party laboratory tested to verify that the product contains no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight. If a product has been third-party tested, it should come with a certificate of analysis (COA) that confirms the amount of CBD the product contains and discloses whether the product contains additional cannabinoids, such as THC, as well as levels of contaminants like heavy metals, pesticides or biological impurities.
Choosing the Best CBD Oil Strength
There’s no standard dose or potency when it comes to taking CBD oil. Effects vary from person to person and depend on the type of CBD used, as well as other factors, such as height, weight and metabolic function. Furthermore, the effective dose of CBD oil may change based on the intended use—for example, whether it’s being used to support sleep, improve pain levels or reduce anxiety. More research is needed to determine standard effective doses and potencies of CBD oil.
“CBD oil is used—without much supportive evidence—for the self-medication of various conditions, including pain and anxiety,” says Dr. Piomelli. “If someone decides to try it, I would recommend to start with a low daily dose (50 milligrams maximum) and make sure to monitor themselves for side effects like somnolence (drowsiness), fatigue and diarrhea. I wouldn’t exceed a daily dose of 250 milligrams, nor would I take it for more than two to three weeks.”
How Much CBD Oil Should I Take?
The amount of CBD oil an individual should take varies based on the potency of the oil, the type of CBD it uses and desired effects. What’s more, CBD oil effects and absorption rates depend on additional factors, such as a person’s body weight, height and individual metabolism.
Experts generally recommend starting with a low dose and potency and building from there to find the ideal CBD oil dose for you.
How Long Does CBD Oil Take to Work?
Some research suggests holding CBD oil underneath the tongue may lead to absorption through the bloodstream, meaning the effects may be felt sooner than other delivery methods, but additional studies are needed to support these claims.
Meanwhile, CBD oil that is swallowed may take as long as 30 minutes to four hours to take effect, according to Dr. Piomelli. Additionally, research indicates that CBD bioavailability increases when consumed with a high-fat or high-calorie meal rather than consuming CBD alone or on an empty stomach.
“A full stomach speeds up absorption, but it could still take hours for CBD to be fully absorbed,” adds Dr. Piomelli.
Summary: Compare the Best CBD Oil in 2025
Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
5.0
Shop NowOn CBD.co's Website
Best Value CBD Oil
Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
5.0
Shop NowOn Redeem Therapeutics's Website
Best CBD Oil With Spray Applicator
Redeem Therapeutics Full Spectrum CBD Oil 750 mg
4.9
Shop NowOn Redeem Therapeutics's Website
Best CBD Oil for Customizable Dosing
Extract Labs Organic CBD Oil Daily Support
4.8
Shop NowOn Extract Labs' Website
Best High-Potency Full-Spectrum CBD Oil
Extract Labs Organic CBD Isolate Oil Daily Support
4.8
Shop NowOn Extract Labs' Website
Best High-Potency CBD Isolate Oil
R&R Multifunctional CBD Tinctures
4.7
View More
Best Low-Potency Full-Spectrum CBD Oil
Cornbread Hemp Whole Flower USDA Organic CBD Oil
4.6
Shop NowOn Cornbread Hemp's Website
Best Whole-Flower CBD Oil
Carmen’s Medicinals CBD Oil - 1500MG
4.6
View More
Best CBD Oil With High Amounts of CBG
Vena Full Spectrum CBD Tincture
4.6
Shop NowOn Vena CBD's Website
Best CBD Oil Dosing Guide
Bluebird Botanicals THC Free CBD Oil CBD Isolate
4.5
View More
Best CBD Oil for Subscription Savings
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATING
BEST FOR
LEARN MORE
Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
5.0
Best Value CBD Oil
Shop NowOn CBD.co's Website
Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
5.0
Best CBD Oil With Spray Applicator
Shop NowOn Redeem Therapeutics's Website
Redeem Therapeutics Full Spectrum CBD Oil 750 mg
4.9
Best CBD Oil for Customizable Dosing
Shop NowOn Redeem Therapeutics's Website
Extract Labs Organic CBD Oil Daily Support
4.8
Best High-Potency Full-Spectrum CBD Oil
Shop NowOn Extract Labs' Website
Extract Labs Organic CBD Isolate Oil Daily Support
4.8
Best High-Potency CBD Isolate Oil
Shop NowOn Extract Labs' Website
R&R Multifunctional CBD Tinctures
4.7
Best Low-Potency Full-Spectrum CBD Oil
View More
Cornbread Hemp Whole Flower USDA Organic CBD Oil
4.6
Best Whole-Flower CBD Oil
Shop NowOn Cornbread Hemp's Website
Carmen’s Medicinals CBD Oil - 1500MG
4.6
Best CBD Oil With High Amounts of CBG
View More
Vena Full Spectrum CBD Tincture
4.6
Best CBD Oil Dosing Guide
Shop NowOn Vena CBD's Website
Bluebird Botanicals THC Free CBD Oil CBD Isolate
4.5
Best CBD Oil for Subscription Savings
View More
See More See Less
Forbes Health covers CBD and cannabis products in accordance with FTC guidelines. Learn more about Forbes Health’s practices and policies regarding how we cover CBD and cannabis as a publisher.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Where can I buy CBD oil?
CBD oil is widely available in specialty retail stores and online, depending on where you live. Purchasing CBD oil online may come with certain benefits, such as the ability to request a digital COA for a specific product and read online reviews. Our Best CBD Oil of 2025 list exclusively includes products that have been third-party tested for quality and potency and may be a great place to start your search for the perfect CBD oil.
Who should use CBD oil?
A growing body of research suggests CBD oil may benefit people with:
Anxiety
Depression
PTSD
Epilepsy syndromes
Opioid addiction
Neurodegenerative disorders and diseases
Unmanageable chronic pain
Diabetic complications
Arthritis
Talk to your health care provider to learn more about whether CBD oil could be beneficial for you.
Is CBD oil safe?
The FDA reports it’s only seen limited data regarding the safety of CBD. Anyone interested in consuming CBD in any form should first consult with their health care provider and be aware of potential risks associated with using CBD products, including liver injury, drug interactions and male reproductive toxicity.
Is CBD oil legal?
As of 2021, CBD that comes from hemp (a type of cannabis sativa plant) that produces no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight is considered legal at the federal level. State laws vary, so it’s best to confirm any rules and regulations that apply to your area with your local and state legislation.
How much THC is in CBD Oil?
The amount of THC in CBD oil varies depending on the type of CBD used: CBD isolate, broad-spectrum CBD or full-spectrum CBD. Of the three, full-spectrum CBD oil is likely to contain the highest amount of THC, but its contents should remain under the federal limit of .3% by dry weight. CBD isolate contains strictly CBD while broad-spectrum CBD contains additional cannabinoids found in the hemp plant but not THC.
Can CBD oil impact the results of a drug test?
Standard drug tests don’t screen for CBD because it’s not an intoxicating substance, nor is it an illegal controlled substance. However, some CBD products contain trace amounts of THC, which can affect the results of a drug test.
Can CBD oil be applied topically to help with pain?
While research is limited regarding the effects of CBD topicals on pain, some small studies indicate that topical CBD creams, lotions and balms may reduce pain for individuals with arthritis and nerve damage. Additionally, CBD topicals may improve skin conditions including acne, rosacea and eczema, though further studies are needed to confirm these effects.
Sources
Footnotes
Rapin L, Gamaoun R, El Hage C, Fernanda M, Prosk E.
Cannabidiol use and effectiveness: real-world evidence from a Canadian medical cannabis clinic. Journal of Cannabis Research. 2012;3(1):19.
CBD Study: Most Brands 50% Off Label Claims. NextEvo Naturals. Accessed 5/14/2025.
References
VanDolah HJ, Bauer BA, Mauck KF.
Clinicians’ Guide to Cannabidiol and Hemp Oils.
Mayo Clin Proc. 2019;94(9):1840-1851.
Lu H-C, Mackie K.
An introduction to the endogenous cannabinoid system.
Biol Psychiatry. 2016;79(7):516–525.
Cather JC, Cather JC.
Cannabidiol primer for healthcare professionals.
Proc (Bayl Univ Med Cent). 2020;33(3):376–379.
FDA and Cannabis: Research and Drug Approval Process.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accessed 5/15/2025.
FDA Regulation of Cannabis and Cannabis-Derived Products, Including Cannabidiol (CBD).
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accessed 5/14/2025.
What is third party certification?.
National Science Foundation. Accessed 5/14/2025.
How to read a COA and why it’s so important.
ACS Laboratory. Accessed 5/14/2025.
What You Need to Know (And What We’re Working to Find Out) About Products Containing Cannabis or Cannabis-derived Compounds, Including CBD.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accessed 5/14/2025.
Can You Take CBD and Pass a Drug Test?.
Consumer Reports. Accessed 5/14/2025.
Battista N, Di Tommaso M, Bari M, Maccarrone M.
The endocannabinoid system: an overview.
Front Behav Neurosci. 2012;6:9.
CBD for Arthritis Pain: What You Should Know.
Arthritis Foundation. Accessed 5/14/2025.
Edible Cannabis Affects People Differently ‘start low - go slow’.
Canadian Centre on Substance Use and Addiction. Accessed 5/14/2025.
Corroon J, MacKay D, Dolphin W.
Labeling of Cannabidiol Products: A Public Health Perspective.
Cannabis Cannabinoid Res. 2020;5(4):274-278.
Certificate of Analysis.
cbdMD. Accessed 5/14/2025.
Millar SA, Maguire RF, Yates AS, O'Sullivan SE.
Towards Better Delivery of Cannabidiol (CBD).
Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2020;13(9):219.
Heineman JT, Forster GL, Stephens KL, Cottler PS, Timko MP, DeGeorge BR Jr.
A Randomized Controlled Trial of Topical Cannabidiol for the Treatment of Thumb Basal Joint Arthritis.
J Hand Surg Am. 2022;47(7):611-620.
Xu DH, Cullen BD, Tang M, Fang Y.
The Effectiveness of Topical Cannabidiol Oil in Symptomatic Relief of Peripheral Neuropathy of the Lower Extremities.
Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2020;21(5):390-402.
Makhakhe L.
Topical cannabidiol (CBD) in skin pathology - A comprehensive review and prospects for new therapeutic opportunities.
S Afr Fam Pract (2004). 2022;64(1):e1-e4.
Cannabidiol (CBD) – Potential Harms, Side Effects, and Unknowns.
SAMHSA Advisory. Accessed 5/14/2025.
Next Up In CBD
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD Creams
Best CBD Products For Sleep
Best CBD Products For Anxiety & Stress
Best CBD Products For Pain Management
Aspen Green CBD Review
Cornbread Hemp CBD Review
Lazarus Naturals CBD Review
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for Forbes Health, Meaghan loves practicing yoga, reading and spending time with her family near the ocean in her home state of Maine.
Bindiya Gandhi, M.D.
Integrative Medicine / Functional Medicine
Dr. Bindiya Gandhi is a double board-certified integrative and family medicine physician with expertise in functional and holistic medicine. She is the medical director at Revive Atlanta MD, a comprehensive clinic focused on total body healing, including decreasing inflammation, improving hormonal imbalance, helping women get pregnant, weight loss resistance, chronic stress, gut health and more. She has been featured on The Daily Mail, Fox5 Atlanta, CBS46, 11Alive, wsbtv, Popsugar, mindbodygreen, The Washington Post, well+good, Vogue, Parade, Livestrong, HuffPost and more.
Find The Best CBD Products
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD for Anxiety
Best CBD for Pain
Best CBD for Sleep
Best CBD Creams
CBD Benefits
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise