How Tesla's metamorphosis may see its stock surge to $3,000 in just 10 years | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
How Tesla's metamorphosis may see its stock surge to $3,000 in just 10 years
How Tesla's metamorphosis may see its stock surge to $3,000 in just 10 years
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 19, 2025, 11:38:00 AM
By Jamie Chisholm
Robots and robotaxis will turn Musk's carmaker into a 'physical AI' company, says Baird
Tesla bulls are partly pinning their hopes on people wanting a Musk robot.
Now even small caps have joined the party. The Russell 2000 index RUT just closed at its first record high since November 2021, joining the S&P 500 SPX, Dow DJIA and Nasdaq COMP at new peaks.
It is a sign that the market rally is broadening. That will be welcomed by investors. But that's not to say some analysts are no longer excited about the big tech stocks that have done much of the market's heavy lifting of late.
One such is Tesla (TSLA), whose shares have surged 22.6% in just the past month. And now Ben Kallo, senior research analyst at Baird, is upgrading the stock to outperform and raising his price target from $320 to $548.
In a note published Friday, Kallo makes clear this is not about Tesla as a carmaker, where business has been increasingly dour. "Relatively muted stock reactions following a series of less-than-stellar quarters and investor inbounds regarding long-term initiatives lead us to believe focus has increasingly shifted to the future for TSLA," he says.
Indeed. This argument from Tesla bulls that investors should all but dismiss the falling electric vehicle sales, and focus on the company's robot and driverless taxi prospects has been ingrained for some while.
But Kallo takes the metamorphosis tale to another level, as he models how the lofty product, market capitalization and earnings targets of Elon Musk's proposed trillion-dollar pay package may see the share price surge as Tesla " is increasingly viewed as the leader in physical AI."
To do this Kallo extrapolates Baird's own assumptions about Tesla's future and, crucially, is prepared to use Musk's own previous optimistic commentary on prospects for the company's Optimus robots and robotaxis.
"Our exercise and model assume a time period of ten years 2026-2035 with each product goal being achieved at the end of the period and straight line volume growth," Kallo says.
Musk's proposed package does still require many more cars to be sold, a cumulative 20 million, in fact. "We estimate that TSLA will have delivered a cumulative nearly 8.7 million vehicles through the end of 2025. With that as a baseline and a goal of 20 million vehicles delivered, a potentially surprising implication is a negative y/y [year over year] growth rate in deliveries through 2035 (-5% annually)," Kallo writes.
Tesla must also reach 10 million active full self-driving subscriptions, which can be achieved by 2035, reckons Baird, if the 20 million of vehicle sales have 50% of buyers choosing the software.
Then there is the target of one million "bots," not specifically Optimus robots as some initially thought. It's a more general term that leads Baird to believe Tesla will have additional real-world AI products in the future. However, they add: "For the sake of our exercise, we assume only Optimus and infer economics based on Musk's comments regarding a $20K per unit cost and an assumed 50% gross margin."
Finally, Musk's package requires Tesla to have one million robotaxis operating commercially, Kallo notes. This could be achieved by Tesla's "ability to draw on customer-owned vehicles to expand its fleet and rapidly scale the rollout."
Putting all of this together, Baird reckons that if Tesla reaches these milestones in 2035 with volumes equal to the minimums outlined in the pay package then there's a "pathway for Tesla's market cap to exceed $5.5 trillion. That would be based on an Ebitda multiple of 65 leading to a share price of $1,412 after taking into account the dilution from Musk's additional stock. (Ebitda stands for earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization).
But Kallo has what he calls a "bull volume case," where Tesla achieves in 2035 approximately double the pay package volume milestones, and then the company can reach a $12 trillion market cap, based on an Ebitda multiple of 65, leading to a share price of $3,043 after the dilution from Musk's additional shares.
To be clear, Kallo emphasizes that doubling the already lofty targets in his bull case "is nowhere near our base case estimates." Still, he adds: "We outline this scenario to show that IF these milestones are achieved, the volumes and financial profile will almost certainly fall between these two cases."
The markets
U.S. stock-index futures (ES00) (YM00) (NQ00) are little changed as benchmark Treasury yields BX:TMUBMUSD10Y rise. The dollar index DXY is up, while oil prices (CL.1) dip and gold futures (GC00) are trading around $3,686 an ounce.
Key asset performance
Last
5d
1m
YTD
1y
S&P 500
6631.96
0.68%
4.11%
12.76%
16.07%
Nasdaq Composite
22,470.73
1.94%
6.49%
16.36%
24.74%
10-year Treasury
4.125
5.50
-13.90
-45.10
38.10
Gold
3690.8
0.27%
8.01%
39.84%
39.43%
Oil
62.64
0.06%
-1.77%
-12.84%
-12.08%
Data: MarketWatch. Treasury yields change expressed in basis points
Need to Know starts early and is updated until the opening bell, but sign up here to get it delivered once to your email box. The emailed version will be sent out at about 7:30 a.m. Eastern.
The buzz
The Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to let it remove Federal Reserve Gov. Lisa Cook from the central bank's board while a lawsuit challenging the president's effort to fire her proceeds.
San Francisco Fed President Mary Daly is due to speak at 2:30 p.m. Eastern.
The Nikkei 225 JP:NIK reversed course having hit a record after the Bank of Japan held rates, but in a split decision, and said it would start selling its $250 billion stash of exchange-traded funds.
FedEx shares (FDX) are higher after releasing earnings and giving a 2026 fiscal outlook, a move that suggested trade uncertainty is easing.
Lennar shares (LEN) are lower after the home builder missed revenue estimates.
Best of the web
How chatbots are changing the internet.
How an Enron parody turned into a financial mess of its own.
Trump's team explores government-backed manufacturing boost.
The chart
Source: Vanda Research
If retail investors are an important prop for the stock market then equities may struggle in the next few months. The chart from Marco Iachini at Vanda Research shows the average retail net buying of U.S. stocks for 2021-2024 and net purchases so far this year.
At the moment "retail is again pushing against historical patterns, encouraged by a 'good-is-bad' narrative where Fed cuts are perceived as pre-emptive medicine against recession. A Q3 earnings season bump could further support activity before the year-end holiday lull," says Iachini. But, he also says: "Looking forward, we still expect Q4's seasonal slowdown to weigh on activity."
Top tickers
Here were the most active stock-market tickers on MarketWatch as of 6 a.m. Eastern.
Ticker
Security name
TSLA
Tesla
NVDA
Nvidia
INTC
Intel
GME
GameStop
NIO
NIO
OPEN
Opendoor Technologies
PLTR
Palantir Technologies
AMD
Advanced Micro Devices
AAPL
Apple
TSM
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Random reads
Drunk monkeys.
Ig Noble prize winners paint cows and study fingernail growth.
Inside the century-old building standing above 400,000 gold bars.
For more market updates plus actionable trade ideas for stocks, options and crypto, subscribe to MarketDiem by Investor's Business Daily.
-Jamie Chisholm
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-19-25 0738ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility