The 20 Financial Firms That Apply for the Most H-1B Visas - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Finance
The 20 financial firms that could be hardest hit from Trump's new H-1B fee — from Goldman Sachs to Citi
By
Alex Nicoll
President Trump with his signed H-1B visa order
Reuters
2025-09-24T09:00:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Donald Trump has raised the cost of new H-1B applications to $100,000.
Banks and other financial firms rely on the program to fill a range of roles, including tech.
Business Insider crunched the data to see which financial firms could be most impacted by the new rules.
Silicon Valley isn't the only industry reeling from President Donald Trump's plans to charge companies hiring skilled foreign workers $100,000 for visas.Wall Street banks and other financial firms have long used the H-1B visa program to fill an array of roles, from computer programmers to traders and even investment bankers.Trump's executive order, signed late Friday, "caught everyone off guard," JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said on CNBC while in Mumbai, India, this week.
In order to visualize the potential impact on the financial industry, Business Insider turned to publicly available data from the Department of Labor and the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The data covers H-1B application data for the first three quarters of the government fiscal year 2025, as well as the less-common H-1B1 and E-3 visas, from October of 2024 to the end of June this year.We studied certified visa applications during this time period to highlight the biggest financial industry users of the visa program. The data does not reflect the total number of H-1B employees at any given firm, but it provides helpful context on immigrant labor demands.The data shows that some of the largest financial employers heavily rely on this visa to fill a range of roles, especially technology roles. Major banks like Chase and Goldman Sachs dominate the list alongside major payments companies like American Express. Asset managers like BlackRock and Vanguard, and research and ratings agency Moody's, help to round it out.
Wells Fargo, Bank of America, and Citigroup declined to comment. The others did not respond to a request for comment from BI.
1. JPMorgan Chase
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon.
Noam Galai via Getty Images
Certified applications: 2,440Employees worldwide: 317,160 as of the second quarter of 2025The country's largest bank focused its H-1B hiring heavily on technologists, with more than 500 certified applications for vice president, lead software engineer, and associate software engineer III positions. The bank also filed visa applications for the firm's main business lines, such as an investment banking managing director.
2. Fidelity
Fidelity investments
SOPA Images/Contributor/ Getty Images
Certified applications: 1,575Employees worldwide: Over 78,000 per its websiteFidelity submitted a wide range of applications for technical roles, with 40 certified applications for full-stack engineering directors and 125 for full-stack engineering principals. Non-technical roles included a director of marketing.
3. Goldman Sachs
Goldman Sachs logo against backdrop of stocks on screens.
Ramin Talaie/Corbis via Getty Images
Certified applications: 1,280Employees worldwide: 45,900 as of the second quarter of 2025Not all of Goldman Sachs' certified applications specified the role, focusing instead on the level of hire, such as an associate. The data, however, does show a wide range of technologist hires and financial hires, including many vice president-level banking roles.
4. American Express
Credit cards fill a display at American Express headquarters
John Moore/Getty Images
Certified applications: 921Employees worldwide: 75,100 as of the end of 2024American Express's certified applications were largely for technologist roles, with more than 125 for"engineer" roles. Business Insider also found applications for non-technical roles, including director-level applications for risk management, communications, and controller.
5. Citigroup
Jane Fraser, CEO of Citigroup.
Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call
Certified applications: 874Employees worldwide: 229,000 as of the end of 2024Citi's certified applications also largely focused on technology roles, including more than 150 certified applications for "Application Development Technical Lead Analyst" roles.
6. Capital One
The Capital One Financial Corp. logo displayed on a smartphone.
SOPA Images / Getty Images
Certified applications: 871Employees worldwide: 76,500 as of the second quarter of 2025Like others on this list, Capital One's certified applications largely focused on technology and data roles. The data showed hundreds of applications for data science and analysis roles, as well as some less technical roles like "business manager."
7. Visa
VISA's 2008 IPO at the New York Stock Exchange.
Timothy A. Clary/AFP/Getty Images
Certified applications: 770Employees worldwide: 31,600 as of the end of 2024Visa is yet another company largely focused on tech and data hires. Some non-technical roles include compensation business analysts, senior financial analysts, and managers.
8. Bank of America
Brian Moynihan, Chief Executive Officer of Bank of America.
Kristoffer Tripplaar for The Washington Post via Getty Images
Certified applications: 718Employees worldwide: 213,000 as of the second quarter of 2025Bank of America also focused its applications on tech hiring. Their most common role on the list, a vice president-level software engineer III, could be found on over 100 applications.
9. Morgan Stanley
Morgan Stanley chairman James Gorman
Brendan McDermid/Reuters
Certified applications: 673Employees worldwide: 80,000 as of the first quarter of 2025Morgan Stanley's data only showed the level of roles it was hiring for, so we cannot analyze what kinds of jobs its looking to fill. However, we can see that they have applied for vice president-level roles the most, followed by associates and then directors.
10. US Bank
The US Bank tower is pictured in Los Angeles, California
Mike Blake/Reuters
Certified applications: 624Employees worldwide: More than 70,000 per their company websiteUS Bank is yet another bank that largely uses H-1B visas for for technology roles, such as senior software engineer. There are other financial roles though, like tax accountant, underwriter, and project manager for the firm's impact finance, focused on affordable housing.
11. Barclays
A man enters the New York headquarters of Barclays
AP Photo/Richard Drew
Certified applications: 457Employees worldwide: 92,900 as of the end of 2024The British bank's US visa hiring is also largely focused on technology. Some front-office hires included an equities derivatives trader and an equities "exotic" trader.
12. Mastercard
Mastercard
SOPA images
Certified applications: 434Employees worldwide: 32,600 per the firm's websiteCharles Schwab is also using H-1B visa to hire tech talent, with the data showing nearly 50 software development and engineering senior manager roles and nearly 100 software development and engineering manager hires. We were unable to find a single role that didn't appear to be related to technology.
13. Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo in San Francisco
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Certified applications: 391Employees worldwide: 217,000 at the end of 2024Wells Fargo joins the ranks of financial firms largely focused on technological hires in its H-1B visa applications. The data also showed certified applications for roles like lead securities trader and strategy and planning director.
14. UBS
Sergio Ermotti, Group Chief Executive Officer of UBS
Getty
Certified applications: 339Employees worldwide: 110,323 as of the end of 2024UBS had certified applications for a slew of tech and financial roles. On the financial side, it has applied for roles like investment banking analyst and associate, the entry-level role to a banking career, as well as an associate director of global markets FX trading.
15. BlackRock
BlackRock CEO Larry Fink.
Arnd Wiegmann/Reuters
Certified applications: 294Employees worldwide: Approximately 22,000 per the firm's website.Like Morgan Stanley, BlackRock only provides the level of roles hired. The bulk of roles culled by Business Insider were at the associate or vice president level, though there are also more than 20 director-level applications.
16. State Street
A State Street Global Advisors banner hangs outside the New York Stock Exchange in March 2021.
Brendan McDermid/Reuters
Certified applications: 213Employees worldwide: Approximately 53,000 as of the first quarter of 2025State Street's visa applications were largely focused on technology hires, though financial roles were also on the menu. Non-financial roles included applications for a head of internal liquidity stress testing in treasury and a global head of liquidity risk oversight.
17. Vanguard
Vanguard Group logo
Rafael Henrique/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images
Certified applications: 209Employees worldwide: Approximately 20,000 per the firm's website as of the end of 2024A large chunk of Vanguard's applications were for application engineering and other technical roles. The asset management firm also had applications for a fixed-income trader, a head of wealth management and advice, and a head of fraud, strategy, and analytics.
18. Moody's
Emmanuel Dunand/Getty Images
Certified applications: 199Employees worldwide: 15,838 at the end of 2024The ratings and research powerhouse joins the rest on the list with a focus on technologists. Senior software engineers and staff software engineers lead the way in certified applications. Some non-technical applications included a director-level sales manager, a credit associate, and a commercial real estate researcher.
19. Truist
Truist Financial Corporation logo displayed on a smartphone.
Rafael Henrique/ SOPA Images/ LightRocket/ Getty Images
Certified applications: 185Employees worldwide: 38,335 as of the end of 2024Software engineering roles made up roughly half of Truist's applications reviewed by Business Insider. Most other roles were tech-focused, such as a senior data analyst in liquidity and regulatory reporting, though there were some rare non-tech roles, such as Treasury market and liquidity risk officer.
20. Discover
Discover CD Rates 2025: CDs with no minimum opening deposit
Discover; Business Insider
Certified applications: 144Employees worldwide: 21,000 as of the end of 2024Discover joins the ranks of others on this list with roughly 100 applications mentioning data science. Other interesting technical roles included a lead robotic process automation analyst.
Recommended video
Wall Street
Visa
Banks
More
JPMorgan
Goldman Sachs
Morgan Stanley
Barclays
Wells Fargo
UBS
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account