Best Dehumidifiers for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Small Appliances
Best Dehumidifier for 2025
Dehumidifiers are great for eliminating moisture issues in your home, like mold, which could arise with warmer months. Here are the best ones, picked by our experts.
Our Experts
Written by
Pamela Vachon
Written by
Corin Cesaric
Article updated on February 25, 2025 at 1:00 PM PST
Pamela Vachon Contributor Pamela is a freelance food and travel writer based in Astoria, Queens. While she writes about most things edible and potable (and accessories dedicated to those topics,) her real areas of expertise are cheese, chocolate, cooking and wine. She's a culinary school grad, certified sommelier, former bartender and fine dining captain with 10 years in the industry. When not sitting at the keys, she leads in-home cheese classes, wine tastings and cocktail demonstrations. Expertise Wine | Cheese | Chocolate | Cooking
See full bio
Corin Cesaric Editor Corin Cesaric is a Flex Editor at CNET. She received her bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Before joining CNET, she covered crime at People Magazine and national and international news at NBC Local Television Stations. Expertise Home | Health | Energy | Climate Change | AI | Appliances
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Many things contribute to your overall health and well-being, and if you want to be at your best, then the air you breathe plays a large part in that. Poor air quality can affect your body's heart and respiratory system and cause irritation and discomfort. No one likes those things, so it's important to ensure you breathe the best air, especially inside your home. Our Picks
Best overall dehumidifier Frigidaire FGAC5044W1
Jump to details
$349 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best dehumidifier for basements hOmeLabs HME020031N
Jump to details
$200 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best dehumidifier under $200 Midea MAD22C1AWS
Jump to details
$160 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best small dehumidifier Pro-Breeze
Jump to details
$39 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best quiet dehumidifier hOmeLabs HME020030N
Jump to details
$153 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best dehumidifier for bedroom
Waykar HDCX-PD160B
Jump to details
$159 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
Table of Contents
Best Dehumidifier for 2025
Best dehumidifiers of 2025
Best overall dehumidifier
Best dehumidifier for basements
Best dehumidifier under $200
Best small dehumidifier
Best quiet dehumidifier
Best dehumidifier for bedroom
How we picked the best dehumidifiers
Dehumidifier buying guide
What to know about past humidifier recalls
The difference between humidifiers and dehumidifiers
Dehumidifier FAQs
If you experience high humidity levels, which can increase during the spring and summer months, then it can lead to issues like mold growth, which is not great for your health (it can lead to death) and also leads to further property damage. This is when a dehumidifier comes in, as they absorb moisture and improve the air quality in the home, especially during more humid months.Where areas lack proper air circulation, high humidity and potential problems are a risk. That's why using a dehumidifier's capacity to handle damp indoor spaces such as bathrooms, laundry rooms and basements is a smart move.Our CNET experts have identified the top six dehumidifiers of 2025 to help reduce humidity levels in your home. Whether you need a portable model, a larger unit for a big room or basement or an energy-efficient option, we have choices to fit every need and budget. Best dehumidifiers of 2025
Frigidaire
Photo Gallery 1/1
Frigidaire
Best overall dehumidifier
Frigidaire FGAC5044W1
Pros
Remote access
Cons
Slightly bulky
Since dehumidifiers mainly rely on refrigeration technology to pull humidity out of the air in your home, it should be no surprise that a company known for refrigerators tops this list. This 50-pint, large-capacity model offers a helpful smart capability that allows you to connect the machine to Wi-Fi and monitor the fullness of the collection tank remotely. Plus, it will turn off on its own when it’s full so there’s no need to worry about coming home to a mess, and it offers a continuous draining option, too. Another benefit of this machine is the washable filter, so you don’t need to consistently replace it. Depending on your size, budget and functionality needs, Frigidaire is always a steady choice. Most high-functioning dehumidifiers aren't winning any points for style, but this Frigidaire model has a clean, unobtrusive look. Reviewers online frequently noted a quick, drastic improvement of the humidity levels in the rooms where this was placed.  ... Show more
Get it now
$349 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Size
12.7 by 15.9 by 24.75 inchesWeight
43 poundsDrainage style
Manual or hoseReach
Not specifiedCapacity
50 pints
Add to compare
hOmeLabs
Photo Gallery 1/1
hOmeLabs
Best dehumidifier for basements
hOmeLabs HME020031N
Pros
Largest reach
This hOmeLabs dehumidifier purports to be able to manage the largest square footage among various models, perfect for managing an open-plan, damp basement or other large space with excess moisture. According to Energy Star, it's also one of the most energy-efficient options for dehumidifiers, which can save you money. Among its many benefits, this dehumidifier can also remove up to 22 pints, or 1.2 gallons, of moisture from the air each day, ensuring a humid-free home. It also features wheels and a handle for ease of moving, and it has a timer. Customers on Amazon frequently remarked that the dehumidifier was exceptionally quiet and was easy to assemble and use.
... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
11.93 by 15.43 by 24.41 inchesWeight
40 poundsDrainage style
Manual or hoseReach
4,500 square feetCapacity
50 pints
Add to compare
Midea Dehumidifier
Photo Gallery 1/1
Midea Dehumidifier
Best dehumidifier under $200
Midea MAD22C1AWS
Pros
Affordable
Quiet
Voice control
Cons
Smaller capacity
If you live with humid summers, an easy way to cut down on your monthly energy bill is to run a dehumidifier and fan in your bedroom rather than rely on central air conditioning to cool every unoccupied room in your house overnight. For bedroom needs, you probably require less power and reach, but the noise level of the unit becomes a bigger concern. This Midea model has one of the lowest decibels available, with user reviews reporting it was no louder than an average fan and emits none of the vibrating or shuddering noises that some models can make. Midea also had a strong showing among various review sites overall, with several models being designated best compact, best budget or quietest dehumidifier.In addition to the quietness of the machine, it has Wi-Fi and voice control capabilities, two drainage options and an automatic restart function that goes into effect if your power goes out. It can dehumidify up to 22 pints per day, which is equivalent to more than three gallons.  ... Show more
Get it now
$160 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
10.51 by 15.31 by 19.8inchesWeight
33.5 poundsDrainage style
Manual or hoseCapacity
22 pints
Add to compare
Pro-Breeze
Photo Gallery 1/1
Pro-Breeze
Best small dehumidifier
Pro-Breeze
Pros
Unobtrusive size
Cons
Less powerful
A solid dehumidifier that can run continuously for many hours without needing its tank drained is typically going to run you at least $150. If you're not ready for that kind of investment or want to test the waters -- pun intended -- in a small space and on a smaller budget, this miniature model could be perfect for you.Highly portable and low on energy draw, the reservoir can only collect 13 ounces at once, so it is best for use in small spaces, such as bathrooms or closets for a short amount of time. A small, inexpensive model such as this one could also be good to help you determine whether you need a more powerful dehumidifier to make a positive effect on your home environment and humidity. Amazon customers were happy with the size and ease of use of this machine.  ... Show more
Get it now
$39 at Amazon
$45 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Size
6.1 by 8.7 by 5.1 inchesWeight
1 poundDrainage stye
ManualReach
1,100 cubic feetCapacity
13 ounces
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best quiet dehumidifier
hOmeLabs HME020030N
Pros
Compact
If noise is a concern for you, the hOmeLabs 1,000 Sq. Ft Portable Dehumidifier is your best option. At 33 dB, it is ultra quiet, which Amazon customers noted as one of their favorite features in this appliance. This compact dehumidifier can remove up to 8 pints of moisture daily, and has wheels and a handle to ensure it is easy to move around your home. Like many dehumidifiers, it also offers a washable filter in addition to a removable water tank, two drainage options and a 24-hour timer.   ... Show more
Get it now
$153 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Size
7.7 by 11 by 15.2 inchesWeight
24 poundsDrainage style
Manual or hoseCapacity
24.3 pints
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best dehumidifier for bedroom
Waykar HDCX-PD160B
Pros
Sleek design
Quiet
While the hOmelabs dehumidifier above is a solid choice for a bedroom thanks to the quietness of the machine, a Waykar dehumidifier is another option you can’t go wrong with. The 2,000 square-foot dehumidifier offers intelligent humidity control and is energy star certified.It also offers a 24-hour timer and will automatically shut off when the water tank is full. The sleek and modern design ensures the appliance won’t be an eyesore in your bedroom, and the wheels make it easy for you to tuck it into a corner and out of sight. There are two fan speeds, which have noise levels of 46 dB and 40 dB, ensuring you’ll still be able to comfortably sleep through the night even while it’s running. If you have a larger space, it is also offered in additional sizes to meet your needs.   ... Show more
Get it now
$159 at Amazon
$211 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Size
9 by 12.2 by 20.9 inchesWeight
31.97 poundsDrainage style
Manual or hoseReach
2,000 square feetCapacity
34 pints
Add to compareHow we picked the best dehumidifiers
Our list of best dehumidifiers was aggregated from numerous review sites among models that had the most inclusions, as well as best-selling and top-rated models at major retailers such as Amazon, Home Depot and Lowe's. Only dehumidifiers that were Energy Star certified were considered for inclusion. We researched the dehumidifiers on this list by analyzing specs and user reviews, diving deep for mentions of persistent issues, and considering the available features and functionality compared with price as a measure of each model's overall value. We also focused primarily on those models that had high user ratings. While these were not tested in person in a lab environment, every dehumidifier on this list has been tested by numerous sites for high performance, including Consumer Reports and Best Reviews Guide. Additionally, we were able to examine several in person in order to get a feel for their footprint, design and control panel.Dehumidifiers compared
Frigidaire FGAC5044W1hOmeLabs HME010031NMidea MAD22C1AWSPro-BreezehOmeLabs HME020030NWaykar HDCX-PD160B Size (inches) 2.7 x 15.9 x 24.7511.93 x 15.43 x 24.4110.51 x 15.31 x 19.86.1 x 8.7 x 5.17.7 x 11 x 15.29 x 12.2 x 20.9Weight (pounds) 434033.512432Drainage Manual or hoseManual or hoseManual or hoseManualManual or hoseManual or hoseReach Not specified4,500 square feet1,500 square feet1,100 cubic feet1,000 square feet2,000 square feetCapacity 50 pints50 pints22 pints13 ounces24.3 pints34 pintsPrice at Amazon $263$200$179$37$145$176
Dehumidifier buying guide
Types of dehumidifiers
Some dehumidifiers are built with the option for a hose attachment. Chris Monroe/CNETDehumidifiers typically work via condensation or desiccants, with condensation models being the most common and most effective. Among condensation dehumidifiers, some smaller units can only be drained manually, where the reservoir tank must be removed and emptied periodically. (Most dehumidifiers will shut off when their reservoir becomes full.) Many larger units are also built with the option for a drain hose attachment, where the dehumidifier can drain continuously through the hose directed to a sink or floor drain. While this primarily relies on gravity, some units also include a drain pump so that condensation can be directed upward to a sink for frequent emptying and draining. Dehumidifier size and volume
When choosing a dehumidifier, finding the right size for your space is critical.  SereneLifeMost dehumidifiers are classified according to their reach, the square footage you can expect to dehumidify, as well as their volume, usually measured in how many pints of water per day it can pull from the air. The typical reach for average floor model dehumidifiers is between 1,500 and 4,500 square feet, with the capacity usually between 20 and 70 pints of water per day. However, this capacity does not necessarily indicate the volume of a given model's reservoir. In order for the dehumidifier to pull the maximum number of pints per day from the air, the unit must be allowed to continuously drain via a hose, or the reservoir must be drained manually as often as necessary.As for the size of the dehumidifier itself, if you're trying to dehumidify an average size room in your home, (i.e. not a closet or bathroom,) dehumidifiers are typically going to be placed on the floor, and have a relatively large footprint. Those on this list are, on average, about 12 inches deep by 15 inches wide, with a height of about 24 inches. There are smaller units available that can sit on a counter, dresser or desktop, but those will typically only be effective for dehumidifying small, enclosed spaces and have a significantly smaller capacity for collecting condensation. Dehumidifier features
Dehumidifiers have a wide variety of controls, including sleep timers, custom humidity settings and multiple speeds. Chris Monroe/CNETIn addition to reach and capacity, you may want to consider a number of other features when shopping for a dehumidifier. Certain models have smart-enabled capabilities, meaning you can monitor and control them remotely when they are connected to your home Wi-Fi. Models with pumps allow you to drain the water upward into a sink without relying on gravity. A defrost function might be an attractive feature if you are running your dehumidifier in a damp and cold environment. Dehumidifiers can also have a wide variety of controls, including sleep timers, custom humidity settings and multiple speeds. What to know about past humidifier recalls
In 2023, roughly 1.5 million dehumidifiers were recalled due to fire hazards after there were nearly two dozen reported fires in connection with the dehumidifiers, according to the US Consumer Product and Safety Commission. The dehumidifiers recalled were from numerous brands, including Kenmore, GE, SoleusAir, Norpole and Seabreeze. The CPSC said at the time that the dehumidifiers could “overheat, smoke, and catch fire, posing fire and burn hazards to consumers.”All of the dehumidifiers apart from the recall were manufactured by Gree Electric Appliances, Inc. of Zhuhai. The difference between humidifiers and dehumidifiers
While the answer may seem simple to you, these two appliances can often be confused. While a dehumidifier removes excess moisture from the air, a humidifier adds it back in.If your home is too dry, you may need a humidifier. If it is damp or humid, a dehumidifier is your best bet. But sometimes, you may need both -- the humidifier for your bedroom or living room and the dehumidifier in basements or rooms that are affected by humidity throughout the year. Maintaining the perfect amount of humidity in your home may seem like a balancing act, but it is well worth it in the end. Dehumidifier FAQs
How do I know if I need a dehumidifier?
A dehumidifier might be a worthy investment if certain rooms in your house feel uncomfortably humid, or if they smell dank or musty. Certainly, if you live in a humid climate, even seasonally, or don't have a central air conditioning unit, a dehumidifier can make your home more comfortable. While a fan simply moves air around the room, a dehumidifier actually removes the humidity from the air. According to the Mayo Clinic, a relative humidity level between 30% and 50% is ideal for both health and comfort, and air that is too humid can affect both your respiratory system and your skin. (Mayo Clinic is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.) A hygrometer is a simple, inexpensive device that can measure the actual humidity in your home, to make yourself aware of whether any adjustment is needed.
Show more
How do dehumidifiers work?
The most common is by a system of refrigeration and condensation. Humid air is pulled into the unit where it is cooled to the point of condensation, which is then collected in a reservoir that must be either periodically emptied manually or can be ferried into a nearby drain via a pump and hose. Some dehumidifiers work via desiccants, where certain substances such as activated charcoal, silica gel or calcium chloride, which are effective at absorbing moisture from the air.
Show more
How effective is a dehumidifier?
The effectiveness of a given dehumidifier depends on many factors, including the size of the space you're trying to dehumidify, whether it's open or enclosed, the power and reach of the particular dehumidifier you're working with and the initial humidity of the space you're trying to treat. If you're trying to dehumidify a large space with a model that is not equipped for such a space, you will likely have disappointing results, but if you use and maintain an appropriate dehumidifier for your room size and condition, you should easily notice a marked improvement in the air quality.
Show more
Where should you put a dehumidifier?
The best place to put a dehumidifier is as centrally located as possible within the space you are trying to dehumidify, without it being cumbersome or dangerous to move around. Because dehumidifiers rely on air circulation, you want to avoid placing it against a wall or a piece of furniture where airflow is compromised or its vents may be blocked. If you're using a hose for continuous draining, you'll also have to factor in the need to run the hose to an appropriate sink or drain.
Show more
Are dehumidifiers energy efficient?
Not all dehumidifiers are energy efficient, but it's important to look for Energy Star certification if you are going to run it continuously or for long periods of time to treat the air in your home.
Show more
About the Author
Pamela Vachon Contributor Pamela Vachon Contributor
Pamela is a freelance food and travel writer based in Astoria, Queens. While she writes about most things edible and potable (and accessories dedicated to those topics,) her real areas of expertise are cheese, chocolate, cooking and wine. She's a culinary school grad, certified sommelier, former bartender and fine dining captain with 10 years in the industry. When not sitting at the keys, she leads in-home cheese classes, wine tastings and cocktail demonstrations.
Read full bio
Also written by
Corin Cesaric Editor
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.