PIA VPN Review: Privacy Basics on a Budget, but Underwhelming Speeds - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
PIA VPN Review: Privacy Basics on a Budget, but Underwhelming Speeds
PIA is a great cheap VPN that doesn’t sacrifice privacy, but it’s looking long in the tooth.
Article updated on March 27, 2025 at 9:08 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Moe Long
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Moe Long Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film. Expertise Apps | Operating systems | Software
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
7.0/ 10
SCORE Private Internet Access
$2 at Private Internet Access VPN
Latest Tests
No leaks detected, 48% speed loss in 2025 tests
Network
35,000 servers in 91 countries
Jurisdiction
United States
Price
$12 per month, $40 for the first year (then $50 annually) or $79 total for three years
Score Breakdown Usability
6/10Value
7/10Speed
6/10Privacy
8/10Features
8/10
Pros
Cheaper than most competitors
Excellent privacy and transparency
Extremely customizable apps
Open-source apps
Great device support, including a Linux GUI app
Solid server network
Cons
Uneven server speeds
Somewhat clunky app design
Lots of CAPTCHAs
Table of Contents
PIA VPN Review: Privacy Basics on a Budget, but Underwhelming Speeds
Speed: Middling speed loss and lots of CAPTCHAs
Value: PIA is one of the cheapest VPNs available, but a little more money elsewhere gets you significantly faster speeds
PIA app performance: Highly customizable and largely user-friendly, yet slightly unrefined
Privacy and transparency: PIA prioritizes privacy
Final thoughts: PIA is a great cheap VPN, but it feels rough around the edges
While a bargain-bin DVD may not give you the sharpest picture or tons of special features, it still lets you watch the movie itself. Likewise, Private Internet Access may not be the fastest VPN or boast all the bells and whistles of its competitors, but it provides privacy basics on a budget. There are even some neat privacy features, like split tunneling on MacOS and Linux, but many of these may only be relevant for power users. Despite its wallet-friendly pricing, PIA remains privacy-forward, with unique offerings like open-source apps so anyone can inspect the source code for greater transparency. On the entertainment side, PIA is decent for unblocking region-restricted content, like foreign Netflix libraries or BBC iPlayer. And you’ll get unlimited simultaneous connections, which most pricier premium VPNs don't provide. To fully assess PIA, I ran over 250 internet speed tests, checked for DNS leaks, scrutinized its apps on many devices, pored over its privacy policy and communicated with the Private Internet Access team via email and video conference. In addition to running benchmarks, I used PIA for everyday tasks like streaming service unblocking to see how it fared as a daily driver VPN.But in my benchmarking, PIA’s middling internet speed loss made it unsuitable for folks with slow or unreliable internet. Its extremely customizable apps should satiate power users, but I didn’t find them the most user-friendly. During my daily usage, I frequently encountered CAPTCHAs, which bogged down my experience -- PIA tells me it plans to address this in 2025, and I’m eager to see the results of their efforts.Ultimately, PIA is a good cheap VPN, although it’s not the fastest or the most modern and polished. Speed: Middling speed loss and lots of CAPTCHAsAverage speed loss: 48% in March 2025 testsNumber of servers: 35,000-plusNumber of countries: 91PIA’s unreliable internet speed loss makes it OK for budget-conscious buyers with already fast internet but unsuitable for streaming fanatics or folks with slow internet connections.VPNs slow down your internet speeds because your data gets encrypted first rather than “talking” directly with your ISP’s servers -- it’s a minor tradeoff for beefing up your privacy. But the fastest VPNs, including NordVPN, Proton VPN and Surfshark, only reduce your internet download speeds by an average of 25% or less. In my 2025 PIA benchmarking, I clocked an average 48% internet download speed loss, which is almost identical to its 2024 performance. To put this into perspective, I generally get 300Mbps download speeds over Wi-Fi on my Google Fiber connection, so with PIA enabled, I might instead see 150Mbps -- usable for sure, but a far cry from my full bandwidth, which might matter if other devices are actively eating into that bandwidth.PIA’s server speeds fluctuated wildly Several factors influence internet speed loss with a VPN, including server load, VPN protocol and location. Typically, you’ll see faster speeds when tunneling through a VPN server physically located closer to you since your data doesn’t travel as far. For instance, I’ll usually pick a server in Charlotte, North Carolina, for optimal performance when connecting from my home office in North Carolina. Generally, the Wireguard VPN protocol is faster than OpenVPN, so to get the best speeds, you’d theoretically select Wireguard and a geographically close server. PIA’s speed results subverted my expectations, and I got slower speeds with Wireguard than OpenVPN on both Windows and MacOS. Likewise, speed tests often varied wildly from one set of benchmarks to the next. On one round of three internet speed tests, I measured an average 124Mbps download speed over a US New York server, then a 54Mbps average on the next bout. While some variability is expected based on different factors -- including server load based on the time of day -- our VPN testing process is designed to account for this, and we don’t normally encounter such drastic fluctuations. I’ve contacted PIA representatives for insight into the significant speed loss I measured, and they’re investigating. PIA plans to upgrade much of its server fleet from 1G to 10G servers in 2025, so you may encounter faster speeds over the course of the year, but that upgrade is fully rolled out. Admittedly, most people won’t be running over 250 internet speed tests, so internet speed fluctuations may not be as apparent during normal use. In real-world tests, I noticed some websites loading slower than I was used to. While streaming videos never stopped playing to buffer, I experienced some initial low-resolution playback on Windows and MacOS. The streaming experience on Android TV, Fire TV and Apple TV was smoother, with no noticeable video quality loss. PIA provides plenty of servers, but I ran into a lot of IP address quality issuesA generous global VPN server network benefits international travel, streaming service unblocking and potentially server speeds. PIA’s global footprint of 35,000 servers spread across 91 countries is in line with the industry standard -- most rivals, like ExpressVPN, Surfshark, NordVPN and Proton VPN offer thousands of servers in 100-plus countries. I was especially impressed by PIA’s US showing with servers in each of the 50 United States, making it a great choice for streaming NFL games. Despite its sizable server roster, I experienced many CAPTCHAs with apps and services -- and even Google Search -- when trying to use different servers. This isn’t unique to PIA; it’s a constant cat-and-mouse game between VPN providers and apps or websites, with IP addresses getting banned. While some folks found fewer CAPTCHAs with other search engines, like DuckDuckGo, you don’t want to switch apps purely because of your VPN. Your VPN should seamlessly slot into your daily usage, not dictate it. Nevertheless, I didn’t notice nearly the same amount of CAPTCHAs with alternatives, including NordVPN and Proton VPN. I filled out so many CAPTCHAs with PIA that I began asking myself questions like: “Does the rider’s helmet count as part of the motorcycle?” A PIA representative told me the company plans to address IP address quality in 2025, hopefully reducing the number of CAPTCHAs you might encounter. In the meantime, if you encounter many CAPTCHAs like I did, you could try a dedicated IP address, which PIA offers as an optional paid add-on. A dedicated IP costs $5 per month, $51 annually or $90 total for three years. But at that point, you may as well consider a slightly more expensive VPN.Key takeaway: PIA’s unreliable internet speed performance means it’s not great for folks with slow internet connections like satellite internet. Its solid server network provides a generous global footprint, including excellent US representation with servers in all 50 states, making it decent for travel. While my daily use was largely acceptable despite some slow-to-load websites or blocky video quality at the start of a stream, the frequent CAPTCHAs when trying to use various apps or sites proved mildly frustrating. Value: PIA is one of the cheapest VPNs available, but a little more money elsewhere gets you significantly faster speedsCost: $12 per month, $40 for the first year (then $50 annually) or $79 total for three yearsMoney-back guarantee: 30 daysPayment options: Credit card/debit card, PayPal, Amazon Pay, cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, etc.)Available apps: Windows (x86 and ARM), MacOS, Linux (CLI and GUI), Android, iOS/iPadOS, Android TV, Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, browsers, routersPIA is one of the cheapest VPNs on the market, and while it’s not the fastest or most polished, you get all of the privacy basics plus a few forward-thinking features on a budget. Its wallet-friendly pricing even includes unlimited simultaneous connections, a benefit most pricier VPNs eschew. But a little more money for a rival VPN gets you far faster speeds and a smoother overall experience.Most VPN providers charge anywhere from $10 to $15 for a monthly subscription, and PIA is in the same ballpark at $12. Usually, you’ll save money with an annual or multi-year plan. PIA’s competitive pricing undercuts many rivals at $40 for the first year (renewing at $50 annually) or $79 total for three years of service. Granted, we don’t recommend shelling out for more than a year’s worth of service up-front. Your fast, private VPN may suffer slow speeds, a data breach or difficulties unblocking streaming sites during a year. But PIA’s $79 three-year subscription is less than many one-year plans with premium providers, including ExpressVPN, making it an attractive choice, even if I don’t recommend springing for it.If you’re considering PIA, the question is whether the cheaper price is worth the trade-offs. For most people, it might not be. The value-priced Surfshark gives you much faster speeds, better streaming support and more polished apps for about $10 more than PIA for your first year. The only downside is that Surfshark renews at $79 per year, whereas PIA re-ups for $50 on its annual subscription. By contrast, PIA doesn’t make you babysit your subscription as much with its meaningfully cheaper auto-renewal. That said, you can stack subscriptions with Surfshark, meaning if you purchase a one-year plan, and then buy another one-year subscription a few months later, you’ll get an additional 12 months of service added to your account, helping you avoid a pricey auto-renewal. Despite its higher renewal price, I’d still recommend Surfshark for the average user who doesn’t mind taking a more proactive approach to avoiding an automatically renewing subscription.PIA app performance: Highly customizable and largely user-friendly, yet slightly unrefinedPIA’s apps try to balance usability without sacrificing granular control, and while that’s mostly successful, a little refinement could go a long way. Sometimes, it feels like you need to take a Udemy course to understand VPN apps, but many companies like ExpressVPN and NordVPN offer fairly streamlined apps. Private Internet Access falls somewhere in the middle; it’s not as slick and intuitive as ExpressVPN but also not as clunky as PrivadoVPN. Navigating apps largely made sense but was occasionally overwhelmingI found PIA’s VPN apps mostly user-friendly, but even as a VPN expert, I sometimes felt like there was too much going on at once. Finding most major settings was pretty straightforward, and there are some unique privacy features. I was pleased to find split tunneling on MacOS and Linux, not just Windows and Android. Only a handful of VPN providers, including Surfshark, support split tunneling on Apple computers. Split tunneling lets you route some apps through a VPN but not others. I used split tunneling on my MacBook Air M2 to download Bioshock Remastered on Steam without a VPN for faster download speeds while streaming Final Destination 3 on Netflix Germany to stay entertained while I waited for the game to install. In my testing, the kill switch -- which keeps your public IP address private in the event of an unexpected VPN disconnection -- worked flawlessly. But the settings menu felt a bit overwhelming, especially for newcomers. While I liked the control over advanced settings like connection timeout intervals on Wireguard, such options are probably overkill for the average user. While hiding these choices behind an “additional settings” menu might streamline the interface for VPN beginners, that design route could make things less obvious for power users. Juggling user-friendly design without sacrificing power-user capabilities is tricky, and I don’t mind extra settings being visible in this case.But on certain platforms, I found app navigation cumbersome. On Android, diving into the VPN server country list shows everything from lowest ping to greatest. I tried to re-order everything alphabetically and nest cities under countries for easier navigation, but to no avail. Sure, you can search in the search bar, but often, I’ll just scroll down to the country or city I want to connect to. I reached out to customer support and was informed that “...the server list [on Android] is arranged solely based on optimal ping to ensure the best possible connection quality. This setup is designed to enhance your experience by prioritizing servers that offer the most reliable performance.” I get the philosophy -- many folks will want to use a fast VPN server. But that assumes a lot about specific user behavior. Maybe I’m in the US, but want to stream something on Australian Netflix, which would be a higher ping from my location compared with more geographically close servers.Compounding the issue, some country servers have an inconsistent naming convention, so it’s sometimes easier to scroll rather than search. Australian servers are mostly named “AU [city],” for instance, “AU Sydney.” But the streaming-optimized server is “Australia Streaming Optimized.” Searching for “Australia” only pulled up the streaming-optimized server, so I then had to search just for AU, which listed all Australian servers and the lone Austrian server. I’d like the app experience polished more without losing the power user amenities. I don’t expect it to be as slick and streamlined as ExpressVPN, but more logical app design and server sorting on some platforms would go a long way.PIA streaming performance is good, although you may need to hop serversOn a budget, PIA is a great VPN for streaming from Netflix and other sites, but you can find faster VPNs with more international server locations and better unblocking capabilities.Whether you want to stream services from your home country while abroad or unblock foreign streaming libraries to save money on subscriptions, PIA does a decent job thanks to its extensive web of international servers. For folks living in or traveling to the United States, PIA’s servers in all 50 states make it a compelling option, especially for unblocking regional sports TV networks. With apps for all major streaming devices -- Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and Android TV -- PIA pairs well with your smart TV.  But rivals, including NordVPN, Proton VPN and Surfshark, offer faster speeds while delivering a more seamless streaming experience. I successfully unblocked US, UK, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, Romania, South Africa and Australia Netflix libraries. Using PIA, I watched To Catch a Killer on US Netflix, and Star Trek: The Next Generation on Netflix Canada, normally on Paramount Plus in the States. Curiously, the streaming-optimized servers in some countries, like the UK, didn’t work for me -- some streaming services recognized my connection as VPN traffic. But a quick server change to a non-streaming-optimized server allowed access. My advice: Try a streaming-optimized server first if available, but if not, select a different server.Using US servers, I effortlessly streamed Nosferatu on Peacock, Matlock on Paramount Plus and My Hero Academia on Crunchyroll. Hulu functioned on Windows and MacOS, but it detected VPN usage on Android TV. Tunneling through a Canadian server, I enjoyed The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel on CBC Gem, while a UK server let me watch The Jetty on BBC iPlayer. Max US and international streaming worked nicely, so I enjoyed Heretic on a US server and The Batman on Max Romania. Unfortunately, I had a few issues with Amazon Prime Video US, which worked on MacOS but not Windows or Android TV. Amazon Prime Video UK, on the other hand, played just fine on Windows and MacOS. Customer support: Excellent guides and reasonably responsive tech supportTroubleshooting, like a box of Band-Aids, is something you want to have at an arm’s reach but not need to use. I was impressed with PIA’s extensive guides and relatively fast customer support response times, although live chat answers left a little to be desired.  Private Internet Access boasts a robust support section with a knowledge base, support guides and community forums. The knowledge base features articles on essential topics like learning how a VPN works, testing port forwarding on Linux and managing your subscription. In the guides section, you’ll find tutorials for installing or uninstalling PIA’s VPN apps on different platforms. Live chat is available both for customers and non-customers alike. I initiated a chat and asked how to run a VPN on my smart TV. I heard back after 10 minutes and was told, “the best way is to install it [a VPN] on your router and then connect the TV to the router.” I followed up by asking, “how do I install a VPN on my router?” After about a minute, the customer service agent sent me a YouTube tutorial explaining how to install a VPN on a router. I found the initial reply somewhat helpful, but having instructions for installing a VPN on my router upfront would have been even more beneficial. Additionally, running a VPN on your router is a complex process that varies by individual router, and could void your warranty. I was surprised that the help desk rep didn’t inform me of this and first suggest an easier alternative, like using a Windows PC as a hotspot.In addition to live chat, I submitted a support ticket by filling out a Contact Us form and impressively heard back within an hour. I was pleased with the response time and the detailed answer about re-arranging apps on the PIA Android app. Key takeaway: PIA’s apps are highly customizable, which is great for experts but may be overwhelming for VPN newcomers. Streaming performance was mostly decent despite its high speed loss because of good unblocking capabilities. However, I had to server hop a bit on occasion when various streaming services detected a VPN. Privacy and transparency: PIA prioritizes privacyJurisdiction: USEncryption: AES-256-bit or 128-bit (OpenVPN), ChaCha20 (WireGuard)Open-source appsRAM-only server infrastructureNo DNS leaks detectedIndependently auditedProtocols available: OpenVPN and WireGuardAlthough PIA doesn’t provide the fastest speeds, the slickest app experience or the most cutting-edge privacy features like post-quantum encryption, it offers excellent privacy and transparency. You’ll find both the OpenVPN and WireGuard VPN protocols with modern encryption alongside customization options. For instance, you can select AES-128-bit or AES-256-bit encryption with OpenVPN. Oddly, AES-128-bit encryption comes pre-selected by default. I’d have expected the more secure 256-bit encryption instead, especially since less secure encryption didn’t produce faster speeds in my testing. You’ll also find a slew of privacy basics, including a kill switch. All of PIA’s VPN apps are open-source, meaning anyone can inspect the source code and look for bugs or vulnerabilities (assuming a level of programming knowledge). I appreciate this move, which fosters trust and transparency with users. Only a handful of other VPN companies, including Proton VPN and Mullvad, offer open-source apps. In addition to its privacy basics under the hood, PIA touts one of the most reader-friendly privacy policies I’ve perused and undergoes regular third-party audits to back up its no-log claims.PIA offers RAM-only servers and obfuscated servers, but lacks some of the advanced privacy features of competitorsPIA packs some great options to shore up your privacy, but you won’t find cutting-edge features like post-quantum encryption, a double VPN or Tor over VPN servers that many of our top-rated VPNs offer. The average user should be OK, but folks with serious privacy concerns may consider a different provider, like NordVPN, Proton VPN or ExpressVPN.Many VPN providers utilize RAM-only servers, which don’t save any VPN session data to a hard disk. Because the server stack reboots entirely after each session, there should be no data logged, which therefore beefs up privacy. You’ll also get obfuscated servers that try to mask the fact that you’re using a VPN. If you’re trying to use a VPN on a school Wi-Fi network or with a streaming service but encountering issues, obfuscated servers may help. PIA lets you pick between the SOCKS 5 proxy and Shadosocks for obfuscation, both of which attempt to make your VPN traffic masquerade as traditional web traffic. I like the choices, but you don’t get a dedicated obfuscation-focused VPN protocol like NordVPN’s NordWhisper or Proton VPN’s Stealth, which might be more user-friendly to enable. You get an ad-blocker included with an optional paid antivirus You’ll get an ad-blocker standard with optional paid antivirus software, although the latter falls short to most standalone free and paid services.PIA’s MACE feature -- which comes standard with a VPN plan -- blocks malware, trackers and ads when you’re connected to a VPN server. If you need antivirus protection, PIA offers an optional paid add-on for $4.50 per month, $24 per year or $36 total for three years. PIA’s antivirus solution may be an affordable, convenient VPN and antivirus bundle, but you can get better protection elsewhere. It’s only available for Windows, not MacOS. By comparison, Surfshark’s antivirus software works on Windows, Mac and Android. Unlike PIA’s antivirus, Surfshark’s security solution has been certified by AV-Test -- with more comprehensive coverage and third-party tests, it’s a better choice for a cybersecurity package.PIA undergoes annual third-party audits and publishes quarterly transparency reportsWhen I was in New Orleans and dined at the Clover Grill, there was a sign proclaiming “World’s best hamburgers.” When I asked the server if that assertion was true, he replied, “It’s Bourbon Street. Would anyone lie to you?” VPNs’ no-logging claims feel similar: As important as company claims are, it’s crucial to have regular audits by reputable third parties. PIA underwent a no-logs audit under the scrutiny of Deloitte and published the results in April 2024. A PIA representative confirmed via video call and email that the company has an audit queued up for 2025. I like the annual audit cadence -- while audits don’t paint a complete privacy picture, they’re crucial trust signals. And annual audits maintain that trust with reasonable frequency. Moreover, PIA’s zero-log claims have been successfully vetted in court twice, once in 2016 and later in 2018 -- in both instances, PIA had no logs to hand over. While a no-logs policy means there’s theoretically no user data to share, VPN companies still receive requests like court orders, and transparency reports offer a glimpse into how VPN companies handle log requests. PIA publishes a quarterly transparency report detailing the number of data requests from government agencies, alongside the amount of logs produced. From Oct. 14 to Dec. 31, 2024, PIA received 57 requests, giving over zero logs, suggesting your user data is safe with PIA. Depending on the jurisdiction, a VPN company may be required to share information. Because PIA is headquartered in the US -- a member of the Five, Nine and 14 Eyes data-sharing alliances -- some privacy-concerned folks may be wary. However, its excellent track record of denying data requests should provide peace of mind for most people, especially casual users who want to stream Netflix. PIA’s privacy policy is easy to read with no red flagsPrivate Internet Access takes the “private” part of its name seriously, featuring one of the most digestible privacy policies I’ve pored over. Many privacy policies -- even outside of VPNs -- can read like Dickensian word salads. However, PIA’s privacy policy is as clear-cut as it can be when it comes to legalese. While I’d like the company to take a stronger stance against data-shating across its parent company, Kape Technologies, its excellent transparency coupled with its solid privacy policy largely mitigates any concerns I might otherwise have.Sections have summaries in green, so if you want to know what you’re signing up for without reading every single word, you’ve got a jargon-free way to understand the basics. I like how straightforward PIA’s privacy policy is and how clearly it’s laid out.Private Internet Access is upfront about its commitment to user privacy. Its privacy policy states, “We collect as little personal information as possible – only what’s needed to activate your account and allow you to experience our world-class service. We need two things to sign you up for a subscription: 1) an email address, and 2) payment.” Most VPNs need those basics, with some being more invasive, and Mullvad on its own island, taking privacy effectively as far as possible by not even requiring an account to sign up.In 2019, Kape Technologies -- a company then-infamous for distributing malware -- acquired PIA. Kape owns several other VPNs, including ExpressVPN and CyberGhost. While some folks may be concerned about data-sharing considering PIA’s ownership, PIA maintains a commitment to safeguarding user data, stating in its privacy policy: “While we may disclose collected Personal Data to necessary members in our group of companies (across our ultimate holding company and all its subsidiaries) insofar as is reasonably necessary to continue our Service in line with this Policy, we regard our commitment to user privacy as paramount.” PIA’s disclaimer about data-sharing within its holding company is similarly reassuring to what its sibling company, ExpressVPN, has in its privacy policy. I wasn’t too concerned, especially since PIA outright says in its privacy policy, “We keep minimal personal data. We will NEVER share any of the data we have on our users with anyone, anything, or any entity unless doing so is absolutely necessary for us to keep providing our award-winning service.” Still, ExpressVPN’s privacy policy is even firmer about sharing data with “...related entities…only when required, and for the duration required, for processing solely related to the purposes and legitimate interests outlined in this Privacy Policy, while ensuring at all times the same data protection standards.” I’d like to see PIA address its Kape ownership and data-sharing or lack thereof even more forcefully.PIA is headquartered in the US, which may worry some folks with critical privacy concernsUnlike providers such as Proton VPN or NordVPN, PIA’s jurisdiction falls within the US, which is a member of the Five, Nine and 14 Eyes data-sharing alliances. Addressing its compliance with law enforcement requests, PIA’s privacy policy says, “...although we will comply with all valid subpoena requests, our legal team scrutinizes each and every legal request that we receive for compliance with both the ‘spirit’ and ‘letter’ of the law…PIA will not participate with any law enforcement request that is unconstitutional or illegal. Moreover, when it is possible and a valid option, we will provide the user an opportunity to object to any requested disclosures.”But because PIA doesn’t log user data -- a claim backed up by annual third-party audits -- there should theoretically be little information to pass along besides an email address, payment data and billing address information associated with an account. Additional privacy mitigations, like RAM-only server infrastructure, further safeguard your VPN session data. Its easily decipherable privacy policy reiterates PIA’s commitment to privacy and should assuage all but those with the most serious privacy concerns.Key takeaway: While PIA falls short of many rivals because of its uneven speed loss and highly customizable albeit slightly less refined app design, it hits the privacy and transparency nail on the head. You’ll find one of the most streamlined privacy policies of any VPN on the market, open-source apps, annual audits and a quarterly transparency report. People with demanding privacy concerns, like political activists or asylum-seekers, may be off-put by PIA’s US jurisdiction and Kape Technologies ownership, but for most casual users seeking basic privacy or international streaming capabilities, that shouldn’t be a deterrent. Final thoughts: PIA is a great cheap VPN, but it feels rough around the edgesPIA is a long-time VPN provider that gets a lot right, particularly by providing serious privacy without breaking the bank. But in my 2025 testing, PIA is lagging behind the top of the pack. At $40 for the first year, PIA undercuts most competitors by anywhere from $8 to $60 annually. Even its renewal price of $50 is still cheaper than most rivals. For the price, you get a VPN that’s good for streaming and travel while packing useful privacy basics alongside some rare features, like split tunneling on MacOS. But a little bit more money for another VPN -- notably Surfshark -- can give you a much better experience.PIA’s uneven speed loss makes it a tough sell for folks with slow or unreliable internet connections. And while I liked the customizability of its apps from a power user's perspective, odd design choices, like not being able to view a list of countries alphabetically on Android, are counterintuitive. Additionally, I experienced a lot of CAPTCHAs when trying to use websites and apps, including Google Search and some streaming services. This made everyday tasks, like trying to look something up on Google or stream an episode of a show on Amazon Prime, an occasionally frustrating experience. To be fair, this is a challenge all VPN providers face, but I ran into a lot more roadblocks with PIA than in my 2025 Nord VPN and Proton testing. PIA told me the company has plans to address many of the pain points I encountered, so I’m hopeful those efforts make for faster speeds and fewer internet browsing roadblocks as the year progresses.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
MOE LONG
Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.