This AirTag alternative fits my wallet and works well with Android phones - it's priced well, too | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
This AirTag alternative fits my wallet and works well with Android phones - it's priced well, too
$20 is a price worth paying for peace of mind and a snug fit.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 4:04 a.m. PT
LuLuLook AirCard Pro
ZDNET's key takeaways The LuLuLook AirCard Pro is thin, lightweight, and fits seamlessly into wallets. The built-in rechargeable battery lasts for 4 to 5 months between top-ups. Handy slot cut to allow the finder to be attached to luggage. $24.69 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.My grandfather had a saying -- a place for everything, and everything in its place. It turns out that I'm not as tidy as he was, and I have a tendency to… misplace things. For me, Apple AirTags have been a total game-changer, and I have them attached to my keys, embedded in my bags and luggage, and even have one in my car and e-bike.Also: He tracked his luggage with an AirTag - what he found was straight out of a movieThey're amazing bits of kit, but they do have one big drawback -- they just don't fit well into a purse or wallet. Even at only 0.31 inches (8.0 mm) they make their presence known. While you can get clips and adapters, I don't think they work.What's needed is a super-thin version of the AirTag -- like the LuLuLook AirCard Pro.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS LuLuLook AirCard Pro The perfect tracker for your wallet, purse, or luggage.
details
View at Amazon Designed to work with the Apple Find My network, at only 0.07-inch (1.8 mm) thick, it's no thicker than two credit cards, so it slips into a wallet, purse, or passport holder like it's been designed to be there. There's a slot cut in the card to accept a luggage tag strap, perfect for keeping an eye on your stuff when traveling. The card comes with a lanyard for you to attach it to, well, whatever you want to track.The AirCard Pro is tough enough to survive the rigors of being bent and flexed in a wallet -- I don't normally go about my life with a leather wallet in my back pocket, but I suffered for this review to make sure it was up to the job. Also: Want to cut your electric bill? Skip these scam 'power-saving' devices - and buy this insteadThe tag is also IP68 rated, which means that it's completely dustproof and can survive immersion in up to 1.5 meters of water for half an hour, making splashes and rain no problem for it. I left mine out in the UK summer rainstorm, which subsequently turned into a sunny day in the high 80s before raining heavily again in the evening, and it survived.
There's a lot of tech -- te finder, speaker, battery, and charging coil -- packed into such a small gadget. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET While regular AirTags are powered by CR2032 button cells, the AirCard Pro has a built-in rechargeable battery (yes, there's a battery in there) that can be recharged using any Qi/MagSafe wireless charger (yes, there's everything you need for wireless charging inside the card too!). The built-in battery lasts about four to five months between recharges, and your iPhone will give you a heads-up when it's time to pop it on the charging pad.Also: I built a custom AirTag that Apple will hate me for (and how you can do it, too)The card has a 150-foot Bluetooth detection range on the iOS Find My app, and it has a built-in speaker that's loud enough to find the tag even if it's buried with your luggage or your wallet is under a pile of sofa cushions. The only feature that this -- and all other third-party finder tags for the Apple platform -- is missing is precision finding, the ability to get real-time distance and directional guidance to the lost item from your iPhone. Other than this, the performance is pretty much on par with that of the AirTag.I also tested this by sending it in the mail to myself, and I had no problems following it on its journey around North Wales (it's quite surprising just how fast mail moves once it's collected from the post office). ZDNET's buying adviceAt $19 per finder tag, or three for $54, this is a great way to prevent the frustration of misplacing things and a great gift for the absent-minded and easily distracted.It's not the perfect location tracker on the market, as the lack of precision finding can be a shortcoming for some users, but it's hard to nitpick at its sub-$20 price.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is off by default and hidden - turn it on now
I've tested several AirTag wallets and found the ones worth buying
I built my own AirTag-like tracker with this Raspberry Pi alternative - how it works
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use