How to tip The Verge: email, Signal, and more
The Verge homepage
The Verge homepage
Tech
Reviews
Science
Entertainment
Updated Sep 3, 2024
How to tip The Verge: email, Signal, and more
Do you know something The Verge should investigate? Here’s how to get in touch.
Note: this is only for editorial tips. For advertising, technical support, and other inquiries, go here.
Some of our most important stories start with tips. We’re always looking for information about the companies and products that shape the way we live, insight into the government agencies responsible for regulating the environment and tech we interact with daily, and other stories about the impact technology has on human beings. Evidence is key: firsthand experience or revealing documents will be more useful than a hunch. Have you encountered something that the public should know about? If so, we want to hear from you.
How to tip The Verge
Email
Email is the easiest way to reach us. Send tips to the general Verge email here: tips@theverge.com
If you are at risk of reprisals, do not use your work email, Wi-Fi, or device.
Signal
You can also send tips using the app Signal, which encrypts text messages and calls. Signal stores your number and the last time you accessed the app, but not who you communicate with. Be sure not to use your work phone. You can download Signal here.
Email addresses and Signal accounts for specific Verge staffers can be found on their author pages linked on this staff list.
Depending on what version of Signal you’re using, you may need to add numbers as a contact before beginning a conversation. The contact can be deleted once the conversation has begun. The Freedom of the Press Foundation offers additional guidelines for locking down security on Signal.
In accordance with best practices set by the Freedom of the Press Foundation, this page is being served over HTTPS without third-party analytics or ad trackers.
More from
Tech
Verge Homepage
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Cookie Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Info
Licensing FAQ
Accessibility
Platform Status
How We Rate and Review Products
Contact
Tip Us
Community Guidelines
About
Ethics Statement
The Verge is a Vox Media network
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media
©2023 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved