Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry job with City University of Hong Kong | 12844792
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry
Employer
City University of Hong Kong
Location
Hong Kong (HK)
Salary
Competitive
Closing date
15 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Chemistry
Job Type
Faculty Member
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) is one of the world’s leading universities, known for innovation, creativity and research.  We are now seeking exceptional scholars to join us as Assistant Professors/Associate Professors/Professors/Chair Professors (on substantiation-track) in all academic fields with special focuses on One Health, Digital Society, Smart City, Matter, Brain, and related interdisciplinary areas.  Research fields of particular interest include, but not limited to:
- biomedical science and engineering
- veterinary science
- computer science and data science
- neuroscience and neural engineering
- bio-statistics and AI-healthcare
- smart/semi-conductor manufacturing
- AI/robotics/autonomous systems
- aerospace and microelectronics engineering
- energy generation and storage
- digital business and innovation management
- fintech and business analytics
- computational social sciences
- digital humanities
- digital and new media
- law and technology
- private law
- healthy, smart and sustainable cities
Successful candidates should have a demonstrated ability to build a world-class research programme related to CityUHK’s strategic research areas, plus a commitment to education and student mentorship.  Candidates must possess a doctorate in their respective field by the time of appointment.
Applications and nominations are invited for:
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry [Ref. R/023/25]
Duties
Teach and conduct research in Chemistry; support the mission of excellence in professional education and research; establish and maintain robust research programmes; and carry out administrative work and other duties to facilitate the development of the Department as a whole.
Requirements
A PhD degree with strong background in Chemistry.  For the positions of Chair Professor/Professor, candidates should possess a proven record of distinguished scholarly accomplishments including significant external funding support, strong leadership capabilities, and a track record of active participation in academic affairs with balance and excellence in teaching and research activities that matches the interests of the Department.
Preferences will be given to candidates with expertise in Biological Chemistry, Chemical Biology, and Pharmaceutical Chemistry. Other areas, such as AI-Driven Computational Chemistry and Inorganic Chemistry, will also be considered.
Salary and Conditions of Service
Remuneration package will be driven by market competitiveness and individual performance.  Excellent fringe benefits include gratuity, leave, medical and dental schemes, and relocation assistance (where applicable).  Initial appointment will be made on a fixed-term contract.
Information and Application
Further information on the posts and the University is available at http://www.cityu.edu.hk, or from the Department of Chemistry, City University of Hong Kong, Tat Chee Avenue, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong (email : crystalky.wan@cityu.edu.hk).
To apply, please submit an online application at http://jobs.cityu.edu.hk, and include a current curriculum vitae. Nominations can be sent directly to the Department (email: crystalky.wan@cityu.edu.hk).  Applications and nominations will receive full consideration until the positions are filled.  Only shortlisted applicants will be contacted; and those shortlisted for the post of Assistant Professor will be requested to arrange for at least 2 reference reports sent directly by the referees to the Department, specifying the position applied for.  The University's privacy policy is available on the homepage.
City University of Hong Kong is an equal opportunity employer. We are committed to the principle of diversity. Personal data provided by applicants will be used for recruitment and other employment-related purposes.
Best Global Universities Rankings #54 (U.S.News & World Report 2025-2026); World University Rankings #78 (THE 2025); #1 in the World’s Most International Universities (THE 2024 & 2025); Young University Rankings #4 (THE 2024); Asia University Rankings #16 (THE 2025) and #10 (QS 2025)
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Send job
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Open Rank Faculty Position (Tenure/Teaching/Research Stream) - School of Science and Engineering
Shenzhen, China
Global Talent Recruitment of Shanghai University in 2025
Shanghai (CN)
Nanyang Assistant/Associate Professorship (NAP)
Singapore (SG)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software