Airport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
News
Featured
Latest
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
LastPass: Fake password managers infect Mac users with malware
Airport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
American Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityAirport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
Airport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
By Ionut Ilascu
September 22, 2025
05:24 PM
0
The disruptions over the weekend at several major European airports were caused by a ransomware attack targeting the check-in and boarding systems.
Among the airports suffering technical difficulties are Heathrow in London, Brussels Airport, and Brandenburg in Berlin. Cork and Dublin airports in Ireland also experienced difficulties, but the impact was minor.
The attack started on Friday night, according to Brussels Airport, and targeted “Collins Aerospace, the external provider of check-in and boarding systems.”
Hackers targeted the MUSE (Multi-User System Environment) system, which is used by multiple airlines to share check-in desks and boarding gate positions, as a solution to having their own dedicated infrastructure.
“Following a cyberattack on the American company Collins Aerospace, the external provider of check-in and boarding systems, there are disruptions to check-in operations at several European airports,” Brussels Airport says on its website.
Ransomware attack confirmed
The European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA) told The Guardian in a statement on Monday that a ransomware attack caused the disruptions.
The incident impacted a significant number of flights, as more than 100were either delayed or cancelled, and thousands of passengers had to be processed manually.
Brussels Airport said that disruptions continued on Monday and advised passengers to check the status of their flight before coming to the airport.
Collins Aerospace has been working to restore the system as soon as possible at impacted airports.
Law enforcement is also involved in the investigation, according to a spokesperson for the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) in the U.K.
“We are working with Collins Aerospace and affected UK airports, alongside Department for Transport and law enforcement colleagues, to fully understand the impact of an incident,” the NCSC states.
The agency is urging all organizations to turn to its free guidance, services, and tools to improve their security stance and reduce the risk of a cyberattack.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Ionut Ilascu
Ionut Ilascu is a technology writer with a focus on all things cybersecurity. The topics he writes about include malware, vulnerabilities, exploits and security defenses, as well as research and innovation in information security. His work has been published by Bitdefender, Netgear, The Security Ledger and Softpedia.
Previous Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
CISA exposes malware kits deployed in Ivanti EPMM attacks
Sponsor Posts
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT