You Don’t Need to Climb Everest to Have a Fulfilling Retirement | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
You Don’t Need to Climb Everest to Have a Fulfilling Retirement
Where People Get Stuck in the 3 Stages of Life Transitions
How Fear Can Stop People From Finding Fulfilling Goals for Retirement
Home
Personal Finance
You Don’t Need to Climb Everest to Have a Fulfilling Retirement
You Don’t Need to Climb Everest to Have a Fulfilling Retirement
Don’t let your fears of planning the end of your career stop you from finding your new beginning.
Jess Bebel
Sep 21, 2025
Share
On this episode of The Long View, author and retirement coach Larry Jacobson breaks down how people can plan for the nonfinancial aspects to retirement, what to expect during life transitions, and more lessons on retirement planning from his book, Your Ideal Retirement Workbook, A Step-by-Step Guide to Retiring With Purpose and Fulfillment.Listen to the full episode of The Long View Larry Jacobson: ‘The Good Things in Our Life Are What Get in the Way of Great Things’ The author and adventure sailor on thinking big, changing your life course, and managing the transition into retirement. Here are a few highlights from Jacobson’s conversation with Morningstar’s Christine Benz and Amy Arnott.You Don’t Need to Climb Everest to Have a Fulfilling RetirementChristine Benz: So, I felt like a lot of the book got me thinking about doing really big things in retirement. But what about people who maybe do have somewhat more modest goals? So, you reference the idea of making every soccer game for your grandkids or something like that. Do you think that thinking big can be kind of stymieing for some people, that they think they need to climb Everest or sail around the world in order for their retirement to be a success? Can you make it a little smaller scale and still be happy?Larry Jacobson: Absolutely, you can make it smaller scale. Whatever your dream, whether it’s to sail around the world or open a corner coffee shop, that dream is just as valid as mine was of sailing around the world. And it’s more valid because it’s yours, it’s not the other person’s. I say, think big, because we’re always told, or we’ve been told that through our lives don’t be a daydreamer, be practical. And I want to encourage people to not think like that. If there’s a remote idea of moving to Italy to write the book in Tuscany, I want people to think that, hey, they can do that. They really can do that. And so, don’t think small. But if your dreams are to open a little corner coffee shop or to go to your grandkids’ soccer games or be their coach or something, that is a perfectly valid dream as long as something that you’re doing is giving you long-lasting purpose and fulfillment. We forget that at work, we have purpose and fulfillment. We have the idea and the feeling that we’re part of something larger than ourselves. And that’s what I want people to strive for in their retirement. Where People Get Stuck in the 3 Stages of Life TransitionsAmy Arnott: Do you ever run into people who aren’t really sure what they want to do in retirement and is there any value in taking more of an experimental approach where you might try a few different things to see what you like?Jacobson: Absolutely. Most people don’t know what they want to do, and that’s a big reason why clients come to me is, they’re going to say, I’m ready to retire, or usually clients come to me about a year after they’ve retired. And then they’re like, “Geez, I thought there’d be more, I thought it’d be more fun. I thought there’d be more to it. But I’m ending up just fixing the dishwasher and mowing the lawn.” And it’s easy to take up your time in retirement doing things like that. But just the idea of your transition to finding something that you want to do requires experimentation for a lot of people.So, I subscribed to the philosophy of William Bridges, a great guy who wrote a book called Transitions. And he basically says that transitions come in three stages. And the first stage of a transition is an end. It’s the end of something. It’s not the beginning. It’s the end. So, you graduate, or you get married or divorced or a move or someone dies or something like that. That’s the end. And that’s what begins the transition. And then the middle stage is the exploration of new things and things that you maybe aren’t sure what you want to do. I think, again, I was lucky in that I knew that I wanted to go sailing, but most people don’t have that. And then after you’ve experimented around for a lot of different things comes the last stage, which is the new beginning. And that’s when Julie Andrews comes running over the hillside singing the hills are alive and everything is beautiful, and the birds are chirping, and the grass is green and everything. But it’s important to remember though that each of these stages is not a parking lot. What I caution people about is that you get into stage two and experimentation and it’s great. It’s funny. Try tennis. You don’t like tennis. You try pickleball. You don’t like that. Then you try traveling to castles in Europe. OK, that was fun. Now let’s try something else. But we’re still looking for that purpose and fulfillment. That’s something that makes you feel part of something larger than yourself.How Fear Can Stop People From Finding Fulfilling Goals for RetirementArnott: And in thinking about those three phases, it seems like in the first stage where something is ending, I’m imagining people might get stuck at that stage, if they’re sad about the end of a career or kids leaving the house or things like that.Jacobson: You are exactly right. They do get stuck there and that’s why I try to urge people into the second stage as quickly as possible. But I do caution people saying this is not a parking lot. You’re not staying here forever. So, choose something. Do it. If you don’t like it, that’s OK. Fear plays a big role in retirement. And one of the fears that people have is that they’ll choose the wrong thing, that they’ll go down the wrong road, that they might not like what they’ve chosen. Well, that’s OK. You can stop and you can do something else. And you do it until you find something that you do like or where you do get that feeling of purpose and fulfillment that you’re part of something larger than yourself.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Personal Finance
View All
Dana Anspach and Fritz Gilbert: ‘This Is What a Joyful Retirement Could Feel Like’ A financial advisor and retirement blogger discuss the key phases of retirement, structuring portfolios for drawdown, and how retirees can give themselves ‘permission to spend.’
Christine Benz and Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
How to Calibrate Your Target Savings Rate Rules of thumb are better than nothing, but smart investors customize their own savings targets.
Christine Benz Sep 22, 2025
Should You Hold Cash Investments After the Fed Cuts Interest Rates? Plus, how investors should think about Oracle’s phenomenal outlook.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA, Dan Kemp, and Ivanna Hampton Sep 19, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Jess Bebel Associate Multimedia Editor
More from Author
Jess Bebel is an associate multimedia editor at Morningstar.
You Don’t Need to Climb Everest to Have a Fulfilling Retirement
Jess Bebel Sep 21, 2025
The US Economy Is at a Turning Point—and the Stakes Are Higher Than You Might Think
Jess Bebel Sep 7, 2025
Why the Global Economy Is Headed Back to the 1930s
Jess Bebel Sep 1, 2025
Don’t Mistake a Founder’s Charisma for Commitment
Jess Bebel Aug 24, 2025
Think of the Stock Market as Great Businesses—Not a ‘Hissing, Writhing Bag of Poisonous Snakes’
Jess Bebel Aug 17, 2025
Are US Stocks Overpriced Again?
Jess Bebel Aug 13, 2025
Why No One Is Better at Finding a Fair Price Than the Market
Jess Bebel Aug 11, 2025
Why Value Investing Still Works—If You Do It Right
Jess Bebel Aug 3, 2025
How One Rule Can Simplify Your Spending Decisions
Jess Bebel Jul 27, 2025
Will Private Equity Be Able to Gain Enough Retail Capital to Maintain Its Growth?
Jess Bebel Jul 20, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility