3 best Game Pass games to play this weekend (Sept. 19-21 2025)
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Check out what Game Pass has to offer before Hades 2 consumes your life
3 Game Pass games we're playing this weekend (Sept. 19-21)
By
Austin Manchester
Published 5 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
3 cute, extremely gory stories from the set of Primate
5 days ago
Shelby Oaks should kickstart Chris Stuckmann's horror movie career
6 days ago
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Sep 17, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: MachineGames/Bethesda Softworks
A packed fall gaming season just won't stop. Hot off the heels of the highly anticipated release of Hollow Knight: Silksong, Supergiant Games announced Hades 2 is set to leave early access next week (and launch on Nintendo Switch systems too). While Hades 2 won't be on Game Pass at launch, its predecessor returned to the service to celebrate its five-year anniversary. But Hades and Hades 2 aren't taking up all our time just yet. The weekend is the perfect time to chip away at your backlog, or try out something new. This week's recommendations include a Game of the Year contender, a must-play multiplayer game, and one of the best horror games around.
Indiana Jones and the Great Circle
Image: MachineGames/Bethesda Softworks
Licensed movie tie-in games get a bad rap, but don't let that dissuade you from playing Indiana Jones and the Great Circle. It's legitimately excellent, even without the cross-promotional branding. For one, Troy Baker turns in a Harrison Ford impression so frighteningly good that Ford himself expressed praise while literally on stage (if you're familiar at all with Ford's public persona, you know how rare that is). Rather than a hastily realized action game, the Great Circle is a first-person puzzle sandbox, closer to the likes of Dishonored or Hitman than to Ghostbusters: The Video Game. Shrewd headscratchers and tense stealth segments anchor open-ended levels where you methodically piece together grand mysteries. You actually, dare I say, feel like you're a globe-trotting genius tomb rai- ahem, discoverer. The Great Circle only just missed the cutoff for Game of the Year 2024, but is back in the awards conversation thanks to a recently released expansion. Sadly, the DLC is not on Game Pass, but the excellent base game is — and is well worth checking out. —Ari Notis
Golf With Your Friends
Image: Blacklight Interactive/Team 17
I have been thinking about golf a lot lately. It started when I interviewed Baby Steps co-creator Bennett Foddy back in August and he spent a lot of time waxing poetic about why it’s such a perfect game full of choke moments. Since then, I’ve gone on to play a whole bunch of Everybody’s Golf: Hot Shots and some rounds of Walkabout Mini Golf VR with a friend. For whatever reason, I’ve got the itch in me now. So it’s a good weekend to hop back into one of the best golf games — and frankly one of the best multiplayer games — out there in Golf With Your Friends. It doesn’t need much introduction: it’s a mini golf game that you can play with up to 12 pals. Simple. It’s an incredible hangout game that’s simultaneously a chill thing to chat over and absolutely chaotic when you have a bunch of people teeing off at the same time. If you’ve never tried it before, I recommend working it into your multiplayer rotation right alongside Peak. —Giovanni Colantonio
Dead Space
Image: Motive Studio/Electronic Arts
I never finished Dead Space back in 2007 (it was very scary for a preteen, okay?), but that changes this year. In addition to the original game and its sequels, the 2023 Dead Space remake is on Game Pass (available through EA Play via a Game Pass Ultimate membership). It puts you in the rig of Isaac Clarke, a miner who has to shoot, dismember, and stomp his way through zombie-like creatures that have taken over the spaceship his girlfriend is stationed on. Dead Space isn't just straight-up horror, though it is terrifying. It also borrows backtracking from Metroidvanias, and provides enticing side quests to ensure you want to explore every corner of the ship. In some sequences, it feels like a straight-up action game, and Isaac's arsenal would make some third-person shooters jealous. I can play it for no longer than an hour at a time as it's truly horrifying, much like FX's Alien: Earth. And like that show's best episode, Dead Space is all about the creepy confines of a spaceship where you never know what horror lurks around the corner. —Austin Manchester
What to Play
Gaming
Xbox
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
Here's what the Dragon Quest 7 remake is re-imagining
Sep 17, 2025
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
Sep 17, 2025
No one is actually skating in the new Skate
Sep 17, 2025
Sony's Anaconda movie reboot is, if nothing else, a really good idea
More from our brands
Hades 2 Doesn't Have An Xbox Release Date, So The Original Is Returning To Game Pass To Make Up For It
The Best Multiplayer Games on Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
Best Local Co-Op & Split-Screen Games On Steam
Best Games On PC Game Pass (May 2025)
Best Horror Games On Xbox Game Pass (March 2025)
The Best Games On Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
Best Single-Player Games On Xbox Game Pass (January 2025)
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
What Michael Rooker's multiple roles in the DCU mean for the canon
PSA: You have 1 week to claim these free shiny Legendary Pokémon in Scarlet and Violet
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.