Compare Credit Cards: Find the Right Card and Apply Online | The Motley Fool
Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility
This device is too small
If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience.
Skip to main content
Advertiser Disclosure
Many of the offers that appear on this site are from companies from which The Motley Fool receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear) and may influence which products we write about, but our product ratings are not influenced by compensation. We do not include all companies or offers available in the marketplace.
|    Accessibility Options
Credit Cards
Credit Cards
Best Of Lists
Best Credit Cards of September 2025
Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses
Best Travel Credit Cards
By Issuer
Best American Express Cards
Best Chase Cards
Best Discover Cards
All Credit Card Reviews
Credit Card Tools
Compare Credit Cards
Credit Card Interest Calculator
Balance Transfer Calculator
Credit Card Guides
Credit Cards 101: A Beginner's Guide
Credit Card Guides
Credit Card Comparisons
Credit Card Articles
Banks
Banks
Best Of Lists
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Checking Accounts
Best CD Rates
Best Money Market Accounts
Bank Reviews
SoFi Checking & Savings Review
American Express High Yield Savings Review
Capital One 360 Performance Savings Review
All Bank Reviews
Knowledge & Tools
Bank Account Comparisons
Emergency Fund Calculator
All Banking Resources
Banking Guides
Guide to Banking
How to Choose a Bank
Types of Bank Accounts
All Banking Articles
Brokers
Brokers
Best Of Lists
Best Stock Brokers of September 2025
Best Free Stock Trading Apps
Best IRA Accounts
Best Options Trading Platforms
Best for Beginners
Best Stock Brokers for Beginners
Best Investment Apps for Beginners
Top Reviews
Fidelity Review
SoFi Review
Robinhood Review
All Brokerage Reviews
Guides
How to Choose a Brokerage Account
How to Open a Brokerage Account
Guide to Brokerage Fees
All Brokerage Articles
Crypto
Crypto
Best Of Lists
Best Crypto Exchanges
Best Bitcoin Exchanges
Best Ethereum Exchanges
Top Reviews
Coinbase Review
Gemini Review
Crypto.com Review
All Crypto Reviews
Knowledge
A Complete Guide to Cryptocurrencies
Types of Cryptocurrencies
How to Invest in Crypto
All Cryptocurrency Articles
Mortgages
Mortgages
Best Of Lists
Best Mortgage Lenders of September 2025
Best Refinance Lenders
Best Mortgage Lenders for First-Time Homebuyers
Best Home Equity Loan Lenders
Best Mortgage Rates
Today's Best Mortgage Rates
Today's Best Refinance Rates
15-Year Mortgage Rates
30-Year Mortgage Rates
Mortgage Tools
Mortgage Calculator
Get Pre-Approved For a Mortgage
Guide to Mortgages
Guides
Mortgage Lender Reviews
First-Time Home Buyer Guide
All Mortgage Articles
Insurances
Insurances
Auto Insurance
Best Auto Insurance
Auto Insurance Reviews
Auto Insurance Articles
All Auto Insurance Resources
Homeowners Insurance
Best Homeowners Insurance
Homeowners Insurance Reviews
Homeowners Insurance Articles
All Homeowners Insurance Resources
Life Insurance
Life Insurance Reviews
Life Insurance Articles
All Life Insurance Resources
Loans
Loans
Best Of Lists
Best Personal Loans of September 2025
Hardship Loans
Best Debt Consolidation Loans
Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit
Lender Reviews
Upstart Personal Loans Review
Citi Personal Loans Review
All Personal Loans Reviews
Personal Loan Tools
Loan Payoff Calculator
How Much Personal Loan Can You Get?
What Credit Score Do You Need?
Personal Loan Guides
How to Get Pre-Approved for a Loan
How to Apply for a Personal Loan
Balance Transfers vs. Personal Loans
All Personal Loan Articles
About Us
About Us
Knowledge
Personal Finance Guides
Market Research & Insights
2025 Award Winners
All Motley Fool Money Articles
Motley Fool Money
About Motley Fool Money
How We Make Money
Editorial Integrity
Our Rating Methodology
The Motley Fool
The Motley Fool
Stock Market News
Motley Fool Premium Services
Motley Fool Money Podcast
Search Icon
Click here to search
Search Icon
Click here to search
Search For
Motley Fool Money
Credit Cards
Compare Credit Cards
If you're in the market for a new card, you should do your research to choose the best credit card for your needs. Use this comparison tool to search for cards you're interested in, add any of our choices, or view a full list of cards. You can also look for specific types of credit cards or cards that match your credit rating. Once you're done adding cards, click the Compare button to compare credit card offers.The side-by-side tool gives you a full breakdown of the cards you choose. You'll see:Our star ratingsFeesAPRsWelcome bonusesRewards programsIt's all the info you need to make comparing credit cards faster and simpler.Choosing your next credit card doesn't need to be a difficult process. Use our tool to compare credit cards and find the right offer for you.
TIP
Credit Card Comparison Guides
Want to see some of our favorite credit cards compared head to head in more detail? We've broken down the perks, benefits, and drawbacks of different cards, with a focus on their rewards programs, welcome offers, fees, and more. Check out The Motley Fool's list of credit card comparisons for all the details.
FAQs
What's the best way to compare credit cards?
You can figure out which credit card is right for you by following these simple steps: Figure out your credit score. This could help eliminate cards you don't qualify for. Decide which features are most important to you. For example, if you're planning on making large purchases that you won't pay off immediately, you may want a card with a promotional 0% APR. Likewise, if you're a frequent traveler, you might want a rewards credit card or airline card.Compare multiple cards on terms, perks, and rewards. Using our tool above, select a few cards that have the general features that you want. Then, compare specifics, like the card's interest rate or length of its promotional 0% APR offer. If your card earns cash back or rewards, compare things like its earn rate on bonus categories (like groceries and gas) and whether it has valuable insurance built into it.Narrow down to one card. In general, it's not a great idea to apply for multiple cards at one time. So once you've identified a card that packs the most punch, apply for it on its website.
What are the different types of credit cards?
If credit cards were people, they would be a lively, quirky bunch, more idiosyncratic than conventional. Nonetheless, each would belong to a specific group, perhaps not unlike how people congregate with those who share their interests. In general, here are five types of credit cards you'll often encounter. Cash back: These cards earn a percentage of your everyday purchases as cash money, which you can get as a statement credit, check, deposit into your checking account, gift card, among others. Many of these cards have a base rate (such as 1%) and bonus categories that earn higher rates for certain purchases, like groceries, gas, and dining out. Rewards credit cards: These cards earn points or miles, the value of which depend on how you redeem them. These cards can pack more value than cash back cards, but you may have to redeem points for specific purchases -- like travel -- to get the most value. Balance transfer cards: Balance transfer credit cards can help you pay off high-interest debt by transferring a balance from a loan or credit card to a card with low interest or a promotional 0% APR. You may have to pay a fee to initiate this balance.Credit builder cards: Or "cards for bad credit." These credit cards may not have the most lucrative perks, but they can help you build or mend your credit score. Many require an upfront deposit -- known as "secured credit cards" -- which become collateral if you don't pay a balance after a few missed payments. Student credit cards: For all those who want to start building credit early, these cards are made for you.  In addition to these categories, you'll find numerous subcategories. For instance, airline and hotel cards may fall under rewards credit cards, along with certain store cards which earn points for that specific store. Grocery and gas cards might be a subcategory of cash back cards, while 0% APR cards can overlap with any of these categories.
Should you pay an annual fee to use a credit card?
It might seem counterintuitive to pay a fee to use a credit card, especially if you have excellent credit. But sometimes the card's perks and rewards more than pay for the annual fee itself, in which case you would actually be leaving money on the table if you used a no fee card instead. To find out, you'll need to examine the card's rewards program and decide if your spending will generate enough rewards to make up the credit card's fee. For instance, if your card has a $95 annual fee and earns 2 points (worth $0.01 apiece) for every $1 spent -- like the Capital One Venture Card -- you would need to spend $4,750 to earn enough points equal to $95.
As of Apr. 30, 2025
Ratings Methodology
Updated
Feb. 14, 2025
Share This Page
Facebook Icon
This icon shares the page you are on via Facebook
Blue Twitter Icon
Share this website with Twitter
LinkedIn Icon
This image links to share the page over LinkedIn.
Email Icon
Share this website with email
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. Motley Fool Money does not cover all offers on the market. Motley Fool Money is 100% owned and operated by The Motley Fool. Our knowledgeable team of personal finance editors and analysts are employed by The Motley Fool and held to the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.
Terms may apply to offers listed on this page.
The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Join 35,000+ Americans getting smarter with their money -- one email at a time
Get expert advice, actionable strategies, and exclusive offers that help you save more and spend with confidence.
Sign Up
By submitting your email address, you consent to us sending you money tips along with products and services that we think might interest you. You can unsubscribe at any time. Please read our Privacy Statement and Terms &
Conditions.
Motley Fool Money is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters.
Facebook Icon
This icon shares the page you are on via Facebook
Blue Twitter Icon
Share this website with Twitter
btn_instagram-yellow
Copyright © 2018 - 2025 Motley Fool Money. All rights reserved.
About Motley Fool Money
About Us
Contact Us
Newsroom
How We Make Money
Editorial Integrity
Ratings Methodology
RSS Feed
About The Motley Fool
Legal
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Policy
Terms and Conditions
Copyright, Trademark and Patent Information
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Learn
Credit Cards
Banking
Brokerage
Cryptocurrency
Mortgages
Insurance
Loans
Recent Articles
Back to The Motley Fool