Dangerous PC hardware myths for novice PC builders
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
1
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
5 most dangerous PC hardware myths for novice PC builders
By
Tanveer Singh
Published 2 days ago
After a 7-year corporate stint, Tanveer found his love for writing and tech too much to resist. An MBA in Marketing and the owner of a PC building business, he writes on PC hardware, technology, and Windows. When not scouring the web for ideas, he can be found building PCs, watching anime, or playing Smash Karts on his RTX 3080 (sigh).
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
1
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When new PC users enter the fray, hoping to avoid the most common PC building mistakes, they're susceptible to dodgy advice. From CPUs and GPUs to motherboards and storage, the PC community has no dearth of opinions for the novice PC builder. While most of this advice is well-intentioned, some myths surrounding PC hardware can be harmful to the average user, especially their wallet. Here are the myths you should keep an eye out for if you're new to PC building.
Never cheap out on the motherboard
Go ahead and do that, I assure you!
On the surface, this appears like sound advice. After all, should you ever cheap out on any component if you can help it? Well, it turns out there are some components that you can realistically save money on without endangering the reliability or performance of your new PC. The most surprising of them all is perhaps the motherboard, often called the foundation of any build. Unlike popular opinion on many PC hardware forums, buying a cheaper motherboard will not have any negative effects on your other hardware, as long as you're not gunning for the coolest temps or most extreme overclocks. Sure, there are terrible motherboards on the market once you start dipping into the sub-$150 segment, but you also get value-for-money offerings that are perfectly fine for most builds. There are enough quality motherboards in the $130–$150 range, especially from brands like ASRock, that feature decent VRMs, plenty of Gen4 M.2 slots, onboard Wi-Fi, and respectable I/O. Most people don't really need Gen5 M.2 slots, support for the fastest RAM, overkill VRMs, or dozens of USB ports. You shouldn't be pressured to waste money on an expensive motherboard, especially if it doesn't benefit you in any way.
Source: Newegg
ASRock B650M Pro RS WiFi
The ASRock B650M Pro RS WiFi motherboard is surprisingly great for its price, which makes it one of the best B650 options for AMD's Ryzen 7000 CPUs.
$150 at Newegg
$150 at Walmart
Expand
Collapse
Budget PCs are a waste of money
Budget gaming is still alive
Budget PC hardware might not be in the best state right now, but building a decent budget PC is still easy, even in this market. The price of entry might have crept closer to $1,000 rather than $800, but that budget gets you into 1440p gaming territory. With GPUs like the RTX 5060 Ti 16GB and RX 9060 XT 16GB, and CPUs like the Ryzen 5 7600, you're pretty much set for the near future. Saying that spending $1,000 on a PC is a waste is shortsighted. Of course, $1,500 would get you a better experience overall, but you can always upgrade your budget PC over time. A mid-range GPU after 2–3 years, and a new CPU after 5 years, will keep your PC going well into the future, while also allowing you to stagger the total cost over time. At a time when consoles have touched the $700 price point, adding $300 to build a more powerful and versatile PC is far from wasteful. The best part is that a slightly pricier $1,200 PC will catapult you into 4K gaming in most titles (at MSRP, of course).
XFX Swift AMD Radeon RX 9060 XT 16GB OC
$390
$420
Save $30
The RX 9060 XT 16GB is one of the best GPUs you can buy for the price. Its 16GB VRAM, combined with the much-improved RDNA 4 architecture, provides excellent 1440p gaming performance.
$390 at Amazon
$400 at Newegg
Expand
Collapse
High-end gaming requires high-end CPUs
It's rarely true
What if you're not building a budget gaming PC at all? New builders who have the money for a high-end rig might believe every single component of their PC has to be expensive. However, except for the graphics card, you can realistically pick mid-range or even budget components in all other departments, and still enjoy a top-tier gaming experience. New builders often feel compelled to pair a high-end CPU with their high-end GPU to "balance" the configuration. They're either afraid of bottlenecking their graphics card or feel that a budget or mid-range CPU has no place on a high-end gaming rig. The reality is that overspending on the CPU rarely increases your gaming performance. Unless you're pairing a Ryzen 7 9800X3D (or better CPU) with the RTX 5090, you can make a case for a modern 6-core CPU alongside your RTX 5080, RTX 5070 Ti, or RX 9070 XT. A faster CPU will fail to justify its premium on most gaming builds, doing little more than making you feel better that you own a high-end and "future-proof" processor.
Source: AMD
AMD Ryzen 5 7600X
$179
$299
Save $120
Brand
AMD
CPU Model
5 7600X
Cores
6
Threads
12
Architecture
Zen 4
The previous-gen Ryzen 5 7600X is still one of the best 6-core gaming CPUs you can buy. Its 65W TDP and comparable performance to its successor make it a great choice for any build.
$179 at Amazon
$205 at Best Buy
$180 at Newegg
Expand
Collapse
Intel CPUs are still better than AMD CPUs
At rallying rabid fans, sure
There was a time (long ago) when Intel CPUs were clearly ahead of AMD in gaming. Intel's chips led the way in single-core frequency, AMD's Ryzen architecture didn't exist, and Ryzen X3D CPUs were still further into the future. Today, however, the writing's on the wall — AMD is at the top in gaming CPUs or otherwise, Intel's chips are struggling to justify their prices, and stability woes have rocked the company inside out. Still, some people on the internet continue to defend Intel chips as if their lives depended on it. They believe AMD's popularity is just a clever marketing stunt, cultivated by paying YouTubers and producing gaming CPUs that are good for nothing else. It's funny how fast Intel fanboys moved the goalposts when it was AMD's turn to shine. A lack of competition is good for no one, but new PC builders should make the smarter choice in any market, which at the moment happens to be AMD.
An Nvidia GPU is the only real option
More like the most powerful and expensive
This particular myth is a relatively new entry to the list, since for the longest time, Nvidia was the best option when it came to discrete GPUs. With AMD's recent RDNA 4 GPUs (and even RDNA 3 and RDNA 2), the GPU market has seen a resurgence. Don't get me wrong: Nvidia still rules in terms of market share. However, users have a lot more to choose from now, especially after Intel's second-gen Battlemage GPUs revitalized the budget segment. Over the last few generations, AMD GPUs struggled at the high-end, with additional concerns around drivers and operating temperatures, and Intel wasn't even on the radar. Today, the RX 9000 series has some of the best mid-range GPUs on the market, and Intel seems to be the only one trying to put out fantastic budget offerings. Nvidia still has the most powerful GPUs on the market, but they're getting increasingly out of reach of most consumers. Nvidia's mindshare is so strong that new PC builders usually forget that there are three players on the market, not one. Fortunately, budget and mid-range gamers alike now have legitimate contenders to Nvidia's offerings. If only the prices of AMD and Intel GPUs were closer to the MSRP, they would make for the perfect choice for the sub-$600 and sub-$300 segments, respectively.
Research the market instead of believing every Redditor
The best thing new PC builders can do before buying components is to invest the time and effort in gauging the pulse of the market. Instead of being lazy and trusting everyone on the internet for build advice, watch some reliable creators and read trusted publications to form your own opinions. It's not hard to build a PC in 2025; what's hard is avoiding harmful advice masquerading as foregone conclusions.
Other Hardware
CPU
GPU
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Dennis
Dennis
Dennis
#TW550754
Member since 2025-07-23
0
Threads
3
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Very gamer-centric article. I'm an AI/3D guy. Am I in the wrong place?
2025-09-20 18:24:21
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
Wi-Fi 7 is exciting, but here's why you shouldn't buy a new router (yet)
4 days ago
The surprising reason I finally undervolted my GPU
4 days ago
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
4 days ago
This is the zero-config dashboard I wish I’d installed on day one
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
7 ways to decrease your PC's power usage
6 LXCs that can cover 90% of your Proxmox home lab usage
6 tools that turned my NAS into the ultimate backup system
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.