This free and open-source app helps me keep track of all the stuff I usually forget
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This free and open-source app helps me keep track of all the stuff I usually forget
By
Nolen Jonker
Published 1 day ago
Nolen began their writing career in 2019, with three years dedicated to editing the Creative section at MakeUseOf. Their expertise lies at the crossroads of technology and creativity, covering areas like photography, video editing, and graphic design.
Outside of work, you'll often find Nolen diving into a good book, writing their own stories, or playing video games.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Jump links
Jump Links
Simple task management
It has a scheduler
There are reminders and timers
It’s also great for project planning
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Jump Links
Simple task management
It has a scheduler
There are reminders and timers
It’s also great for project planning
I’ve lost count of how many productivity apps I’ve tried. They all promise to fix my scattered brain, but many just end up overcomplicating things. Between syncing, paywalls, and 50 different “views”, I often end up spending more time managing the tool than getting work done. All I really need is something to help me keep track of the stuff I usually forget and organize it in a digestible way, without turning it into a second job. Enter Super Productivity. It’s free, open source, and built with zero fluff. Tasks, notes, time tracking, and even integration tools, if you need them, all bundled into one lightweight app. I’ve started using it daily, and it’s one of the only productivity apps that actually stuck. Super Productivity isn’t trying to reinvent the wheel, it just does what I need and gets it out of the way.
Simple task management
Add tasks with one click, and expand them if needed
Many productivity apps bury you in features and forms just to get a simple to-do list on the board. By the time I’m done, I could have finished the actual task. Super Productivity makes adding tasks beyond frictionless. When you open the app to the default view (the Today tab), clicking the little plus icon at the top is all it takes to get tasks on the board. All I have to do is type in my task title, hit Enter, and it’s in my to-do list. I've yet to find a productivity tool that's so efficient and quick. The simple click-and-add function is all I need most of the time, but for those who want more functionality, Super Productivity doesn’t leave you hanging. Every task has an Additional Info button that expands it into a detailed note. Here, you can add things like timers, description text (it uses Markdown editing), attachments, and tags. This is great for tasks that need a little more expansion; for example, my “get groceries” task needs a list of groceries. Super Productivity also has a checklist feature in the description text box which makes it easier to check off sub-tasks or items. This task + notes functionality compresses the app into something more manageable. I get to choose how light or heavy each task is — from only a task title, to tasks that expand into long notes with checklists. You can drag tasks around to order them however you like, and checking the tick mark completes the task. There’s a Finish Day button which clears the desk by pushing all the day’s tasks to the bottom, whether you’ve completed each one or not — getting confetti thrown at me for making it through the day is very nice.
It has a scheduler
And it’s perfect for time-blocking
This is my favorite part of Super Productivity and where I spend most of my time in the app. There’s a Schedule tab in the left panel, which takes you to a calendar-based layout of the week. Every column is the day of the week, and every row is an hour of the day. This is the exact layout I need for time-blocking; a technique I use to carve out focused periods for certain tasks. Super Productivity’s scheduler doesn’t exactly have a time-blocking feature built in, so I have to use my imagination a bit here… You can add a task to a specific time slot by hovering anywhere; just click, and a little block gets added that you can fill out with the task name. To make this work for my time-blocking method, I add consecutive blocks to cover the span I want to dedicate to a specific activity. For example, from 9 AM - 12 PM, I’ll add blocks for “write”; from 1 PM - 4 PM, I’ll have blocks for “design”; and so on. Stacking these little blocks together creates the overarching time blocks that structure my day. And by viewing my scheduler in Super Productivity every day, I can’t miss them — they help me remember to do the thing.
There are reminders and timers
I can set up alarms everywhere
Every task you add comes with both a reminder and a time tracker option. The reminder, labeled Planned At, lets you set an alarm for any time and day. Just make sure your alarm sound is configured in the settings (and that your speakers or headset aren’t muted). This simple alarm system has saved me from forgetting so many things throughout the day. The timer is also straightforward: click the play button and start the task. I’ve got my timer set to the Pomodoro interval since it’s the best technique for me to stay focused.
It’s also great for project planning
The project planner is built in
The same way you can add tasks to every day of your week, you can also create projects in the Projects tab and add tasks to each one. This article, for example, was one of my weekly projects. So I created a project for it and broke it down into tasks for every section I needed to write. I use this Projects section for anything with a clear deadline or larger goal — it’s especially helpful for my multistep design projects. Each project almost acts as a mini dashboard; it prevents me from forgetting stuff by laying out exactly what needs to get done, plus I can see my progress at glance.
The app that remembers for me
I’ve only scraped the surface with Super Productivity’s offerings — there are Kanban boards, tags, cloud integration, and loads of customizations. But I only need it to help me remember my responsibilities, which is exactly how I’m using it. The navigation is beyond simple and intuitive; I don’t have to go digging through features to plan out my days. And the reminders and timers keep me on track so I have no excuse to forget.
Super Productivity
See at Super Productivity
Expand
Collapse
Software and Services
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
I found a secret Obsidian plugin and now I never fumble at my tasks
2 days ago
Windows 11 version 25H2 is almost here — and it's so boring it almost becomes interesting
3 days ago
4 reasons why I have started to look for NixOS alternatives
4 days ago
The free Obsidian plugins that simplified my productivity workflow
Today's best deals
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
2 hours ago
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
14 hours ago
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Winux is a Linux distro that looks like Windows 11, but that's not a good thing
macOS Tahoe is apparently breaking the Touch Bar Apple seems to have forgotten
6 silent PC hacks that don't hurt your performance
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.