How to use your Apple Watch's Hypertension Detection feature (and why you should) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
How to use your Apple Watch's Hypertension Detection feature (and why you should)
The latest health-tracking feature on the Apple Watch has life-changing implications. Here's how to turn it on, and how it works.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 24, 2025 at 6:50 a.m. PT
Nina Raemont/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple's Hypertension Detection feature could be the reason you learn about your high blood pressure. The feature is available on the latest lineup of Apple Watches that the tech giant unveiled earlier this month, but it's also available on later models updated to WatchOS 26. Hypertension Detection recently received FDA clearance, validating the feature's clinical ability to detect hypertension in Apple Watch wearers. In developing the feature, Apple used data from more than 100,000 study participants to understand the presence in the body.Also: Apple just got FDA clearance for Hypertension Detection - does your watch support it?Hypertension Detection monitors blood pressure over a 30-day period to measure blood volume. After 30 days, the user receives a rating that indicates whether their blood pressure is above or below the hypertension threshold. This feature does not monitor daily or hourly blood pressure and can't take momentary readings. Instead, it's a detection mechanism that views blood pressure activity longitudinally. The idea behind the longer monitoring period is that a one-time blood pressure reading doesn't offer a full picture of blood pressure health in the same way as a 30-day monitoring period. Which watches support Hypertension Detection? Apple unveiled the Hypertension Detection feature on the new Series 11 and Ultra 3. The feature is also available through WatchOS 26. Smartwatches that can be updated to the latest software include Apple Watch Series 9 and later, and Ultra 2 and later. The Apple Watches SE do not have this feature. How to enable Hypertension Notifications Go to the Health app on your iPhone. Select the Search button, then select the Heart tab. Scroll down to "Get More From Health" and select "Set Up" for hypertension notifications. Go back to the Health app's main screen, and tap your Profile in the top right corner. Tap Features and then Health Checklist. Then select "Onboard hypertension notifications." How to use Hypertension Notifications An Apple Watch user will wear the watch for 30 days. After 30 days, Apple Watch will notify them of whether their blood pressure is within or above the hypertension threshold. If their 30-day average is indeed above the hypertension threshold, Apple suggests consulting with a doctor to review the hypertension data the watch collected. Since the Apple Watch cannot take by-the-minute blood pressure readings, a doctor may suggest that the user take daily readings with a traditional blood pressure monitoring cuff. Also: I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice nowApple Watch users can log their daily diastolic blood pressure readings through the same Hypertension feature. Apple Watch users can export that log into a PDF to send to a doctor. Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Apple just got FDA clearance for Hypertension Detection - does your watch support it?
I'm not swapping my Apple Watch for the AirPods Pro 3's heart rate tracking - here's why
Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older models
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use