Astronomy: Books and Journals | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Astronomy
Our publications include reference works, textbooks, monographs, proceedings, popular science, and open access content. Well-known titles in the field of astronomy are Living Reviews in Relativity, The Astronomy and Astrophysics Review, and the Encyclopedia of Astrobiology.
Subdisciplines
Astronomy, Astrophysics & Cosmology
As a branch of astronomy, astrophysics explores the physical foundations of astronomical events, while cosmology involves studies into the origin and evolution of the universe. On our page, you will find a comprehensive collection of well-known journals, books and book series for students, teachers, researchers and interested readers. Our well-known titles include Living Reviews in Relativity and the Astronomy and Astrophysics Library.
Space Science
Springer publishes current research results, journals, books and other publications on space sciences and extraterrestrial physics. The physical properties of other stars and planets open up an exciting field of research for astronomers. In addition to researchers, students and lecturers will find what they are looking for in the numerous book and journal publications in this field. Our well-known titles include Space Science Reviews, Solar Physics, Living Reviews in Solar Physics and the Astrophysics and Space Science Library.
Astrobiology
Theories and scientific findings on the origin and development of life forms in space form the basis of astrobiology, whereas planetary sciences study the planets, moons and planetary systems as well as the processes that form them. The specialist literature on these fields published by Springer reflect their interdisciplinarity and offers a wide range of titles including our well-known Encyclopedia of Astrobiology, Living Reviews in Solar Physics and the series Advances in Astrobiology and Biogeophysics.
Space Exploration & Astronautics
Our books in the discipline Space Exploration & Astronautics illuminate insights from both a historical and a technical perspective. Experts, scientists, and students will find numerous titles on space probes, space stations, satellites and telescopes as well as publications with the latest research results from space travel at Springer. Our publications include the book series Space Exploration, Space and Society and The Journal of the Astronautical Sciences.
Popular Astronomy
The fascination for space research extends far beyond the borders of science and inspires laypersons and fans of astronomy all over the world. In our online shop, interested readers will find numerous popular science books on the universe and the star, including The Patrick Moore Practical Astronomy Series and Astronomers' Universe. Let these beautifully illustrated books for armchair and amateur astronomers take you on an informative journey through space.
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Publish with us
Selecting the right publisher is one of the most important decisions an author will make. At Springer, we recognize that our authors are the heart of what we do and we are committed to provide the resources, support and advice you need to help you succeed.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature