This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 15, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
We've seen a few good sales on Steam lately (such as
this popular military sim going as low as $3), but when you're talking pure value for money, you really can't go wrong with free. Steam often hosts "play for free" events, where people can try out a game without paying a cent, with the caveat that it's only available for a short amount of time, after which you'll need to buy it. However, very rarely, we'll see a game go "free to keep", which means that if you grab it during its promotional window, you own it—forever.
Well, if you're looking for a comedic puzzle game, Steam has just the thing for you. A title called "Puzzle Chambers" has just become free to keep, but you'll need to be quick before it reverts to a paid title again.
Puzzle Chambers is free to keep forever until September 19th
Puzzle Chambers is an odd title; it was released back in December 2017, but I've only just learned of its existence today. The premise seems really interesting; a group of people finds themselves in a strange place where they must solve puzzles to figure out what's going on. Here's how the developers describe it:
After waking up in a mysterious place, you quickly discover three things:
-Everyone there has supernatural abilities.
-It’s not a safe place.
-And your hosts are either aliens, monsters from another dimension, or seriously messed up human beings.
Unfortunately, it doesn't seem its interesting design choices resonated too well with players. At the time of writing, it has a 74% positive rating, with people praising the writing and the story but finding the actual puzzles a little lackluster. Regardless, if you think it's an interesting premise, you can always head over to the Puzzle Chambers Steam page and give it a go without paying anything. However, don't dawdle; the game will only stay free to keep until September 19th, so as long as you add it to your library before then, you'll have it forever. And if that's not enough, check out the best puzzle games on Steam.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 14, 2025
I tried turning my old Android phone into a Linux server, but ended up distro-hopping instead
Sep 14, 2025
I added my project and meeting notes to NotebookLM and the results were wild
Sep 14, 2025
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
Sep 14, 2025
SMART data might make you misdiagnose a drive, sanity check these 6 parameters first
More from our brands
35 Great D&D Puzzle Ideas
Blue Prince: How to Reach the Statue in the Cloister Room
OFF: The Room Guide
Every Game You Can Get For Free On The Epic Games Store Right Now
That's Not My Neighbor: Every Answer To Chester's Quiz
All PS5 Games That Work Cross-Platform On Steam & PC
30 Best Co-Op Games On Steam (April 2025)
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
23 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Forget VRAM — these 5 GPU trends are way more disturbing
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
I replaced all my bash scripts with Python, and here’s what happened
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.