35 Bad Horrible DatesSkip To ContentBuzzFeed HomepageSign InBuzzFeedQuizzesShoppingTrending NewsCelebrityBuzz ChatArcadeQuizzesShoppingArcade Celebrity Trending NewsBuzz Chat Browse links NewslettersThe best of the internet, delivered straight to your inbox!Pop CultureTV & MoviesCelebrityBest of the InternetAnimalsMusicRewindBooksLGBTQQuizzes & GamesArcadeNEW!LatestTrendingFoodLoveTriviaQuiz PartyShowdownShoppingLatestHomeFashionTechBeauty & Personal CarePetsSports & FitnessVideoLatestCocoa ButterMom In ProgressWorth ItUnsolvedMultiplayerPero LikeLifestyleTastyStyleTravelGoodful: WellnessNifty: DIYParentsFoodWeddingsSex And LoveCommunityMake a Quiz or Post!Featured PostsLeaderboardFrom Our PartnersSafe HavenBack to School PrepCollege CurationAboutAbout UsAdvertiseInvestor RelationsJobsEditionUSUKAustraliaCanadaDeutschlandIndiaJapanLatamUS residents can opt out of "sales" of personal data.Do Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationPrivacy SettingsPrivacy Settings
© 2025 BuzzFeed, Inc PressRSSPrivacyConsent PreferencesUser TermsAccessibility StatementAd ChoicesHelpContactSitemapBuzzFeed TastySearch, watch, and cook every single Tasty recipe and video ever — all in one place!BuzzFeed GoodfulSelf care and ideas to help you live a healthier, happier life.HuffPostNews, Politics, Culture, Life, Entertainment, and more. Stories that matter to you.BuzzFeedQuizzesShoppingTrending NewsCelebrityBuzz ChatArcadeQuizzesShoppingArcade Celebrity Trending NewsBuzz ChatSex & Love·Posted 18 hours agoSubscribe to BuzzFeed Daily NewsletterCaret Down35 Bad, Bad, Badddd Dates That Are So Wild, You'll Be Grateful For Every Mediocre Dating App MatchDating is not for the weak.by Kayla YandoliBuzzFeed StaffFacebookPinterestLink
We covered a Reddit thread that asked, "People who discovered a deal-breaker partway through a date, what was the rest of the date like?"
NBC
Unfortunately, this inspired our BuzzFeed Community to share their own experiences that'll leave you positively floored.
Island Records
So, here are some of the worst dates that have most likely scarred people for life:
Note: Some submissions include mentions of sexual harassment and domestic violence. Please proceed with caution.
1.
"I was on a casual date in a park with a guy I had never met before. Everything was going fine, but then he suddenly stopped me, looked at me all wide-eyed, and said, 'I’m going to shit my pants.' We then walked to a Starbucks so he could, and I sat there for around 20 minutes. He Snapchatted me a photo of himself from the bathroom, sitting on the toilet, the kind of side-top angle where I could see his ass cheeks, balls, and all. I called my dad to drive me home 😭."
—u/OutrageousDoodle
2.
"I went on a second date with this guy. The first one was just a quick lunch, but the second date was an evening movie. After the movie, we went to his car (I had driven separately). We started kissing and maybe three minutes later, he asked, 'Do you want me to put it in?' I was initially confused by the question since it was so out of nowhere. When I realized what he meant, I said 'no.' Then he asked for a blowjob instead. When I said 'no,' he said, 'Okay, how about just a handjob then?' I said 'no' again, of course. He then said, 'Okay, well, I’m going to have to go home and finish this myself. I have it down to 10 minutes.' I promptly got out of the car and was so glad I drove separately! The next morning he had the nerve to text me and ask me out again?! What an idiot."
—casualprincess58
ABC
3.
"I was set up by an acquaintance on a blind date. The man had lost his wife to COVID about two and a half months earlier. He felt the need to 'mansplain' absolutely everything to me. By the time he dropped me off, I knew he had erectile dysfunction, and how he and his wife were 'creative' sexually. He also shared that he had a penile implant put in right after she died, and there were brand new sheets on his bed. I said, 'I'm not interested — take me home. Now.' He did."
—Anonymous
4.
"I (a gay man) went on a first date with a cute guy. It was going well until we started talking about our families. I shared that I had a brother close in age, so he asked if we looked alike. I said, 'Not really. I went into basketball, so I've always been tall and slender. He went into weightlifting, so he's tall but bigger-framed.' He paused, looking me up and down, and replied, 'Damn. Your brother sounds effing hot. Is he single?' Yeah, that was our only date. Some things are better kept in your head."
—Anonymous
5.
"First, she didn’t feel like going out, then she insisted on going out (because she had a bad day, and 'you’re fun'). She picked me up, and as we ate dinner shortly after, she confessed her bad day was because she asked out a coworker and he rejected her and told everyone else, so she had to quit now. I asked for the check immediately (I actually gave the waiter my card first to move it along faster — he saw it on my face and obliged). As she was dropping me off at my place, she started ranting about how I probably hated her, told me to call her a bitch (I didn’t), then looked at me laughing and said, 'You think I’m gonna do something craazzyyy?!' and took her hands off the wheel. At that moment, the light up ahead turned red, I jumped out, slammed the door, and walked home."
—u/DopeCharma
NBC
6.
"I went on a blind date with a coworker's daughter (horrible idea — you should never do this). She wanted to go to a specific restaurant that was known to be a little 'shady.' I picked her up and immediately knew this was a terrible idea. She just came off as really entitled and rude. We got to the restaurant, sat down, and ordered drinks. I had a beer, and she got a cocktail and almost immediately started flirting with an older man who was clearly intoxicated. She convinced him to buy us a round of drinks and then completely ignored him. I was shocked, but we continued the date. I stopped drinking because I needed to drive, but she continued and got a couple of more drinks before we finally left."
"As I was driving her home, I asked why she wanted to go to that restaurant specifically. Well, it turned out she was barely 19, and they don’t card her there, apparently (this is in the US). I was 22 at the time and was under the impression that we were the same age. There was no second date, but I was able to save face with my coworker and learned a valuable lesson."—u/alowlybartender
7.
"I was catfished (before the term was invented, we called it 'Myspace angled'). It was my literal first-ever date. I met this girl on Myspace who lived 30 minutes from me and was going to go to the same tiny college I was going to in the fall. We clicked and decided to meet. I showed up at her place with flowers and was nicely dressed. I was met by her parents and siblings at the door. The father was in the military and grilling me. I was nervous and felt awkward. After 10 minutes, she finally came downstairs. She is dressed like she is going to prom and is the same woman in the pics, just about 100 pounds heavier. She gave me a quick hug and gave me a printed picture of her. Besides being 'Myspace angled' and feeling obliged to take her out, she proceeded to tell me how our future lives were going to go. We would be the 'it couple' on campus, and then we'd marry after graduation. Again, this was my first date."
"Thankfully, dinner ends quickly. But, she said, 'Oh, it's still early — didn't you say we should see a movie?' Having never been on a date before, my reaction was, 'Yes, let's see this new horror movie.' She said she wasn't a huge horror fan, so this will sink the date. I asked her, and she said it was a great idea.When I got home, she texted and called nonstop, wanting to know if I had made it home okay. I said I had, and I was going to bed.The next day, I started to try to fade out. She didn't like that, and I blatantly said, 'I'm sorry. I didn't feel the spark. Besides, I think it would be best if we both attend college single.' She cried and demanded a few more dates. I declined.Fast forward a few weeks, and we have pre-freshman orientation in the summer. I met a woman who was 100% more my type there, and we clicked. We did long-distance.Around this time, the catfish started calling and bugging me. She said she heard I was dating someone else. She wouldn't stop calling, texting, and messaging me on AIM and Myspace. I had to block her.College started, and she, of course, lived in my dorm (so did the girl I was long-distance dating). We eventually broke up, and after we did, my catfish would 'run into me' on campus. She created new AIM accounts all the time and messaged me about how she was dying of cancer, and her last wish was to sleep with me.Eventually, she faded away, stopped bugging me, and left that college at the end of the semester."—u/BigBearSD
NBC
8.
"It was a first date from a dating app. He met me at the front of the agreed-to restaurant, saying that he was inside and saw a coworker and wanted to switch to a different restaurant because he didn’t want them to know he was online dating. I agreed to move it to a different restaurant a couple of blocks down. This ass had the nerve to ask if he could 'do a lap' around the restaurant first before we sat down to see if he knew anyone. I should’ve ended the date there, but I let him do his lap, and 'the coast was clear.'"
"We sat and had one drink. He was awkward — it wasn’t going to work.I politely told him so as I stood up to go. I laid down $10 for the drink. He got so mad, yelling and following me out to the parking lot, saying, 'You ruined my weekend! This is my only day off!' He screamed at me. I got into my car as quickly as I could and left."—laughingghoul465
9.
"Back in the day, I went on a first date with some dude I met at the YMCA playing racquetball. We went to a surf and turf place at the beach, and he said to order whatever I wanted! He was ordering drinks, a steak, and lobster dinner, the works. So, the dude got up to use the bathroom and never came back!!! OMG, I was mortified and had to call my dad to come to pay the bill because it was well over $100. So, what did I learn, kids? Always carry cash or a card with you when you go out. And what happened to the jerk? My dad actually found him at the YMCA and got his money back."
—icyhedgehog46
10.
"We had met through Craigslist and subsequently spoke a few times on the telephone. I thought that I was honest about my looks and personality, which I objectively think are a 'seven.' I arrived at the restaurant first and ordered a beer. This class act (who is hardly 'model material') literally took one look at me, said 'nope,' put some money on the table, and walked out. Because the thrown money would not cover my beer, I had to wait to get checked out by the server, who had witnessed all this. I called my date furious when I got home. I got as far as saying something like how dare you when the real bad guy in all this starts yelling at me for having the audacity to call! I hung up."
—tvdvdguy
StudioCanal
11.
"I met this guy at a bar (yeah, I know — great start). We exchanged numbers, and the next day, he asked me on a date. When it came time, he told me I needed to pick him up because he lost his license for a DWI. We went to a restaurant, which was nice enough. He got two drinks there, and I got one. He asked if I wanted to go play pool somewhere else and get more drinks, and I agreed. While we played pool, he had three more drinks and watched a basketball game the whole time. We then went to a different bar, where he got five more drinks (I had maybe three drinks total by this time)."
"He got so drunk and proceeded to tell me all about our future wedding and the song we'll dance to. I told him I needed to go, implying that he needed to wrap it up so I could take him home. He said I could go and that he'd find a ride. Two hours later, while I was in bed, he called me asking for a ride home. Against my better judgment, I picked him up and took him home. He was very drunk. Before he got out of the car, he kissed me very sloppily and told me he loved me.There wasn't a second date."—Anonymous
12.
"I met this girl on Tinder, who was very chatty and flirty online, and arranged to meet for drinks and a meal. We met up, and she arrived 30 minutes late. The chatty and flirty person I'd been talking to just wasn't there at all. She had short, curt answers and was CONSTANTLY on her phone. I felt like I was doing all the heavy lifting with the conversation. We sat at our table, and we were about to order, and she leaned over and said, 'Oh, you got this right?' I'm not averse to paying for a first date, but to have it put so bluntly pissed me off, considering how poor the conversation was. She proceeded to order the most expensive items on the menu and a large cocktail for herself, all the while I was trying to make conversation and get to know her. When she was on her phone, I peered over and saw what she was doing: She was on Tinder right in front of me, messaging other guys while on our first date."
"I saw red — I refused to be treated like that by anyone. I excused myself to go to the bathroom and surreptitiously whipped my jacket off the back of my chair while going. I went to our waiter and explained what had happened, and he was like, 'Oh, man, I'm sorry to hear that.' I paid for my drink and tipped him for being so helpful. I canceled my order, but told him to keep her order in place. He smiled and said, 'I know what you're doing...good luck to you!' Then I left.15 minutes later, my phone was getting message after message from her asking where the hell I was, saying that she didn't have her purse on her, etc. I blocked her, went off to a pub and called a mate to meet me to rescue the night with beer and laughing over the situation. One of the worst, but definitely memorable dates."—u/DownFromTheAttic
13.
"This guy struck up a conversation with me when I was grocery shopping, and we exchanged numbers. We met up for coffee a few days later, and it was fine at first until he admitted he’d been casually 'stalking me,' waiting for the perfect moment to ask me out (I should have run then). He then went into a detailed description of everything he wanted to do to me sexually. I ended the date at that point and thought that was that. He texted me later, saying he had a great time and that for our second date, we should go get ice cream and take it back to his place so he could lick it off my body. I blocked him after that and thankfully haven’t seen him since."
—Anonymous
NBC
14.
"I was asked out to a concert with a girl who had an extra ticket. We met two hours before the concert. She was talking about how the singer used to send her dick pics. She also admitted that she was banned from the band's concerts for a while due to stalking them. I wanted to give the band at least a chance, but it was awful. That was our first and only date."
—u/kicsako
15.
"She arrived stoned an hour late to the bar and decided to get her nails done five minutes before the date. She talked about her life and problems without pause for the entire hour we were out (she was a 'daddy’s girl' with an internship at his company. Her bills were paid by her father, and she had no real problems beyond not getting enough spending money from her dad to buy her a Cartier bracelet). I decided not to text her after the date. Three days later, she texted me saying I was a sexist piece of shit for not continuing the conversation."
—u/maejaws
16.
"I had a guy say that the #MeToo movement wasn’t real, and he didn’t believe women were actually harassed and assaulted as often as people claim. He said he used to be motivated to support women, but he’s never 'heard locker room' talk, so he doesn’t think it’s a real thing. He said women are missing out on a lot of really great guys because they’re so 'over-sensitive' and worried about assault, a thing that almost never happens. He also said that lesbians make him mad because women trust them more, and they’re 'able to have sex on the first date.'"
—sarahshorthealth
NBC
17.
"I went on a date with a man who I met through a dating app. I quickly found out that he lied about his age — he was actually 10 years older than me, and he was recently divorced. He then took me to a gentleman’s club 30 minutes away. He kept saying, 'You’re like a sister [to me]' on the way there while stroking my leg because of how 'awesome I was' to agree to go see strippers with him. After the show, he drove us back drunk and speeding in his convertible. He was messaging other women on the dating app at the same time. He ended the night by saying, 'So I’ll be hearing from you again? Because I’m such a cool guy, and dates with me are the best.'"
—u/[deleted]
18.
"A guy picked me up on his motorcycle to take me back to his place. He pulled up to a shed by the house so I could get off, and he could store the bike, right? Wrong. The shed was his room (this could already be a horror story, but we’re talking worst date — not near-death experience). He invited me in where there was only one place to sit: a recliner, which he sat in. The only other place to sit was his lap, which he alerted me to. I chose a crate instead. He shared his airplane bottle of mouthwash-flavored vodka with me and, within maybe 15 minutes, said I looked like I wanted him to kiss me."
"What I wanted was to pee, so he took me to the house on the property (which was his mom’s). She was watching TV on the couch, and when I came out of the bathroom, he ushered me from the couch to sit and chat with his mom.Shortly after that, I used our initial agreement to request a ride back home. The next day, I texted something about feeling we were incompatible and wishing him well. He said, 'Your loss.'"—u/jay8996
19.
"First, he told me he was going to take me somewhere 'really nice,' which ended up being Coney Island in Detroit. It's a good first date spot, but not 'really nice.' He showed up wearing an open button-up at least two sizes too big over a t-shirt that said, 'Where the chicks at?' His opening conversation was about how hungover he was. When we went to Coney Island, he was making comments like, 'I'm not wearing a fucking mask' and completely ignored the 'masks required when not at the table' sign and walked to a table."
"Throughout the date, he just kept making horrible comments. At one point, he told me the city we were in, in the Detroit suburb, went to shit while he was gone for his military service. I immediately knew what he was getting at and asked how it got worse. He said, 'Drugs and gangs.' The most 'enjoyable' part of the date was when I responded, 'I don't know what you mean. Can you explain?' while I watched him flounder for a response.That's when I went into the bathroom to call someone to bail me out. I happened to get a phone call from my ex, so I begged him to call me in 10 minutes, faking an emergency with the kids. Luckily, by the time he called me, I had already extracted myself.When the bill came, I insisted on paying for my own food. He got super upset and literally argued with me. I wasn't going to let this guy have anything he thought he could hold over me. After he reluctantly let me pay for my own food, he stood up and practically yelled that he needed a cigarette. We went outside, and he proceeded to tell me that he was going to get trashed by his boss and coworkers.I thanked him for the date, practically ran for my car, and blocked him. My ex called me to rescue me finally, and he and his wife laughed their ass off at me as I described this horrible date in much better and clearer detail."—u/DuchessStoHelit
Netflix
20.
"While in line at Starbucks, he blurted out that he may or may not be the father of a newborn baby boy. Then he told me in great detail about a disgusting rash on his penis. That was enough for me."
—meganhorswoodm
21.
"We ran into someone he knew on the walk to the restaurant and he talked to her for five minutes without introducing us. He announced to everyone around us that we were on a first date, and he was trying to impress me. He left me alone at the table four times to smoke, then chided me for reading my phone when he got back from one such smoke break. He insisted I eat food I didn't want to eat. And then, during the get-to-know-you chit-chat, he made a huge show of being horrified by my brother's death. Five minutes later he asked if I had any siblings — I said no."
—annab4fef789d4
22.
"My blind date showed up an hour and a half late on a Vespa, so we missed our dinner reservation and ate at McDonald's instead. After that, we went to a weird bar in Brooklyn where I paid for his three strangely expensive drinks and a plate of chicken wings and watched him hit on every girl in the place. When he asked if I wanted to have sex in a bathroom stall, I took a cab home. That was a date from hell."
—NYCGirl2014
Netflix
23.
"This guy thought I was really nice and smart. I actually had fun until he told me I couldn't go on 'dressing like this.' I needed to wear 'more feminine clothes' or else I wouldn't be seen as attractive (let alone be loved). But we'd still end up in bed together, so he'd keep in contact. Spoiler alert: we did NOT keep in contact and sleep together."
—u/Joubachi
24.
"I was joking around that I was short (I'm 5'2"), and then he started to argue with me that I wasn't, as we got out of the car (he's over 6 feet tall). He grabbed me, picked me up, slammed me on the ground, and held me down until I said I wasn't short. I was so flabbergasted that I was speechless for several seconds. It was my first ever date (I was 16 at the time), and we had ridden in his car, so I wasn't entirely sure what to do. We went into a Chick-fil-A, and after we sat down, he started talking about how he could force me to feel specific emotions using his mind and wouldn't shut up about the old crush he had on a girl who used to be my friend."
"I rushed everything so he would take me home. On the way home, he took a weird turn down a road that led to a dark spot covered by a bridge. I tried to discreetly open the car door, but found out it had child locks on, so I was stuck. He started to take his seat belt off and lean over. Thankfully, a car showed up behind us, and he started grumbling about it. He started the car back up and finally took me home. The very next day, I went to school and warned my friends (especially my ex-friend), and I made sure never to see him again.This bad date confused me about how dates should go, but I knew it wasn't supposed to be like that. I didn't date again until I was 20, and thankfully, I've got this guy for 15 years now, and we are both short, lol."—u/Glitchykins8
25.
"I went on a double date with my friend, his fiancé, and his fiancé’s maid of honor. I was the best man, so they wanted us to get to know each other. She had absolutely zero interest in anything I said. She didn't want to talk to me about anything and wouldn’t even glance in my direction the whole night. So, things were a little awkward. The wedding day came, and we had to walk down the aisle together, which was awkward. The bridesmaids and the groomsmen wanted to dance side by side, one couple at a time, when introduced at the reception. She didn’t even dance down through the reception hall to the table. I looked like an idiot dancing into the reception while she just casually strolled with an annoyed look. Then she left the reception an hour later to go home...she was a lot of fun."
—u/Yowz3rs87
NBC
26.
"This happened to my friend. She went on a date with a guy, and he was interested in her, but she wasn't so interested in him. She politely told him 'no' about going on a second date, then woke up the next morning with a Venmo request from the guy for the cost of her drink. Her Venmo was private, and he had to look up her last name since they met via a dating app."
—skipnees
27.
"For a second date, I went to a fairly nice restaurant with this guy from a neighboring college town. It was cute until he started asking me to let him stay the night, explaining how he was a super-awesome cuddler. He also told me that if I needed help bathing myself, he wouldn't mind staying and helping me. The entire ride back to my apartment was basically him making a case as to why I should let him see me naked. While sitting in his passenger seat, I sent a text to my friend, which said something along the lines of, 'HELP! THIS DUDE IS CREEPING ME OUT! Make an excuse and call me ASAP!' My friend called and made up some excuse about her fighting with her roommate. He saw the text in the reflection of the window and then not-so-nicely asked me to get out of his car."
—tarrahf
28.
"I'm a Gen Xer, and the closest thing to 'online dating' I had in the late-'90s was the wonderful world of AOL. I’d met this guy in a locally based chatroom, and we hit it off. We exchanged pictures, and he was strikingly handsome. I (21F at the time) didn’t have a lot of dating experience, but he was a few years older than me and very patient. This endeared me to him more, and we went on our first date after about six weeks of regular online chats. We met at a trendy 'see and be seen' sushi restaurant in the heart of the city. He said he would meet me at the bar with a single orchid because it was my favorite flower. I come sweeping into the restaurant, heart all aflutter, and see this grey-haired man in a three-piece suit holding an orchid at the bar. He recognized me from MY pictures, and while he seemed familiar, he WAS NOT the same person in the pictures I’d received."
"I walked up to him and he blurted out, 'Please don’t be cross with me. I sent my son’s pictures. Otherwise, I knew you wouldn’t have anything to do with me.'I smacked him in the face with the orchid and told him I’d rather date a significantly older man than date a liar. I’m bawling my eyes out as I storm back out of this bougie restaurant with everyone’s eyes on me. I’m just thankful this took place long before camera phones. Never heard from that guy again."—Anonymous
HBO
29.
"I coincidentally went on a date with a woman who worked in the same field as me. She knew of my boss and went on and on about how hot she was. I didn't have the heart to tell her that I worked for my mom's company, meaning my date was actually talking about how hot my MOM was for the entire date."
—juliam4fae46aee
30.
"When I was 28, I worked in an office building and met an older guy in his fifties. We chatted from time to time during the elevator rides and in the cafeteria, but the way we talked made me think the friendship was more of a mentoring and small-talk deal. We discussed work, current events, and occasionally our families. He said he was happily married, and I told him about my pending divorce. This went on for a couple of months. One Friday evening, as we were leaving work, I agreed to get drinks with him. We made more small talk until I was close to finishing my drink. At that point, after telling me how much I reminded him of his daughter, he proposed we have an affair. He said we could meet somewhere and have fun, then go our separate ways. Then he leaned in, took a sip of his drink, and said, 'It could be just like 'Me and Mrs. Jones.' as though this were the clincher that would win me over. I asked for the check and left."
—cattgirl813
Netflix
31.
"I matched with a guy who lived four hours away, so we agreed to meet halfway, have a date, stay in that town overnight, then head home the next day. Now I’m very, very honest with my online pics and info. As soon as I stepped out of my car, he looked me up and down, frowned, and quietly said, 'Noooo.' The dude was far from an oil painting himself. We talked awkwardly for a bit and decided to get some food. It turned out to be a pretty dead town, and there was only a Subway open. So we ate at Subway. He had about as much personality as a wet sock. Then he asked if we could go look in some 'geeky' store, so we went. He then proceeded to flirt with a girl working there and told me how hot she was."
"Then we went to see a movie to kill time at a tiny cinema. After that, he told me, 'I’m sorry, I’ve got to go. I have to mow my lawn tomorrow.' I couldn’t even be bothered staying and drove an hour to my friend’s house overnight. He was a huge jerk, and I regret making the effort."—u/magical_bunny
32.
"This isn't my story, but it put me off ever using a dating app. My friend signed up for several apps, and she was ready to get back into dating after a divorce and raising four kids. She went out for drinks with a guy and realized he was the divorced father of her daughter's best friend. They had a good time, so they decided to continue the date by going to dinner. He asked if she would mind if he stopped and fed his dog. She went to his apartment with him. She asked to use the loo, and when she walked into the living room afterward, he was standing there buck-naked with an erection! She ran out of there and went home and deleted all of her dating apps."
—Anonymous
NBC
33.
"I went on a first (and last) evening date years ago. I wore a long black summer dress, and as he and I walked along the Seaport District in Boston, the sun had set. The sky became dark, and the street lights were spaced apart. As we walked through a dark little stretch, he casually said that if he pushed me into the water, no one would notice. When he asked to see me again, there was no second-guessing that hard 'no.'"
—artisticpizza47
34.
"I got set up on a blind date by a classmate. There was zero chemistry, and the guy barely spoke to me when I tried to ask questions/get a convo going. We finally left the coffee shop we were at and walked through a back alley to get to the parking lot. He turns to me and says, 'I'm not gonna call you. We don't have anything in common. [Our classmate] said you were cute, but...' and he left me standing in the dark alley alone."
—lamusica83
35.
And finally, "This date explicitly told me after I ordered my first drink that he wouldn't pay for my drinks unless I went home and slept with him after. I didn't drink any of my drink, immediately went to the bathroom, and I had to pass him on the way out, so I went up to him and told him I was leaving. He then proceeded to try to walk me to my car..."
—u/eltas13
HBO
Note: Some submissions have been edited for length and/or clarity.
Have *you* ever been on a truly horrendous date? Share your story with us in the comments below (or in this Google Form if you want to remain anonymous). The best submissions will be featured in a BuzzFeed Community post!