Windows 11 upgrade failed? These are my 4 most powerful troubleshooting secrets | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
Windows 10
Windows 11 upgrade failed? These are my 4 most powerful troubleshooting secrets
If you've encountered a problem with a Windows upgrade, you know how maddeningly unhelpful Windows error messages can be. These are my favorite troubleshooting tricks.
Written by
Ed Bott, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 12:00 a.m. PT
SvetaZi/iStock/Getty Images PlusFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.When Windows decides that it isn't interested in completing an upgrade, it can be maddeningly unhelpful, spitting out error codes and cryptic messages that can leave even experts scratching their heads.Also: How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for freeThat can happen with a routine Windows 11 feature update, but it's especially frustrating when you're trying to install Windows 11 on an older PC before Windows 10 support ends.Over the years, I've had a lot of practice with this sort of thing, including hundreds of email sessions with readers trying to figure out why their upgrade isn't working. The troubleshooting process can sometimes be tedious, but there's usually an answer.1. Check for missing updates, especially firmwareI've heard from several readers who encountered issues with upgrading that were resolved after they tracked down some crucial driver and firmware/BIOS updates.Also: Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anywayThat's an especially useful piece of advice if you're working with an older PC. Those firmware and BIOS updates can often resolve all sorts of problems -- big and small.2. Look up known issuesIt's always a good idea to do this before you start the upgrade. But if you forgot that step, the second-best time is when you run into an error message while upgrading.Microsoft keeps a list of known issues for each major update at its Windows release information dashboard. Expand each entry on the left to see the list of known and resolved issues for supported releases of Windows.Also: Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to actKnown issues are most likely to appear in the first few months after the release of a new feature update. Incompatibilities with software and hardware can lead Microsoft to impose temporary compatibility blocks (known as "safeguard holds") for systems with those particular configurations.You might be able to bypass one of these blocks by updating or uninstalling an incompatible program, or you might want to defer that update until the blocking issue is resolved. You'll find an excellent discussion of the issues involved with safeguard holds on this page. Although it's nominally about one specific safeguard hold, the four alternatives it describes are universal.3. Try again!This is dangerously close to "Have you tried rebooting?" But this trick has worked so many times that it can't be ignored.First, check Windows Update for your currently installed version of Windows. If any updates are pending, install them and restart before continuing.Also: How to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026: Two waysNext, temporarily uninstall any unneeded software that could be getting in the way. Pay special attention to low-level system tools such as antivirus software, disk management tools, and so on. In the case of antivirus software, you might need to download a tool from the developer to completely remove the program.Disconnect all non-essential peripheral devices, especially external hard drives and USB flash drives that you're not using to run Setup.After doing all that, restart your PC and try to upgrade again. On the opening page, click "Change how Setup downloads updates,' then click "Not right now."
Downloading updates during Setup can cause some upgrades to fail. After turning off this option, try running Setup again. Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETIf that doesn't get things moving, it's time to break out the big guns.4. Use the SetupDiag tool to track down an errorWindows creates detailed log files each time it attempts an upgrade. Those logs aren't designed to be decoded by mere mortals, which is why Microsoft created a diagnostic utility to do that job for you.SetupDiag locates and inspects those log files, then uses a set of rules to create a readable report flagging the most likely cause of the failure. You'll need to run a few commands from a terminal window to get that report, but the process isn't difficult and the results are worth the effort. Here's how to use it.Download the program from here: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=870142.Create a folder called C:\SetupDiag and copy the SetupDiag.exe program you just downloaded to that folder.Next, open an elevated command prompt window. Click Start, type cmd, and then click Run As Administrator. In that command prompt window, type cd c:\setupdiag and press Enter to switch to the folder you just createdRun the command SetupDiag.exe /Output:C:\SetupDiag\Results.log. The output of that command is a plain text file that is saved in the same folder as the program file. As its final step, the app opens the results file in Notepad, allowing you to examine its output and figure out what to do next.Don't expect plain-English advice, but the results, especially any error codes, should be useful input for any searches to identify others who've had the same issue.Here's a sample from a SetupDiag log a reader recently sent me.
The SetupDiag log sifts through a huge volume of log files and produces this report that identifies the most likely cause of the failure. Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETThe last item on that page typically identifies the error. In this case, it's an "abrupt down-level failure," which means something went wrong in the source OS, before Setup even got to the target OS. The error code, 0xC1900209, is listed in this detailed support document: "The user has chosen to cancel because the system does not pass the compat scan to install the update."The fix was to tell Setup not to download updates and drivers; after making that change, the upgrade completed without error. Once Windows 11 was installed, the required updates installed without issue.You'll find full instructions for using SetupDiag on this page.Note: This article was originally published in 2020 and covered Windows 10 upgrade issues. It was completely rewritten to cover Windows 11 upgrade scenarios and republished in September 2025.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This free tool installs Windows 11 on unsupported PCs - without any bloatware
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use