General overview of taxpayer reliance on guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin and FAQs | Internal Revenue Service
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
()
or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
English
Español中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
Search
Sign in
Menu
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Main navigation
File
Overview
INFORMATION FOR…
Individuals
Business and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International filers
Retirement
Governments and tax-exempt bonds
Indian Tribal Governments
FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS
How to file
When to file
Where to file
Update your information
POPULAR
Tax record (transcript)
Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)
Amend return
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN)
File your taxes for free
Pay
Overview
PAY BY
Bank Account (Direct Pay)
Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
POPULAR
Your Online Account
Tax Withholding Estimator
Estimated Taxes
Penalties
Refunds
Overview
Where’s My Refund?
Direct deposit
Where’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
Overview
INFORMATION FOR...
Individuals
For you and your family
Businesses & Self-Employed
Standard mileage and other information
POPULAR
Earned Income Credit (EITC)
Child Tax Credit
Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits
Standard Deduction
Retirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
Overview
POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS
Form 1040
Individual Income Tax Return
Form 1040 Instructions
Instructions for Form 1040
Form W-9
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification
Form 4506-T
Request for Transcript of Tax Return
Form W-4
Employee's Withholding Certificate
Form 941
Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return
Form W-2
Wage and Tax Statement
Form 9465
Installment Agreement Request
POPULAR FOR TAX PROS
Form 1040-X
Amended Individual Income Tax Return
Form 2848
Power of Attorney
Form W-7
Apply for an ITIN
Circular 230
Regulations Governing Practice before the IRS
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
File
OverviewINFORMATION FOR…IndividualsBusiness and self-employedCharities and nonprofitsInternational filersRetirementGovernments and tax-exempt bondsIndian Tribal GovernmentsFILING FOR INDIVIDUALSHow to fileWhen to fileWhere to fileUpdate your informationPOPULARTax record (transcript)Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)Amend returnIdentity Protection PIN (IP PIN)File your taxes for free
Pay
OverviewPAY BYBank Account (Direct Pay)Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)POPULARYour Online AccountTax Withholding EstimatorEstimated TaxesPenalties
Refunds
OverviewWhere’s My Refund?Direct depositWhere’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
OverviewINFORMATION FOR...IndividualsBusinesses & Self-EmployedPOPULAREarned Income Credit (EITC)Child Tax CreditClean Energy and Vehicle CreditsStandard DeductionRetirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
OverviewPOPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONSForm 1040Form 1040 InstructionsForm W-9Form 4506-TForm W-4Form 941Form W-2Form 9465POPULAR FOR TAX PROSForm 1040-XForm 2848Form W-7Circular 230
Main navigation
File
Pay
Refunds
Credits & Deductions
Forms & Instructions
Info Menu Mobile
Charities & Nonprofits
Help
News
Tax Pros
HomeNewsFact sheetsFact sheets for frequently asked questions
General overview of taxpayer reliance on guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin and FAQs
General overview of taxpayer reliance on guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin and FAQs
EnglishEspañol中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
More In News
Topics in the news
News releases
Multimedia center
Tax relief in disaster situations
One Big Beautiful Bill Act
Inflation Reduction Act
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
Taxpayer First Act
Tax scams and consumer alerts
The tax gap
Fact sheets
Fact sheets for frequently asked questions
IRS Tax Tips
e-News subscriptions
IRS guidance
Media contacts
IRS statements and announcements
The purpose of this reliance page is to confirm/explain that FAQs generally cannot be relied upon and describe authority that can be relied upon.
Guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin
The Internal Revenue Bulletin (Bulletin) is the authoritative instrument of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for announcing official rulings and procedures of the Internal Revenue Service and for publishing treasury decisions, executive orders, tax conventions, legislation, court decisions, and other items of general interest.
It is the policy of the Service to publish in the Bulletin all substantive rulings necessary to promote a uniform application of the tax laws, including all rulings that supersede, revoke, modify, or amend any of those previously published in the Bulletin. All published rulings apply retroactively unless otherwise indicated. Procedures relating solely to matters of internal management are not published; however, statements of internal practices and procedures that affect the rights and duties of taxpayers are published.
Revenue rulings represent the conclusions of the Service on the application of the law to the pivotal facts stated in the revenue ruling. In those based on positions taken in rulings to taxpayers or technical advice to Service field offices, identifying details and information of a confidential nature are deleted to prevent unwarranted invasions of privacy and to comply with statutory requirements.
Rulings and procedures reported in the Bulletin do not have the force and effect of Treasury Department regulations, but they may be used as precedents. Rulings not published in the Bulletin will not be relied on, used, or cited as precedents by Service personnel in the disposition of other cases. In applying published rulings and procedures, the effect of subsequent legislation, regulations, court decisions, rulings, and procedures must be considered, and Service personnel and others concerned are cautioned against reaching the same conclusions in other cases unless the facts and circumstances are substantially the same.
FAQs
FAQs are a valuable alternative to guidance published in the Bulletin because they allow the IRS to more quickly communicate information to the public on topics of frequent inquiry and general applicability. FAQs typically provide responses to general inquiries rather than applying the law to taxpayer-specific facts and may not reflect various special rules or exceptions that could apply in any particular case. FAQs that have not been published in the Bulletin will not be relied on, used, or cited as precedents by Service personnel in the disposition of cases. Similarly, if an FAQ turns out to be an inaccurate statement of the law as applied to a particular taxpayer’s case, the law will control the taxpayer’s tax liability. Only guidance that is published in the Bulletin has precedential value.
Notwithstanding the non-precedential nature of FAQs, a taxpayer’s reasonable reliance on an FAQ (even one that is subsequently updated or modified) is relevant and will be considered in determining whether certain penalties apply. Taxpayers who show that they relied in good faith on an FAQ and that their reliance was reasonable based on all the facts and circumstances will not be subject to a penalty that provides a reasonable cause standard for relief, including a negligence penalty or other accuracy-related penalty, to the extent that reliance results in an underpayment of tax. See Treas. Reg. § 1.6664-4(b) for more information. In addition, FAQs that are published in a Fact Sheet that is linked to an IRS news release are considered authority for purposes of the exception to accuracy-related penalties that applies when there is substantial authority for the treatment of an item on a return.  See Treas. Reg. § 1.6662-4(d) for more information.
Informal guidance (forms, instructions, publications, IRS.gov webpages)
Informal guidance like forms, instructions, publications and IRS.gov webpages is another valuable alternative to guidance published in the Bulletin. This informal guidance allows the IRS to more quickly provide administrative, educational, and procedural information to taxpayers needing information quickly, such as how and where to file returns, what to do if financial records are lost in a major disaster and other information about forms and instructions. Similar to FAQs, informal guidance does not apply the law to taxpayer-specific facts and may not reflect various special rules or exceptions that could apply in any particular case. Informal guidance has not been published in the Bulletin and will not be relied on, used, or cited as precedents by Service personnel in the disposition of cases. If information included in informal guidance turns out to be an inaccurate statement of the law as applied to a particular taxpayer's case, the law will control the taxpayer's tax liability. Only guidance that is published in the Bulletin has precedential value.
Notwithstanding the non-precedential nature of informal guidance like forms instructions, publications and IRS.gov webpages, a taxpayer's reasonable reliance on that informal guidance (even if the informal guidance is subsequently updated or modified) is relevant and will be considered in determining whether certain penalties apply. Taxpayers who show that they relied in good faith on informal guidance and that their reliance was reasonable based on all the facts and circumstances will not be subject to a penalty that provides a reasonable cause standard for relief, including a negligence penalty or other accuracy-related penalty, to the extent that reliance results in an underpayment of tax. See Treas. Reg. § 1.6664-4(b) for more information.
IRS-FAQ
Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 29-May-2025
ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedinPrint
Footer Navigation
Our Agency
About IRS
Careers
Operations and Budget
Tax Statistics
Help
Find a Local Office
Know Your Rights
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
Taxpayer Advocate Service
Independent Office of Appeals
Civil Rights
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
Reliance on Guidance
Resolve an Issue
IRS Notices and Letters
Identity Theft
Tax scams
Tax Fraud
Criminal Investigation
Whistleblower Office
Languages
Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Pусский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
English
Other Languages
Related Sites
U.S. Treasury
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
USA.gov
USAspending.gov
Vote.gov
Subfooter
Privacy Policy
Accessibility