Man arrested in drive-by shooting at Sacramento ABC station : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Man arrested in drive-by shooting at Sacramento ABC station At least three bullets were fired into the station, according to the Sacramento Police Department. Authorities are investigating a possible motive.
National
Man arrested after drive-by shooting at ABC TV station in Sacramento
Updated September 20, 20258:48 PM ET
Originally published September 20, 20257:19 PM ET
By
Chandelis Duster
ABC10 TV station in Sacramento, Calif., an ABC affiliate owned by TEGNA.
Screenshot/Google Earth
hide caption
toggle caption
Screenshot/Google Earth
A man has been arrested after a drive-by shooting into an ABC affiliate TV station in Sacramento, according to police. Anibal Hernandezsantana, 64 years old, was arrested early Saturday and charged with felonies that include shooting into an occupied building, assault with a deadly weapon and negligent discharge of a firearm, the Sacramento Police Department told NPR in a statement. He was booked into the Sacramento County Main Jail on Saturday and released in the afternoon after posting a $200,000 bail, said Sacramento County Sheriff's Office spokesperson Sgt. Amar Gandhi. On Friday, around 1:30 p.m. local time, police responded to reports of shots fired in the 400 block of Broadway, where the ABC10 TV station is located. At least three bullets were fired into a window of the TV station's lobby, according to police. After the shots were fired, the vehicle drove off. The building was occupied at the time of the shooting and no one was injured, police also said. ABC10 is an affiliate of ABC and owned by TEGNA.
Sponsor Message
National
What FCC chair's threats against ABC could mean for other media companies
The shooting occurred a day after protesters demonstrated outside of the station over Jimmy Kimmel's show being suspended indefinitely by ABC. It is unclear whether there's any connection between the shooting and the show's suspension or the protest, and police told NPR the motive is under investigation. TEGNA is grateful their employees were unharmed and are safe, a spokesperson for the company told NPR on Saturday. The company is also maintaining increased security at ABC10, the spokesperson said. "We're aware of the arrest connected to the shots fired into the KXTV building yesterday and continue to cooperate with the police," the spokesperson said. "Our priority is to ensure our employees' safety and well-being as they continue to carry out our mission to serve our community with critical local news and information." Journalists and organizations condemned the shooting, including the National Association of Black Journalists Sacramento chapter, which called the shooting "heartbreaking and unacceptable." "As fellow journalists, the members of the Sacramento Chapter of the National Association of Black Journalists want to be clear: violence against members of the media is violence against our entire community," the organization said in a statement on social media. "Our hearts are with those impacted, and we call on the entire community to join us in lifting up, supporting, and protecting the journalists who serve you every single day."
Sponsor Message
Hernandezsantana is scheduled to appear in court on Tuesday, Sept. 23 at 3 p.m. local time. It is unclear whether he has obtained legal counsel at this time.
media
shooting
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor