Find My Parking Cops uses data scraped from City website to track parking fines in real time — entire website dedicated to helping San Francisco motorists avoid parking tickets goes live | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Cyber Security
Bizarre cyberattack blamed on Russia and China-linked hackers permanently breaks dozens of speed cameras in the Netherlands
Cyber Security
Recertified HDD vendor goHardDrive caught leaking thousands of customer details
Cyber Security
Security researcher driven by free nuggets unearths McDonald's security flaw
microSD Cards
Massive MicroSD card testing database exposes fakes, charts performance and endurance
Tech Industry
German motorists facing ‘plague’ of electric car charger cable thefts – 70 charging points a day being gutted to sell for copper scrap
Cyber Security
Intel Outside: Researcher downloaded data on all 270,000 Intel employees from an internal business card website
Cyber Security
Security vulnerability on U.S. trains that let anyone activate the brakes on the rear car was known for 13 years — operators refused to fix the issue until now
HDDs
Seagate spins up a raid on a counterfeit hard drive workshop — authorities read criminals' writes while they spill the beans
Manufacturing
HP unveils 'CarFax for PCs' that could make buying older laptops more viable
Cyber Security
A popular VPN extension for Google Chrome has been screenshotting every page users visit
Cyber Security
Burger King hacked, attackers 'impressed by the commitment to terrible security practices'
Tech Industry
The White House eyes chip tracking to curb AI hardware smuggling to China amid enforcement gaps
Cyber Security
Bitcoin Depot tells 27,000 crypto ATM customers that it leaked their personal information, but waited a year to disclose due to an ongoing investigation
Handheld Gaming
Nintendo Switch pirates sunk by the FBI as they seize the site for hosting pirated games
Search Engines
AI-driven search engine running inside a laundry room aims to rival Google, and you can try it yourself
Tech Industry
Cybersecurity
Find My Parking Cops uses data scraped from City website to track parking fines in real time — entire website dedicated to helping San Francisco motorists avoid parking tickets goes live
News
By
Jowi Morales
published
24 September 2025
How many tickets can a parking cop issue in a day?
Comments (4)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)
A software engineer named Riley Walz has built a website that scrapes the data from the City of San Francisco website, allowing him to track issued parking tickets in real-time and the location where the officers wrote them. The information is readily available on the Find My Parking Cops web app, and uses an interface similar to Apple’s Find My app, making it quick and easy to use.Overlaid on a top-down view of San Francisco, you get a list of active officers at the moment, plus a leaderboard showing the total value of the tickets a particular officer has issued for the current week. Walz shared his creation on X — A few hours later, the City took down the website date, briefly rendering his creation useless. Nevertheless, he was able to create a workaround, restoring the functionality of the tracking site, at least for now.According to Walz, he was inspired to create the page after his roommate received a parking ticket. The website where you pay the penalty also shows a full copy of the citation, as long as you have its number. When you input the correct information, you’ll see all the details related to the parking offence, including the make, color, and license plate of the offending vehicle, the reason for the ticket, and the issuing officer’s initials.
You may like
Bizarre cyberattack blamed on Russia and China-linked hackers permanently breaks dozens of speed cameras in the Netherlands
Recertified HDD vendor goHardDrive caught leaking thousands of customer details
Security researcher driven by free nuggets unearths McDonald's security flaw
One other roadblock that he encountered was the ticket number — at the moment, the system lists nearly a billion tickets, but he thinks that this is nowhere near the real number of parking violations in San Francisco. When he added one to the ticket that his friend had, the San Francisco website returned an error. But after some more experimentation and digging around, he discovered the tickets were numbered by increments of 11, except for when the last digit is 6, by which you add 4 to get the next ticket number. This pattern allowed him to predict the next parking citation to be issued, making for easier tracking. He was also able to figure out the claim ID, allowing him to pull out all the details of the ticket.Armed with this information, he created a scraper that copied and stored all the parking tickets as soon as they were created. They then used a borrowed Apple Maps API key to put the data on a map, allowing anyone to see the locations, the number of tickets, as well as the total fines a particular parking cop has issued during their shift. Naturally, this information could be used to avoid parking fines, a benefit Walz himself touts, with users able to see a rough spread of where parking cops might be issuing tickets at any given time.While not exactly illegal, this shows how easy it can be to gather data from the internet if you know what you’re doing. However, it can also raise some privacy issues, especially since the parking tickets often have personal data on them. The City of San Francisco definitely needs to secure its parking ticket system, but it also needs to ensure that citizens can retain easy access to the payment portal to settle their violations. In the meantime, this map is available for anyone to see, that is, until San Francisco fixes their system and makes it just a little bit more secure.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Privacy
See all comments (4)
Jowi MoralesSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterJowi Morales is a tech enthusiast with years of experience working in the industry. He’s been writing with several tech publications since 2021, where he’s been interested in tech hardware and consumer electronics.
Read more
Bizarre cyberattack blamed on Russia and China-linked hackers permanently breaks dozens of speed cameras in the Netherlands
Recertified HDD vendor goHardDrive caught leaking thousands of customer details
Security researcher driven by free nuggets unearths McDonald's security flaw
Massive MicroSD card testing database exposes fakes, charts performance and endurance
German motorists facing ‘plague’ of electric car charger cable thefts – 70 charging points a day being gutted to sell for copper scrap
Intel Outside: Researcher downloaded data on all 270,000 Intel employees from an internal business card website
Latest in Cybersecurity
Twitch streamer raising money for cancer treatment has funds stolen by malware-ridden Steam game
Hackers attack Europe’s automatic flight check-in systems
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks
Pixie Dust wireless exploit lingers 11 years after initial disclosure
Shai-Hulud malware campaign dubbed 'the largest and most dangerous npm supply-chain compromise in history'
Modern memory is still vulnerable to Rowhammer vulnerabilities
Latest in News
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD
4 Comments
Comment from the forums
Gururu
I've received my fair share of tickets in San Francisco and still have recurring dream of leaving my car in blocks due for street cleaning. However, having decades of parking experience and having witnessed the sheer lunacy of some people parking illegally, I cannot condone a tool that helps them dodge tickets.
Reply
Hooda Thunkett
It looks like the site is already down due to updates on the City of San Francisco's end.
Reply
edzieba
This is entirely down to:
But after some more experimentation and digging around, he discovered the tickets were numbered by increments of 11, except for when the last digit is 6, by which you add 4 to get the next ticket number.
By using a randomised (or at least pseudorandom and hashed) ticket number, you can make details trivially available without requiring authentication just using the ticket number, as is currently the case. Without it -as with the trivial incrementing scheme here - you effectively publicly expose all data.
Fix the lazy implementation of ticket number generation, and this no longer becomes possible without repeatedly polling every one of the billion possible ticket numbers repeatedly - which is a blockable as you would any other DDOS.
Reply
Sam Hobbs
Imagine what happens when the city is unable to upload the information immediately, or if they intentionally do not. The city could intentionally delay providing the data online and have officers staged to give tickets. That would be a highly effective way to develop mistrust for the website.
Reply
View All 4 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.