Hetal Vasavada, Author at Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Hetal Vasavada
San Francisco, CA
School: University of the Sciences and Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine
Expertise: Baking; Recipe Development; Vegan/Vegetarian; Gardening; Travel
Follow:
Hetal Vasavada
12 years of experience as a recipe developer
Recipes have appeared in Food & Wine, the New York Times, Bon Appetit, the Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post
Creator of Milk & Cardamom, a baking blog with over 125K followers on Instagram
Experience
Hetal is a cookbook author, recipe developer and food influencer. She has written two cookbooks, Milk & Cardamom and Desi Bakes, both of which highlight Indian-inspired desserts that blend traditional South Asian flavors with modern baking techniques. She is a former contestant on MasterChef USA and has worked extensively in the food media space, contributing recipes and culinary content to brands like Bon Appetit, Food & Wine and The Kitchn.
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Education
University of the Sciences (now Saint Joseph's University), bachelor's in biochemistry
Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine, master's in biomedical sciences
Taste of Home Editorial Policies
Taste of Home, a Trusted Media Brand, has been a reliable source for recipes, cooking tips and entertaining advice for more than 30 years. Every month, our content inspires well over 20 million home cooks to get creative in the kitchen. Each one of our 40 thousand recipes has gone through a rigorous testing and approval process to ensure we’re sharing the very best. Every snack, ingredient and product we recommend is tested by our team of culinary experts and professional product testers—the best of the best earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval. Learn more about Taste of Home and our Test Kitchen and editorial teams.
Articles & Recipes
Hetal Vasavada’s Taco Bell Inspired Dense Bean Salad This salad is my love letter to Taco Bell! It has all the flavors of a taco or Crunchwrap filling, just without the tortilla and late-night drive-thru guilt. I mix black and pinto beans with crunchy lettuce, juicy tomatoes, creamy avocado, sour cream, onions and a whole lot of cheese. Then I add Taco Bell’s mild taco seasoning and sauce for that classic Taco Bell flavor. It’s high protein, high fiber and super filling. You can serve this with tortilla chips or eat it on it’s own! —Hetal Vasavada, San Francisco, California
Hetal Vasavada’s Ice Cream Cake Growing up, Carvel ice cream cake was the birthday centerpiece I looked forward to all year! As an adult, I keep the tradition alive by treating myself to a mini version on Valentine’s Day and savoring it over a few days, one delicious slice at a time. This homemade cake captures all the joy of the original with layers of no-churn chocolate and vanilla ice cream, a generously thick band of chocolate crunchies, and those unmistakable blue whipped cream scallops topped with rainbow sprinkles. The clear vanilla extract in this recipe really gives you that nostalgic vanilla birthday cake flavor. It’s a playful dessert that feels celebratory and costs less than its store-bought counterpart. —Hetal Vasavada, San Francisco, California
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie This s’mores pie captures everything you love about the classic campfire treat in one slice. It starts with a buttery graham cracker crust filled with a silky chocolate custard made with hot cocoa mix for that nostalgic milk chocolate flavor. Feel free to use a store-bought graham cracker crust to save time! A little whipped cream is folded into the custard to keep it light and mousse-like, and it's all topped with a billowy toasted marshmallow meringue. The result is gooey, creamy and completely irresistible. —Hetal Vasavada, San Francisco, California
More Articles
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box