Engineering: Books and Journals | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Engineering
Discover Springer's journals and books in all areas of Engineering, serving researchers, professionals, lecturers and students. Our outstanding program reflects the diversity of topics in research, teaching and practice and focuses on the fields of mechanical and electrical engineering as well as interdisciplinary areas such as mechanics and biomedical engineering.
We offer basic knowledge for students as well as high-quality books and research literature for engineers, practitioners and researchers. Our publications include the prestigious journal Nonlinear Dynamics, the book series Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering and the Springer Handbook of Robotics.
Subdisciplines
Biomedical Engineering
Modern medicine relies on technology. As a field with high innovation potential, biotechnology and medical engineering is an important specialist discipline in science and industry.
We publish books and journals showcasing the cutting edge of medical technology dealing with the use of medical devices and instruments in prevention and rehabilitation. Our textbooks guide you through the complex facts and contexts of medical and biomedical technology. For doctoral theses and dissertations our reference works are essential sources of research.
Circuits & Systems
The books on these pages deal with the theoretical foundations of analog and digital circuit technology, systems theory and the methods of network and system analysis. Another focus is the practical development of electronic circuits for specific applications.
Our teaching materials use numerous examples and exercises to help students and researchers in the successful development of circuit engineering. In addition to introductory textbooks, we also offer specialized literature in fields such as microsystem technology, one of the key technologies of the 21st century.
Civil Engineering
Both civil engineers and architects will find the right specialist literature for theory and practice at Springer. The thematic range of our books and journals extends from civil engineering, structural engineering, structural design and geoengineering to facility management and construction law. Our publications include the encyclopedia Sustainable Built Environments, Springer Tracts in Civil Engineering and the journal Materials and Structures. Students can order all leading reference works with fundamental knowledge for entry into studies and preparation for examinations. Current research reports, hands-on professional books and journals on current trends in the industry are also available in our shop.
Communication Technology
Computational Intelligence & Complexity
Springer offers books and journals on computational intelligence and complexity, which look at the concepts and practical applications within the field.
Electronics & Electrical Engineering
Students and researchers will find books and journals here covering topics such as power systems, electrodynamics, photovoltaics, nano and microelectronics. We also publish invaluable handbooks on the theoretical and practical basics of electrical engineering and electronics.
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical engineering is one of the most important branches of industry with a central position on the world market. This development is also reflected in the increasing number of publications on the subject. With over 1,500 titles, Springer is one of the leading providers in this field. We offer textbooks which convey the basics of mathematics, technology and mechanics necessary for the subject and are an indispensable aid for first-year students. You will also find current research results and trends in the field of mechanical engineering.
Well-known publications include Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering, the Springer Handbook of Mechanical Engineering and Handbook of Satellite Applications.
Mechanics
Mechanics is one of the most innovative fields of engineering and a foundation subject for all engineering courses.
Springer textbooks are an excellent introduction to the topic: They provide basic knowledge of statics, strength theory and dynamics and explain the methodical approach in solving technical problems. We have a number of bestselling textbooks for students and we recommend our journals to any aspiring or established engineers who need to know the latest research in automotive, aerospace and other industries.
Robotics & Control
Robotics is one of the most promising technologies of the future. Robots have become indispensable in industrial production. Robots are also increasingly being used in private households. The trend towards automation is increasing worldwide. Our books and journals in this field are dedicated to robotics in research and practice. They introduce the basics of technology in the construction of robots, teach the successful programming of robot systems and explore the limits and possibilities of artificial intelligence. Our renowned publications include the journal Autonomous Robots, Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences and the Springer Handbook of Robotics. Another important part of our portfolio is measurement and control technology. Various methods for increasing process efficiency, product quality and safety are presented in our reference books and journals.
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Publish with us
Selecting the right publisher is one of the most important decisions an author will make. At Springer, we recognize that our authors are the heart of what we do and we are committed to provide the resources, support and advice you need to help you succeed.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature