How AI slop is clogging your brain : It's Been a Minute : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
How AI slop is clogging your brain : It's Been a Minute Bizarre videos, uncanny photos, and Luigi Mangoine's likeness on Shein...? AI slop is taking over the web. It's putting money in people's pockets, and driving them offline, too. This is AI + U. Each Monday this month, Brittany is exploring how you are already seeing the impacts of AI. Artificial Intelligence has become a constant in ways we can and can't see...and for the next few weeks we're zeroing in on how AI affects our daily lives.Brittany chats with Washington Post tech reporter Drew Harwell and freelance writer Emma Marris about the limits of AI creativity and what this 'slop' is doing to us on and offline.
It's Been a Minute
NPR
It's Been a Minute
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
How AI slop is clogging your brain
September 8, 20253:00 AM ET
By
Alexis Williams
Is AI killing the internet?
Listen
·
18:55
18:55
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5528762/nx-s1-mx-5705045" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Bizarre videos, uncanny photos, and Luigi Mangoine's likeness on Shein ... ? "AI slop" is taking over the web. It's putting money in people's pockets, and driving them offline, too. This is AI + U. Each Monday this month, host Brittany Luse explores how we're already seeing the impacts of AI. Artificial Intelligence has become a constant in ways we can and can't see … and for the next few weeks we're zeroing in on how AI affects our daily lives. Brittany chats with Washington Post tech reporter Drew Harwell and freelance environment writer Emma Marris about the limits of AI creativity and what this "slop" is doing to us on and offline.
Sponsor Message
Episode highlights The "AI slop" side hustle economy is booming  DREW: The people I talked to, these are people who are, you know, middle class who have kind of like side jobs or who are college students and saw this as like a thing they could do at night to make a couple bucks. And some of them were surprised at how much money they were making from this. The dependence on AI may keep us stuck in the past
Business
'AI slop' videos may be annoying, but they're racking up views — and ad money
EMMA: The other thing to keep in mind, too, is that these models are all trained on, you know, a bunch of stuff that came before. So they don't really have the ability to produce something genuinely new. Like, if you were trying to come up with like a new visual style or like a new literary form, it wouldn't be able to do that on its own because all it can do is sort of remix what it's already been fed. So I mean, my concern is that in creative fields or even product design, if people lean too heavily on these tools, then we will sort of see culture spin its wheels and not really come up with really new stuff, just kind of remixing. We don't have a new vision for the future. We're just going to talk about the past.
Sponsor Message
"AI slop" may have bigger implications than we realize EMMA: There's been some interesting studies on how AI can be used and is already being used for like serious propaganda efforts, you know, like state sponsored stuff. And I've heard the term "AI pasta" thrown around. So there's this Internet idea of "copypasta" where you just cut and paste some text and you repost it so many times that eventually it just kind of oozes into people's consciousness. But with AI, you can rephrase it a whole bunch of different ways or make slightly different versions of the same image or the same video. And as people see it more and more times, they'll just sort of eventually come to accept it as part of reality. So it can be a really effective way to convince people of stuff that's not true for bad actors.
Technology
This TikTok video is fake, but every word was taken from a real creator
DREW: You use it because … I'm a bald white guy, so I can say this … if I want to make all bald white guys look stupid or look like they all believe the same thing, or they all do the same thing that people find distasteful, I can just make the AI create a very realistic, lifelike video of them doing that. And apply that to whatever group you want to, right? And so, you know, in the past and current day, you'll watch videos that will upset you and you're like, is this real? Is this a joke? Is this a prank? Is this like somebody just being an influencer? And now you extract that to AI, where you don't even need a film crew, you don't even need an actor. You can just do that from your phone through an AI in a way that nobody would be able to tell. So I think that's yeah, the state propaganda point is a really good one because you can see how a bad actor with enough incentive, with enough time, with the initiative, can make people believe and mask something they may otherwise not believe. And when you have AI, it's like a force multiplier to the points you want to make. And you can use the AI to sort of put out those messages in that propaganda you agree with.
Sponsor Message
EMMA: I mean, it doesn't solve the problem of this, but you as an individual can always choose not to give your attention to this stuff. Like that's the point of my story, is that when the Internet gives you slop, you can decide to just spend less time on the Internet, you know? And there's something really freeing about just taking back some of your attention and time and just walking around, like, unmonetized. Like, it feels good to not be a profit center all day, every day.
Technology
Tennessee lawmakers move to regulate AI and deepfakes
This episode was produced by Alexis Williams. It was edited by Neena Pathak. Our Supervising Producer is Barton Girdwood. Our Executive Producer is Veralyn Williams. Our VP of Programming is Yolanda Sangweni.
AI
deepfake videos
gig economy
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor