Kiwix is the ultimate offline knowledge base for students
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Kiwix is the free, open-source tool every student needs
By
Sumukh Rao
Published 1 day ago
Sumukh has a knack for simplifying tech for the masses and helping consumers pick the right gadgets with his in-depth insights and reviews. He decided to hide his engineering degree in the closet to pursue his passion for writing. Over the past 7 years, he has written guides, reviews, and detailed opinions for notable publications like TechPP and XDA-Developers – and even donned the hat of a Lead Editor at Guiding Tech Media.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
I completed my Bachelor's degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering in 2020. The four-year course involved a lot of projects and assignments that required extensive research from various sources. Unfortunately, there was no ChatGPT or NotebookLM back then, so all the research had to be conducted manually. While I had no issues with that, the biggest bottleneck was my university's internet connection. I'm not sure whether it was the ISP or a poor Wi-Fi router at fault, but the internet speeds were downright terrible — slowing down everyone's work. If you're facing a similar situation at school or college, let me introduce you to Kiwix. Recently, when discovering productivity tools to recommend to students before they head back to school, I stumbled upon Kiwix — an offline knowledge base that lets you download entire webpages or archives to your local drive. Think of downloading the entire Wikipedia onto your computer to access ANY page you want at ANY time without an active internet connection. Sounds cool, right? Unfortunately, I had no clue about it when I was in school. But here's how you can use Kiwix to make your life a lot easier — irrespective of the domain you're studying in.
Available on multiple platforms
Install a local instance or self-host
Before we get to downloading and accessing the webpages of your choice offline, it's important to install and run the Kiwix server on your computer. There are two ways to go about this. You can either install the official Kiwix app on your Mac or Windows PC and then access websites offline. Or, you can host an instance of the Kiwix server on your local network so that it's accessible via a browser using any device connected to the same network. The latter can be facilitated by Docker. Depending on your use case, you can decide which installation method you want to use. If you only plan on accessing webpages and documents on a single device, a more traditional installation natively on a computer makes sense. Downloading and accessing webpages and databases is also easier on a native installation. That said, some users may want to access these databases from multiple devices, in which case, the self-hosting route makes a lot of sense. Once you have the name of the Docker image, simply use the Docker pull command in the Terminal. Note that you don't have to run the container yet.
Download any resource you want
Select fragments or entire databases
The way you access webpages will depend on the installation method you pick. If you decide to self-host Kiwix, you will have to download ZIM files from the Kiwix Library. These are essentially like ebooks that can be opened inside Kiwix. Head to the library and pick the websites you want to view and browse offline on your computer. For instance, you can download Wikipedia, the PHP manual, RagaGunglism, which is a classical music theory portal, Python documentation, or even a repository of TED talks. You can also find fragments of databases in the Kiwix Library if you don't want to download massive amounts of data. There's Wikipedia 100, which is a collection of the top 100 articles on Wikipedia. Then, there are curated collections of topics on Wikipedia, like Football, Music, American Geography, etc. You can search for specific websites or collections in multiple languages. Once you find the right resources, download the respective ZIM files to the /tmp/wiki folder on your computer's local storage. Then, use the following command in the Terminal: docker run -v /tmp/wiki:/kiwix-data -p 8080:8080 jasiek/kiwix-server filename.zim Replace "filename" with the name of the ZIM file you downloaded. If you take the app installation route, Kiwix makes your job a lot easier. Open the app on your computer, and you can directly browse through the catalog. Astronomy, Hollywood, Chemistry, Comics — you name it, and there are repositories for the topics. Simply select the topic, the relevant collection, and hit the Download button in the right pane. Those who aren't familiar with Docker or other self-hosting solutions will definitely find this method more user-friendly. Download as many books as you want and access them via the Downloaded section within the app.
Keep your network struggles at bay
There are a few advantages to storing frequently accessed websites and databases locally. For starters, you don't have to rely on your university's network connection to complete your projects or assignments on time. Moreover, you can quickly access information about a certain topic without any lag or latency. If you use a NAS at home or in your dorm, simply store all the data in a certain folder and access any webpage you like — almost like an offline version of the Wayback Machine. You can also share specific folders with your roommates or friends to collaborate with them, so that they can also access the required documentation offline.
Kiwix
Kiwix is a knowledge aggregator that lets you store offline copies of online resources.
See at Github
Expand
Collapse
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
This cool ESP32-powered D&D dice roller makes it look like you're playing TTRPGs in a 90s sci-fi movie
2 days ago
4 ways smart plugs became the unsung heroes in my smart home
2 days ago
Activepieces is a self-hosted automation suite powered by your local LLM
2 days ago
3 reasons a Dev Drive might be the perfect addition to your Windows install
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Review: Dying Light: The Beast is the true Dying Light sequel I'd been waiting for
4 times when an M.2 heatsink is more than just cosmetic
4 reasons an ESP32 display beats an old tablet for a smart home dashboard
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.