You can Google the world around you by video now for free - with Search Live | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
You can Google the world around you by video now for free - with Search Live
If the feature sounds familiar, it's because it works similarly to Gemini Live. But there's a big difference.
Written by
Sabrina Ortiz, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 9:59 a.m. PT
GoogleFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways Search Live officially launches in the US. You can share your video feed and talk to Search.The experience is free and doesn't require a Labs opt-in. Oftentimes, there isn't a better way to describe something than through the subject itself. Now, with Google Search, when words don't cut it, you can search with live video, talking to Google in real time.
Live Search On Wednesday, Google finally launched its Live Search feature, first unveiled at Google I/O in May.
Also: Follow your favorite sites and creators in Google Discover - now with just one clickThe feature is straightforward in the same way you would use Google Lens to point to something and take a photo. Now there's a new option in which you can select the Search Live feature and activate a live video experience where you show it the world around you and ask questions using your voice.
Similar to Gemini Live If the feature sounds familiar, it's because it works similarly to Gemini Live. However, the major difference is that within the Search Live experience, you are fed Google Search links in real time on your screen as you speak to it, in addition to getting a voice response, while still staying true to the Search experience. Gemini Live works more like a conversational AI assistant, providing you with conversational responses in real time instead of feeding links.
Also: How to get rid of AI Overviews in Google Search: 4 easy waysWith Search Live, there is also the added convenience of accessing the feature right within Google. It targets users who are seeking a web search experience and provides them with a helpful AI tool, as opposed to people who are explicitly seeking AI features and seeking Gemini. There are many everyday cases for Search Live, and I was able to experience a demo in person that simulated many of these situations.ExamplesFor example, in one of the demos, the demoer used Search Live to figure out which snack was the best to have out of a broad selection that met their criteria for the activity they were about to do and their food goals. Search Live was able to verbally tell them and populate links. Also: Gemini arrives in Chrome - here's everything it can do nowAnother example was a broken fan, and the user wanted to get notes on how to fix it. Not only was Search Live able to give verbal suggestions, but it also fed links with useful resources.
Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
You can run a Google search directly in Windows now - no browser needed
Follow your favorite sites and creators in Google Discover - now with just one click
Gemini arrives in Chrome - here's everything it can do now
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use