How to Start a Business (2025 Guide) – Forbes Advisor
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Account
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How To Start A Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Advisor
All Business
VPN
Web Hosting & Design
VOIP
Project Management Software
PoS Software
HR Payroll Software
CRM Software
Company Formation
CRM Software
You might be using an unsupported or outdated browser. To get the best possible experience please use the latest version of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, or Microsoft Edge to view this website.
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
advisor
Business
How to Start a Business (2025 Guide)
Audited & Verified: Sep 12, 2025, 11:24am
Dennis O'Reilly, J.D.Staff WriterIn his decades-long career in tech journalism, Dennis has written about nearly every type of hardware and software. He was a founding editor of Ziff Davis’ Computer Select in the 1990s, senior associate editor for PCWorld in the 2000s and creator of...Read Full BioDennis O'Reilly, J.D.Staff WriterIn his decades-long career in tech journalism, Dennis has written about nearly every type of hardware and software. He was a founding editor of Ziff Davis’ Computer Select in the 1990s, senior associate editor for PCWorld in the 2000s and creator of...Read Full BioWritten ByDennis O'Reilly, J.D. Dennis O'Reilly, J.D.Staff WriterIn his decades-long career in tech journalism, Dennis has written about nearly every type of hardware and software. He was a founding editor of Ziff Davis’ Computer Select in the 1990s, senior associate editor for PCWorld in the 2000s and creator of...Read Full BioDennis O'Reilly, J.D.Staff WriterIn his decades-long career in tech journalism, Dennis has written about nearly every type of hardware and software. He was a founding editor of Ziff Davis’ Computer Select in the 1990s, senior associate editor for PCWorld in the 2000s and creator of...Read Full BioStaff Writer Reviewed byLauren HolznienkemperStaff EditorLauren (Hansen) Holznienkemper is a lead editor for the small business vertical at Forbes Advisor, specializing in HR, payroll and recruiting solutions for small businesses. Using research and writing skills from her academic background, Lauren prior...Read Full BioReviewed byLauren HolznienkemperStaff EditorLauren (Hansen) Holznienkemper is a lead editor for the small business vertical at Forbes Advisor, specializing in HR, payroll and recruiting solutions for small businesses. Using research and writing skills from her academic background, Lauren prior...Read Full BioReviewedLauren HolznienkemperReviewed byLauren HolznienkemperStaff EditorLauren (Hansen) Holznienkemper is a lead editor for the small business vertical at Forbes Advisor, specializing in HR, payroll and recruiting solutions for small businesses. Using research and writing skills from her academic background, Lauren prior...Read Full BioReviewed byLauren HolznienkemperStaff EditorLauren (Hansen) Holznienkemper is a lead editor for the small business vertical at Forbes Advisor, specializing in HR, payroll and recruiting solutions for small businesses. Using research and writing skills from her academic background, Lauren prior...Read Full BioStaff Editor & 1 other
Editorial Note: We earn a commission from partner links on Forbes Advisor. Commissions do not affect our editors' opinions or evaluations.
Getty
Table of Contents
Step One: Research and Plan
Step Two: Secure Funding
Step Three: Register Your Business
Step Four: Launch Your Business
Step Five: Establish Your Business
Step Six: Create Value
Tips for Buying an Established Business
Ready To Start Your Own Business?
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Show more
Learning how to start a business and actually starting a business are easy. Over a recent five-year span, there were an average of 4.7 million businesses started each year in the U.S.
On the other hand, starting and growing a successful business is anything but easy. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimates that one in five businesses fail in their first year, nearly half within five years and close to two-thirds before they reach 10 years.
Succeeding as a business owner takes more than smarts, hard work and a great idea. A successful business focuses from day one on establishing and maintaining profitability. There are many ways to define a “successful business,” but making significantly more money than you’re spending on a consistent basis tops most people’s list. No matter how you get there, or how long it takes, your business’s financial success is the result of keeping a steady focus on the bottom line.
Unless you’re one of those rare unicorns whose ultimate goal is to sell their bright idea to a megacorp, your new business will need to generate more revenue than it spends relatively quickly and consistently. Achieving your ultimate business objective has six stages: planning, securing funding, registering, launching, establishing and creating value.
Featured Partners Advertisement1Tailor BrandsPricing $0 + state feeService Time Varies By State & Package1Tailor BrandsLearn More On Tailor Brands' Website2LegalZoomPricing $0 + State FeeService Time Varies By State & Package2LegalZoomLearn More On LegalZoom's Website3FormationsPricing $0 + State FeeService Time Varies By State & Package3FormationsLearn More On Formations' Website4ZenBusinessPricing $0 + State FeesService Time Varies By State & Package4ZenBusinessLearn More On ZenBusiness' Website
Step One: Research and Plan
One of the first steps to starting a business is determining what kind of business you want to run. If you know you want to be in business for yourself but don’t know where to start, Forbes contributor Melissa Houston identifies five types of business that are expected to be in demand in 2025. The list includes healthcare for seniors, products and services that promote sustainability, artificial intelligence (AI) consulting, digital marketing agencies, and products and services for pets. One thing all five have in common is their potential to generate profits quickly and consistently.
Once you’ve decided on the type of business you’d like to start, you’re ready to begin your research. The SBA offers an omnibus Business Guide that covers planning, launching, managing and growing a business. The guide includes links to SBA funding programs, federal contracting, the SBA Learning Platform for finding training and skills development programs, and a directory of local services for new businesses that you can search by ZIP code.
The Department of Veterans Affairs has created a Veteran Entrepreneur Portal to promote the use of small and disadvantaged businesses. The portal features video tips for starting a business, potential sources for funding and federal contracting opportunities available to veterans.
Free Demographic and Business Data Sources
General Business and Consumer Statistics
Census Bureau:
North American Industry Classification System Census Business Builder
Federal Reserve:
Consumer Credit Data
Consumer Product Safety Commission:
Product Safety Research and Reports
Demographics
Census Bureau:
Census Data Tables (searchable by state and topic)
Bureau of Labor Statistics:
Demographic Data
Economic Indicators and Statistics
Bureau of Labor Statistics:
Consumer Price Index Employment Statistics Labor Force Statistics Pay and Benefits Data
Bureau of Economic Analysis:
Federal Economic Indicators
Money and Interest Rates
Federal Reserve:
Banking and Business Finance Data Daily Interest Rates
Industry-Specific Data
Census Bureau:
Statistics of U.S. Businesses
See More See Less
You don’t have to begin your journey with an official business plan in hand, but you’ll likely need a formal document describing your business at some point, especially if you plan to apply for a business loan or want to attract investors.
Start by finding out more about the businesses you’ll be competing with than they know about themselves. The first thing you want to study is how they manage to turn a profit: Do they get a break on their overheads or other operating expenses somewhere down the line? How much business does their advertising and other marketing investments pull in? Where are their customers coming from, and what’s the best way for you to reach these people?
This way, you can spot the things they’re doing that work and the areas where you can outdo them. Think about the ways your product or service tops theirs, and the best ways to capitalize on your advantages. Take plenty of time to cogitate on the specifics of your business, who you’ll need to hire, upfront costs and all required permits, licenses and certifications.
Tips for Conducting Marketing Research
One of the most effective ways to start a business that’s viable is to first conduct extensive market research. Start by talking to someone with experience in your chosen field and knowledge of your vicinity (for local businesses). The Small Business Administration (SBA), which provides resources on how to start a small business, recommends studying six aspects of your market:
What’s the level of demand for your product or service now and in the future?
Who constitutes the market for your business? Devise profiles of your target customers and determine what will attract them to your product or service.
What is the state of the economy in your target market? This will impact both demand and your marketing approach.
Where are your customers located, and how will they reach your business? This includes e-businesses and the online component of brick-and-mortar operations that need a digital marketing strategy.
What’s the level of market saturation for your business, and what similar options are available to your target customers?
How much will people be willing to pay for your product or service, and will your business be able to realize a profit at this price point?
Select an Ownership Structure
After completing the first phase of your ongoing market research, you’re ready to decide on a business structure. The most common types are sole proprietorship, general partnership, limited liability company (LLC), limited liability partnership (LLP), C-corporation and S-corporation:
Sole proprietorships are the simplest and least expensive, requiring no formal filing, but they make the owner liable for the business’s debts and other liabilities.
General partnerships allow two or more people to share profits, losses and liabilities for the operation, with each partner responsible for filing their own taxes on the revenue they receive from the business. They typically involve a formal partnership agreement.
LLCs must be registered with the state in which the business operates. They protect owners from some of the company’s debts and other liabilities. LLC annual filing requirements are less onerous than those for corporations.
LLPs are often chosen by professional groups, such as lawyers, accountants and doctors, which want to reduce their personal liability without going through the process of incorporating.
C-corporations, or C-corps, have a board of directors and sell shares of the business to investors. They are taxed separately, unlike sole proprietorships, partnerships and LLCs. C-corps may be subject to double taxation because both the business and its owners are taxed when profits are distributed.
S-corporations, or S-corps, are similar to C-corps in having to register with the state, choose a board of directors and sell shares of the business. However, they can pass revenues directly to owners to avoid double taxation.
Write a Business Plan
Once you’ve determined what your business will sell and have devised a strategy for reaching your potential customers, it’s time to create your organization’s road map for success: your business plan. The plan’s three purposes are to describe the focus of the business, explain how it will be funded and designate who you’ll hire to manage and operate the entity.
The SBA provides three free business plan templates: two that take a traditional approach, and one that uses a “lean startup format.”
The traditional business plan format starts with an executive summary and company description, followed by a market analysis, an outline of your organization and management structure, details of the products and services you’ll offer and how they will be sold and marketed. It may also include funding requirements if you’ll be seeking outside sources for financial support, as well as financial projections.
The lean startup business plan is best suited to owners who want to start quickly, have relatively simple needs and intend to alter their operations and marketing efforts as the company grows. The plan covers key partnerships with suppliers, manufacturers, subcontractors and other entities, as well as the activities that will give the business an edge over the competition. It also describes important assets, such as key executives and staff members, intellectual property and sources of capital.
Get an Early Start on Marketing
Your marketing efforts begin well before your first day of operation. In addition to creating your website, you have to optimize it for search engines so that it appears in search results when people enter keywords and phrases related to your products. You’ll also want to add your business to online directories and establish a presence on social media.
Step Two: Secure Funding
With your business plan in hand, you can begin the search for funding by determining how much money you’ll need to start and run your business, which includes the amount you’re able to self-fund with your own money or that of close investors (family and friends). Being able to fund the business yourself gives you full control over its operation, while relying on outside investors usually requires ceding some ownership and operational responsibility.
How much does it cost to start a business? You can start a business for less than $500 if you sell digital products or dropship.
A brick-and-mortar business, on the other hand, can cost tens of thousands of dollars.
Funding options include small business loans, crowdfunding and the SBA’s Lender Match program that works with more than 800 lenders located throughout the United States for both SBA-approved loans and conventional business loans. Our guide to the Best Startup Business Loans recommends considering five factors when comparing startup business loans:
Make sure you can meet the bank’s requirements for minimum time in business and annual revenue targets.
Determine whether you’ll receive the funds as a lump sum or as needed. Traditional term loans are best for the former, while lines of credit can be less expensive in the long run.
The repayment schedule may be monthly, weekly or daily depending on the terms of the loan. Your business’s cash flow must meet the repayment requirements.
Know what added fees you may incur such as origination charges, late payment penalties and other loan costs.
Confirm that the lender’s customer support is adequate to address potential repayment issues quickly and completely.
Related: Low on capital? Read our guide to the best businesses to start with little money.
Step Three: Register Your Business
One of the first orders of business for your new company is to select a name that’s unique, descriptive and easy to remember. Make sure the internet domain that matches your chosen name is available, and confirm its uniqueness with your state’s business-name-search tool.
The SBA recommends four ways to protect your business’s name:
An entity name safeguards your business at the state level.
A trademark protects your business and its products at the national level.
A doing business as (DBA) name doesn’t protect your business, but your state may require that you register the DBA name, as do certain business structures.
A domain name establishes the web address associated with your business and prevents other entities from misusing your business’s brand.
Business types other than sole proprietorships and partnerships must register with the state’s official business liaison, which is usually the Secretary of State office. A registered agent service is necessary for LLCs and corporations
in all states as the point of contact for official correspondences with state agencies.
Registered agents are required to have a physical address that’s accessible during business hours to accept tax and legal documents on behalf of the business. You can serve as your own registered agent if you’re available during standard office hours and take full responsibility for complying with all state requirements.
The business will also need an employer identification number (EIN) from the IRS, as well as various licenses and permits from local, state and federal entities. The specific ones your business will need depend on your industry and jurisdiction.
Be sure to complete these steps before opening your doors for business:
Open a business bank account. This is frequently done as part of funding preparations.
Hire a bookkeeper or buy small-business accounting software.
Make sure you have all your startup costs covered.
Purchase insurance for your business.
Choose and install the hardware, software and other equipment your operation will require.
Most businesses will also need to recruit and hire the workers who will power the operation. Finding the right pace of hiring can be a challenge for a new business. Overhiring can be avoided by establishing and sticking to a hiring budget. This also ensures that you have sufficient time and resources for onboarding new hires and monitoring their workloads to prevent overburdening them.
Step Four: Launch Your Business
In your business’s first year of operation, it should record several milestones:
The official launch of your products and services.
Your first customer.
The business’s total revenue meets its total costs (break-even point).
Its revenues consistently exceed costs, allowing proceeds to be invested back in the business (positive cash flow).
Reaching its first anniversary, which about 20% of U.S. startups don’t achieve, according to the BLS.
To realize these milestones, your business has to navigate around potential disruptions to your production and marketing plans such as errors in financial projections, problems with supply or ineffective marketing, to name just a few.
How To Overcome Common Startup Obstacles
The day that cookie entrepreneur Debbi Fields opened the first Mrs. Fields cookie store in Palo Alto in the late 1970s, she bet her husband that she could break $50 in sales before closing time. Hours passed with no customers arriving. To avoid losing the bet, Fields took to the streets, handing out free samples. She sold $75 worth and happily collected from her husband.
Fields knew right away that if something’s not working, try something else. She also was laser focused on getting immediate feedback, calculating how much she needed to bring in each hour to be profitable (she estimated it was about $32—those were the days!) Her willingness to adapt and commitment to reaching and maintaining profitability helped her build an empire.
A new business may struggle to get the attention of its target market, secure adequate funding or recruit qualified employees. These are some responses to common startup glitches.
Get customer feedback. The only way to find out is to let them try it and then ask them what they think. Create different versions of your “basic model,” whether you’re selling pizzas or Porsches, and conduct A/B tests as you try out variations and combinations.
Diversify funding sources. In addition to keeping a close watch on your spending, look for ways to diversify your funding sources. Alternatives to banks and venture capital include government grants, incubators, partnerships and crowdfunding.
Set SMART goals. The SMART approach to goal setting helps managers confirm that their goals are specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and time-bound. By focusing on tangible and achievable objectives, businesses see the progress they’re making, which boosts motivation. However, you have to avoid over-emphasizing short-term goals, especially if they’re more difficult to reach than you expected.
Hire quality staff. The job candidates with the most stellar qualifications can be difficult to attract to a startup. Many new companies offer employees equity in the business in lieu of high salaries. They also strive to create a positive work culture that aligns with workers’ values.
Step Five: Establish Your Business
Now that you’ve laid the groundwork by learning how to start your own business, understand that your business’s first-year accomplishments are merely the prelude to the challenges and triumphs you’ll encounter as you guide the enterprise into its mature stage. You’ve begun to establish your all-important customer base, found and trained your all-important staff and are generating sufficient revenue to invest some profits back into your operation. It’s time to rework your business’s financial plan to ensure the funds needed to power your growth will be available.
As a startup, your goal was to achieve profitability and consistent revenue generation. However, this is no time to simply stay the course, no matter how well you think the business is doing. The transition from startup to established entity requires reassessing your goals, marketing strategy and approach to financing.
Reconsider Your Product Lineup and Target Market
Build on what you have learned about your customers and what they like and dislike about your products to adjust your marketing strategy and plan enhancements to your product lineup. What your customers want and need changes over time, so capitalizing on these changes requires that you get ahead of them by constantly analyzing the features they prize and those they shun.
You’ve created a community around your business that you can tap through direct contact and social media. Let your customers know that you value their feedback and are attuned to their needs. Expand your online presence and take every opportunity to listen to and respond to the insights your customers and potential customers share with you.
Adjust Your Sales and Marketing Strategy
The best way to grow your business
is by finding new sources for generating leads that you can convert into sales. Customer relationship management (CRM) systems collect and analyze information about your current and potential clients from online sources and your direct interaction with the public. The goal is to build awareness of your brand while you identify the most promising leads and learn the demographics of your target audience.
Foster Growth and Engagement Among Your Employees
The expectations of your workers change as the company transitions from startup to an established business.
Listening to employees and responding to their needs doesn’t happen once or twice a year but regularly through thoughtful interactions in the workplace and during extracurricular activities. Make them aware of the opportunities for growth and promotion available to them, and support their willingness to take risks and try new things, which makes them more engaged and effective.
Devise a Plan for Sustaining Profitability
Just as you created a business plan as part of your startup preparations, you’ll need a profit plan as the company transitions to its established phase. The plan should cover five areas of analysis:
Revenue projections estimate sales, pricing and volume for the company’s next year of operations, and potentially long term as well.
Cost projections consider your direct and indirect costs of producing, distributing and marketing your products, including labor, materials and overheads.
Cash flow analysis examines incoming and outgoing money, as well as your business’s cash reserves.
Balance sheet projections estimate the organization’s assets, liabilities and equity for the coming year and possibly further out.
Income statement projections calculate the revenue, expenses and net income of the business in the short term and long term.
Step Six: Create Value
Once your business has successfully passed from startup to established, it’s time to think about your exit strategy, even if you have no immediate plans to move on. The ultimate goal you had in mind when you first imagined starting the business has likely been adjusted, as industries, markets and the economy in general evolve. Regardless of your departure plan, the mature phase of the business is when you maximize its value prior to cashing out.
The components of a value-enhancing strategy are a strong brand, diversified revenue streams, intellectual property, operational efficiency and financial management.
Maintain your brand. A strong brand promotes customer loyalty and enhances your company’s visibility in the marketplace. Your business logos and the color and other design elements of your branding help communicate your commitment to customers and strengthen the trust they place in your products.
Maximize revenue sources. The more revenue streams your business generates, the less risk it faces and the more valuable it becomes. Always be searching for new markets and more attractive offerings for your existing customers. Diversified revenue sources make your business more resilient, which increases its value to potential buyers.
Take advantage of your intellectual property (IP). Businesses may undervalue their IP assets such as trademarks, patents and proprietary work processes. Consult with an IP attorney about potential royalty and licensing opportunities. Any process innovations you’ve developed for your company also enhance its value to suitors.
Operate more efficiently. Boosting the efficiency of your operations contributes to profitability and worker productivity, both of which improve the lot of your workers and reduce turnover. Two ways to enhance your everyday processes are by applying technology judiciously and training employees to give them skills that allow them to be more effective.
Enhance your financial management. Sound business decisions rely on accurate and up-to-date information, which requires maintaining reliable financial records. Investors and potential buyers look first to your business’s financials and will be impressed by their completeness and how well they are organized.
Tips for Buying an Established Business
Sometimes the fastest way to succeed in business is by not starting from scratch. But before you start shopping for an existing business to take over, think about the reasons the current owner is selling. It could be that they simply have achieved the goal they set when they started out. However, it could also be because the person expects a downturn or other circumstance that threatens the business’s profitability.
Keep these factors in mind when you’re considering the purchase of an ongoing business.
What do the business’s financials look like? Ask to see at least three years of balance sheets, cash flow statements and income statements for the operation.
How long has the business operated, and why is it being sold? Confirm that there are no legal matters or outstanding debt that will affect the operation post-sale.
Are there any ongoing contractual obligations or pending liabilities? These may or may not be transferable to a new owner.
Is the business appropriately staffed? The current workforce may be insufficient to ensure customers’ needs are met and production meets demand. Also confirm that there won’t be a mass exodus of employees following the transition.
How dependent is the operation on the current owner? If the seller has unique knowledge, skills or relationships with key customers, their departure could hinder the business’s ability to operate profitably.
How successful have the business’s marketing efforts been? Understand the current marketing channels and confirm that its promotional efforts lead to a steady flow of new customers.
Are there any unresolved customer complaints or disputes? Verify the effectiveness of the business’s dispute resolution process and its current level of customer satisfaction.
Which physical assets are included with the purchase price? Usually all permanent fixtures are considered part of the building, but display cases, equipment and other items that aren’t part of the structure may be removed post-sale.
Is the business’s technology up to date? IT is an ongoing investment for any business, but you want to start with a solid technology foundation, including high-speed network links and strong data security measures.
Sources for buying businesses include online business marketplaces, business brokers, industry trade associations and classified ads. Note that the IRS allows you to deduct up to $5,000 of the cost of the business in the first year if you spend less than $50,000 in total, but the deduction disappears if you spend more than $55,000.
Ready To Start Your Own Business?
Learning how to start your own business is relatively easy but establishing and maintaining its growth and profitability requires ongoing planning, research and risk taking. There are plenty of resources available to point you in the right direction, many of which we’ve listed here. Plus, to make it easier, we’ve laid out a step-by-step guide to help you prepare, launch and grow your own business.
Featured Partners Advertisement1Tailor BrandsPricing $0 + state feeService Time Varies By State & Package1Tailor BrandsLearn More On Tailor Brands' Website2LegalZoomPricing $0 + State FeeService Time Varies By State & Package2LegalZoomLearn More On LegalZoom's Website3FormationsPricing $0 + State FeeService Time Varies By State & Package3FormationsLearn More On Formations' Website4ZenBusinessPricing $0 + State FeesService Time Varies By State & Package4ZenBusinessLearn More On ZenBusiness' Website
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What are the 4 types of business?
The most common types of business structures are sole proprietorships, partnerships, limited liability companies (LLCs) and corporations. Each structure has different requirements, tax implications and levels of personal liability protection.
How do you start a business when you have no money?
Some businesses, such as those selling digital products or using dropshipping, can be started for less than $500. You can also look into funding options like small business loans, crowdfunding or the SBA’s Lender Match program to connect with lenders, though this option requires a lot of upfront legwork to prove you have a viable business option.
What is the easiest business to start?
Businesses that don’t require a physical storefront, such as digital product sales or dropshipping, are generally the easiest and least expensive to launch since you don’t need inventory or overhead. These can often be started for under $500, compared with brick-and-mortar businesses that can cost tens of thousands of dollars to open.
Was this article helpful?
Share your feedback
Send feedback to the editorial team
Rate this Article
★
★
★
★
★
Please rate the article
Email
Please enter valid email address
Comments
We'd love to hear from you, please enter your comments.
Invalid email address
Submit
This form is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google
Privacy Policy and
Terms of Service apply.
Thank You for your feedback!
Something went wrong. Please try again later.
Buying Guides
Best LLC Services
Best Registered Agent Services
Best Trademark Registration Services
Top LegalZoom Competitors
Best Business Loans
Best Business Plan Software
Reviews
ZenBusiness Review
LegalZoom LLC Review
Northwest Registered Agent Review
Rocket Lawyer Review
Inc. Authority Review
Rocket Lawyer vs. LegalZoom
Bizee Review (Formerly Incfile)
Swyft Filings Review
Harbor Compliance Review
Comparison
Sole Proprietorship vs. LLC
LLC vs. Corporation
LLC vs. S Corp
LLP vs. LLC
DBA vs. LLC
LegalZoom vs. Incfile
LegalZoom vs. ZenBusiness
LegalZoom vs. Rocket Lawyer
ZenBusiness vs. Incfile
Read More
How to Set Up an LLC
How to Get a Business License
LLC Operating Agreement Template
501(c)(3) Application Guide
What is a Business License?
What is an LLC?
What is an S Corp?
What is a C Corp?
What is a DBA?
What is a Sole Proprietorship?
What is a Registered Agent?
How to Dissolve an LLC
How to File a DBA
What Are Articles Of Incorporation?
Types Of Business Ownership
Next Up In
Business
Best Online Legal Services
How To Write A Business Plan
How To Start A Candle Business
Starting An S-Corp
LLC Vs. C-Corp
How Much Does It Cost To Start An LLC?
How To Start An Online Boutique
Most Recession-Proof Businesses In 2025
How To Buy A Business
Top Small Business Statistics
16 Ways to Make Money From Home Today
Real Estate LLC Guide
More from
How To Get A Business License In Massachusetts
By Valerie Catalano, J.D.
7 Organizational Structure Types (With Examples)
By Dennis O'Reilly, J.D.
What To Know About QuickBooks’ New AI Tools for Small Businesses
By Forbes Advisor Brand Group
How To Get A Business License In The District Of Columbia
By Valerie Catalano, J.D.
How To Start A Photography Business
By Jennifer Simonson
What Is An Interchange Fee? Here’s Why They Are Required
By Dana Miranda
Information provided on Forbes Advisor is for educational purposes only. Your financial situation is unique and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer financial advice, advisory or brokerage services, nor do we recommend or advise individuals or to buy or sell particular stocks or securities. Performance information may have changed since the time of publication. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
Forbes Advisor adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved, or otherwise endorsed by our partners.
Dennis O'Reilly, J.D.
Staff Writer
In his decades-long career in tech journalism, Dennis has written about nearly every type of hardware and software. He was a founding editor of Ziff Davis’ Computer Select in the 1990s, senior associate editor for PCWorld in the 2000s and creator of CNET’s Workers’ Edge blog in the 2010s. For Forbes Advisor SMB, Dennis covers HR, payroll, payment processing, business formation and many other products and services for small and midsize businesses.
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise
lorem
Are you sure you want to rest your choices?
cancel
ok
The Forbes Advisor editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Advisor site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site.
This site does not include all companies or products available within the market.
Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them. The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Advisor. While we work hard to provide accurate and up to date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Advisor does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof. Here is a list of our partners who offer products that we have affiliate links for.