Chicken Florentine Casserole Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Chicken Casserole
Eggs Florentine Casserole
Chicken Vegetable Casserole
Chicken Florentine Meatballs
Chicken Broccoli Rice Casserole
Chicken Alfredo Casserole
Chicken with Florentine Sauce
Chicken Parmesan Casserole
Chicken Florentine Soup
Chicken & Swiss Casserole
Chicken Florentine Pizza
Chicken Pasta Casserole
Chicken Florentine Panini
Macaroni Chicken Casserole
Chicken Caesar Florentine
Chicken Macaroni Casserole
Chicken Broccoli Lasagna
Florentine Chicken Soup
Chicken Florentine Casserole Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesPasta DishesBaked Pasta
Chicken Florentine Casserole
Chicken Florentine Casserole Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.5 | 19 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Bake: 40 min.
By
Kelsey Dimberg
Recipe by Dori Jackson, Gulf Breeze, Florida
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Jun. 30, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This chicken Florentine casserole captures the classic elements of the original—white sauce, spinach, basil—and translates them into an easy weeknight pasta bake.
This chicken Florentine casserole is a paradox: it’s cozy, creamy and comforting, but also somehow bright and fresh. It’s inspired by a classic recipe that’s so popular, you’ve probably eaten it without knowing its name.
Florentine sauce might refer to the Italian city of Florence in its name, but it’s actually a French creation. At its simplest, Florentine is a creamy white sauce with spinach, often served with a protein like chicken, fish (like tilapia Florentine) or eggs (for classic eggs Florentine). Variations on classic chicken Florentine abound. This one is a simplified pasta casserole version, which calls for low-key pantry staples (elbow pasta, condensed soup). It’s like mac and cheese meets Florentine with its golden, toasty bread crumb crust. Make this on any busy weeknight—even the kids will eat it up.
Chicken Florentine Casserole Ingredients
Elbow macaroni: Noodles are a natural pairing with the thick, creamy Florentine-inspired sauce. We like elbow macaroni, which are naturally bite-sized.
Shredded cooked chicken: This recipe is a great way to use leftover chicken, whether grilled or rotisserie. You can quickly shred chicken with forks or the paddle attachment of a stand mixer.
Condensed cream of mushroom soup: Plenty of our favorite casserole recipes start with condensed soup. It delivers tons of flavor, and all you need to do is open a can.
Swiss cheese: Shredded Swiss cheese dissolves into the sauce, giving it a rich texture.
Frozen creamed spinach: Frozen vegetables are convenient and still full of flavor. Frozen creamed spinach adds extra richness, but you can use plain frozen spinach instead; just make sure to thaw and drain it first.
Mayonnaise: The secret ingredient in the sauce is mayonnaise, which adds a distinct tangy flavor to balance the rich cheese and soup.
Fresh basil: Don’t use dried basil if you can help it. Fresh basil packs a bold flavor punch that the dried stuff just can’t match. To quickly mince basil, roll the leaves, slice them into strips, then finely chop them.
Spices: Garlic powder, dried thyme and pepper build up the flavor.
Seasoned bread crumbs: Looking for an easy way to add spice? Sprinkle seasoned bread crumbs over the top of the casserole to form a bronzed, crispy crust.
Butter: Drizzle melted butter over the casserole to help the top brown.
Directions
Step 1: Cook the noodles
Preheat the oven to 350°F. Cook the macaroni according to the package directions. Drain and set aside.
Editor’s Tip: When making any type of pasta for a casserole, it’s best to cook it to al dente, because it will continue to cook in the sauce in the oven.
Step 2: Make the casserole filling
ALLISON CEBULLA FOR TASTE OF HOME
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine the shredded chicken with the soup, cheese, spinach, mayonnaise, basil, garlic powder, thyme and pepper.
ALLISON CEBULLA FOR TASTE OF HOME
Drain the macaroni, then gently stir it into the chicken mixture.
Step 3: Set up the casserole
ALLISON CEBULLA FOR TASTE OF HOME
Transfer the filling to an ungreased 2-1/2-quart baking dish.
ALLISON CEBULLA FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs and butter together. Sprinkle them over the top of the casserole.
Step 4: Bake the casserole
Bake the casserole, uncovered, until it’s bubbly and golden brown on top, about 40 to 45 minutes.
Editor’s Tip: If the bread crumbs start darkening too early, cover the casserole dish with foil and continue cooking. Remove the foil for the last few minutes.
ALLISON CEBULLA FOR TASTE OF HOME
Chicken Florentine Casserole Variations
Lighten up: Use plain frozen spinach for the creamed spinach and low-fat condensed soup.
Turn up the heat: This creamy dish can stand up to spice. Add a big pinch of cayenne or pepper flakes with the other seasonings.
Change the cheese: For a more complex flavor, replace 1/2 cup of the Swiss cheese with shredded Parmesan.
How to Store Chicken Florentine Casserole
Keep leftover chicken Florentine casserole in the refrigerator. Cover the casserole dish with foil or storage wrap, or transfer leftovers to an airtight container.
How long does chicken Florentine casserole last?
The chicken Florentine pasta bake will keep for up to four days in the fridge. The pasta noodles will soften as they sit but will still be tasty.
Can you freeze chicken Florentine casserole?
Technically, you can freeze chicken Florentine casserole, but it’s not our favorite freezer casserole recipe. The mayonnaise in the sauce can separate when frozen, resulting in a “broken” (less smooth) sauce once defrosted. It’s still safe to eat, but is less appealing. If you need to freeze it, store it in the freezer for the shortest possible time, up to one month.
How do you reheat chicken Florentine casserole?
We like to reheat this casserole in the oven, which crisps the bread crumb topping back up. Heat the oven to 350°. Cover the casserole with foil and bake until it’s heated through, about 20 to 30 minutes. Remove the foil for the last 10 minutes of baking to crisp the top.
Chicken Florentine Casserole Tips
ALLISON CEBULLA FOR TASTE OF HOME
Can you make chicken Florentine casserole in a skillet?
Yes, you can adapt this recipe for chicken Florentine for a skillet. After cooking the pasta, drain the noodles and set them aside. Combine the sauce ingredients—minus the chicken—in a skillet and bring them to a simmer. Stir the sauce for a few minutes until the shredded cheese starts to melt. Then add the chicken and noodles and simmer a few minutes more, until everything looks creamy and well-combined. Heat the broiler, then sprinkle the bread crumbs and butter topping over the skillet. Broil the skillet chicken Florentine casserole until the topping is browned and crispy.
What can you serve with chicken Florentine casserole?
Creamy chicken Florentine casserole can be a one-dish meal, since it has protein, starch and vegetables. But it’s absolutely delicious with any good pasta side dish, like roasted broccoli, sauteed zucchini or green beans. In a hurry? Just microwave your favorite frozen veggie until steaming, and serve them with a dollop of butter. As a bonus, serve the casserole with piping hot bread rolls. (We won’t tell anyone if you use the kind from the tube!)
Test Kitchen Approved
Chicken Florentine Casserole
4.5 | 19 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:6 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:40 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 cups uncooked elbow macaroni
3 cups shredded cooked chicken
1 can (10-3/4 ounces) condensed cream of mushroom soup, undiluted
2 cups shredded Swiss cheese
1 package (10 ounces) frozen creamed spinach, thawed
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup loosely packed minced fresh basil
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/2 cup seasoned bread crumbs
2 tablespoons butter, melted
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. Cook macaroni according to package directions.
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine chicken, soup, cheese, spinach, mayonnaise, basil, garlic powder, thyme and pepper.
Drain macaroni; gently stir into chicken mixture. Transfer to an ungreased 2-1/2-qt. baking dish. Toss bread crumbs and butter; sprinkle over casserole.
Bake, uncovered, until bubbly, 40-45 minutes.
Nutrition Facts
1-1/2 cups: 539 calories, 36g fat (13g saturated fat), 111mg cholesterol, 1006mg sodium, 17g carbohydrate (4g sugars, 2g fiber), 36g protein.
Author
Kelsey Dimberg
A former in-house editor at Taste of Home, Kelsey now writes articles and novels from her home in Chicago. After going gluten-free more than a decade ago, Kelsey turned to home cooking and baking as a way to re-create her favorite foods. Her specialties include gluten-free sourdough bread, pizza and pastry.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Creamy and comforting, this chicken and spinach bake is sure to be a hit at dinnertime. The toasty bread crumb topping delivers a bit of a crunch. —Dori Jackson, Gulf Breeze, Florida
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box