These Are the Best Smart Devices That Work With Amazon Alexa in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Smart Home
These Are the Best Smart Devices That Work With Amazon Alexa in 2025
Amazon’s digital assistant, Alexa, works with a variety of smart devices -- from smart bulbs to security cameras. Here are the best ones we’ve tested.
Our Experts
Written by
David Priest
Written by
Macy Meyer
Written by
Chris Wedel
Article updated on April 10, 2025 at 8:17 AM PDT
David Priest Former editor David Priest is an award-winning writer and editor who formerly covered home security for CNET.
See full bio
Macy Meyer Writer II Macy is a writer on the AI Team. She covers how AI is changing daily life and how to make the most of it. This includes writing about consumer AI products and their real-world impact, from breakthrough tools reshaping daily life to the intimate ways people interact with AI technology day-to-day. Macy is a North Carolina native who graduated from UNC-Chapel Hill with a BA in English and a second BA in Journalism. You can reach her at mmeyer@cnet.com. Expertise Macy covers consumer AI products and their real-world impact Credentials Macy has been working for CNET for coming on 2 years. Prior to CNET, Macy received a North Carolina College Media Association award in sports writing.
See full bio
Chris Wedel Home Tech Editor Chris Wedel is a fan of all things tech and gadgets. Living in rural Kansas with his wife and two young boys makes finding ways to stay online tricky — not to mention making my homestead smarter. However, by utilizing his years of experience in the tech and mobile communications industries, success is assured. When not conquering the outdoors and testing new gadgets, Chris enjoys cruising a gravel road in his UTV with some good tunes, camping, and hanging out with his family. Expertise Smart home devices, outdoors gadgets, smartphones, wearables, kid's tech, and some dabbling in 3D printing Credentials Covered the mobile and smart home tech space for the past five years for multiple large publications.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Alexa, the digital assistant from Amazon, has ben around for many years now, and it's the go-to option for a lot of people. It is also one of the more capable smart assistants out there, and works with a ton of smart home accessories and gadgets. In fact, there are over 200 voice commands for all sorts of things, like controlling your lights, adjusting the thermostat or seeing who's at the front door. Alexa can even assist in the kitchen with timers and measurement conversions or give your family game night a digital twist. Our Picks
Best Alexa device overall (and best Alexa-compatible smart speaker) Amazon Echo (fourth-gen)
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible home security camera Ring Stick Up Cam Battery
Jump to details
$80 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible smart display Amazon Echo Show 8 (2nd gen)
Jump to details
$130 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible smart lock August Wi-Fi Smart Lock
Jump to details
$149 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible smart thermostat Amazon Smart Thermostat
Jump to details
$64 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible smart bulb Wyze Bulb
Jump to details
$46 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible DIY home security system Ring Alarm Pro
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa-compatible smart plug TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini
Jump to details
$15 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart home controller Amazon Echo Hub
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 4 more
Table of Contents
These Are the Best Smart Devices That Work With Amazon Alexa in 2025
What is the best overall Amazon Alexa smart device?
Best Amazon Alexa devices of 2025
Best Alexa device overall (and best Alexa-compatible smart speaker)
Best Alexa-compatible home security camera
Best Alexa-compatible smart display
Best Alexa-compatible smart lock
Best Alexa-compatible smart thermostat
Best Alexa-compatible smart bulb
Best Alexa-compatible DIY home security system
Best Alexa-compatible smart plug
Best smart home controller
Factors to consider when choosing an Alexa device
How we test Amazon Alexa devices
Other Amazon Alexa devices we tested
Amazon Alexa device FAQs
The Alexa ecosystem has grown far beyond the traditional smart speaker format. Now, you'll find Amazon's assistant built into everything from your TV and smart thermostats to home security systems and cameras. Navigating all these options can be overwhelming if you're just starting your smart home journey. That's why we've gone through the options to find the best Alexa-compatible devices that deserve a spot in your smart home. What is the best overall Amazon Alexa smart device?CNET experts have spent years testing smart displays, smart speakers, home security cameras and systems, smart thermostats, smart plugs and smart locks. All of this diligent testing has gone into building out this list of the best Amazon Alexa and Alexa-compatible devices. After years of hands-on testing, CNET staff have determined the Amazon Echo (fourth-gen) smart speaker is the very best Amazon Alexa device overall.The fourth-gen Amazon Echo is the freshest smart speaker in years, adding real home smarts and premium sound quality. The best changes to this Echo are indeed the sound quality and home smarts, but the most obvious change is its cool spherical design. With a sleek design and improved functionality, this smart speaker can (and maybe should) be a staple in every household.Best Amazon Alexa devices of 2025
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best Alexa device overall (and best Alexa-compatible smart speaker)
Amazon Echo (fourth-gen)
Pros
Improved sound quality and powerful bass
Better smart home connectivity
Easy and quality stereo pairing
Cons
A bulky design
No revolutionary upgrades from competition
Amazon's third-gen Echo Dot with Clock was our previous favorite Alexa speaker, but since the 2020 product line, the flagship fourth-generation Echo speaker has got the nod. At $100, the spheroidal speaker is more expensive than the $50 fourth-generation Amazon Echo Dot, although the improvements in sound quality and some intriguing smart home features justify the additional cost. This smart device's shape sets Amazon's newer Echo speaker apart. Where the third-gen Echo offered a barely noticeable sound quality improvement over its predecessor, the ball-shaped fourth-gen version has noticeably better audio output, including respectable bass for a speaker in its price range. On the smart home front, the fourth-gen Echo also gets a built-in Zigbee receiver, carrying over a feature from the now-defunct Amazon Echo Plus. The Zigbee receiver lets the new Echo function as a smart home connectivity point for compatible smart lights, plugs, and other Zigbee-based accessories. That means you can use the Echo itself as a hub to play music, among other things, without the need for an additional piece of hardware to get those devices online.   ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Target
$100 at B&H Photo-Video
Learn more
Amazon Echo (fourth-gen) review
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Best Alexa-compatible home security camera
Ring Stick Up Cam Battery
Pros
Affordable
Works indoors and outside
Uses rechargeable battery
Cons
Does not support Apple HomeKit
Some features require a subscription
The Ring Stick Up Cam Battery is a great camera for a lot of reasons, but thanks to its reasonable price and tight integration with Amazon Echo devices -- it's an easy pick here. Plus, because a rechargeable battery powers it, you can place it anywhere you want -- inside or out -- and not have to worry about a power outlet. It comes with weatherproof housing, clear night vision, a 130-degree field of view, a loud siren and more. Thanks to that tight Amazon integration, if you have an Echo Show smart display, like the Echo Show 15, you can put a live view widget on the screen. You can also just ask Alexa to show the feed on the screen with a simple voice command as well.  ... Show more
Get it now
$80 at Amazon
$80 at Best Buy
$80 at The Home Depot
Learn more
Ring Stick Up Cam Battery
review
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best Alexa-compatible smart display
Amazon Echo Show 8 (2nd gen)
Pros
Solid sound quality, good screen resolution
Price tag makes it one of the best midrange smart displays on the market
Physical camera shutter
Cons
The interface isn't as smooth or easy to use as on Google's Nest Hubs
You can't call up YouTube videos by voice
In Amazon's Echo Show 8, you get an 8-inch screen with the best resolution of any Echo Show yet, a camera shutter and all the smarts of previous Amazon smart displays. The Echo Show 8 has a built-in Alexa speaker. That means you can use this smart display to ask your Alexa digital assistant to do your bidding, whether that be asking it to play music, relay the weather or just tell you a joke. Since it's a smart display, it also offers advanced compatibility with Alexa-enabled security cameras. Ask Alexa to "answer the front door" when someone rings your Ring Peephole Cam and you can see the live feed on your Show 8 -- and actually talk to the person, straight from the smart display.  ... Show more
Get it now
$130 at Amazon
$130 at The Home Depot
Learn more
Amazon Echo Show 8 (2nd gen) review
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best Alexa-compatible smart lock
August Wi-Fi Smart Lock
Pros
Small, sleek design
Built-in Wi-Fi
Cons
Expensive price
Shorter battery life
August's Wi-Fi Smart Lock is a great smart lock. It retrofits to most standard deadbolts, so you don't have to deal with a complicated installation. The built-in Wi-Fi makes it possible to access and control your smart lock remotely via the Android or iOS app without needing an August Connect module. As its spot on this list indicates, it's an Alexa-compatible device, too -- that means you can lock and unlock your door from an Alexa-enabled smart speaker using your voice.The lock also comes with an open/close sensor -- called DoorSense -- that attaches to the door in question. That way, the app not only tells you whether the door is locked or unlocked but also if the door is open or closed. That's a nice touch of functionality from such a straightforward smart lock.  ... Show more
Get it now
$149 at Amazon
$199 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Size
2.8 x 2.8 x 2.75 inchesLock Type
Biometric, DeadboltSpecial Features
App control; auto locks and unlocksCompatibility
Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple HomeKit, Samsung SmartThingsPrice
$200
Learn more
August Wi-Fi Smart Lock review
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best Alexa-compatible smart thermostat
Amazon Smart Thermostat
Pros
Budget-friendly
Seamless integration with Alexa app and voice commands
Responsive touchscreen interface
Cons
Doesn't work with Google Assistant or Apple HomeKit
If you don't have a C-wire, requires C-wire adapter
No remote temperature sensor
Amazon's $80 Smart Thermostat is hard to beat in terms of value, and that's at full price. For starters, the thermostat works as well with Alexa as you'd expect given that it's an Amazon product, so if you have an Echo speaker or Echo Show display, you should be in good shape to get the best value out of the device. Even for those who don't, the thermostat offers a simple, straightforward design that looks great on a wall and feels great to use, and it could even save you as much as $50 per year with its energy-saving settings.  ... Show more
Get it now
$64 at Amazon
$80 at Best Buy
Learn more
Amazon Smart Thermostat review
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best Alexa-compatible smart bulb
Wyze Bulb
Pros
Affordable
Many smart home integration options
Useful features like scenes, shortcuts and a vacation mode
Cons
Doesn't dim as much as some competitors
Doesn't support Siri voice controls via Apple HomeKit
Limited app functionality
Wyze is well known for its super-cheap prices, and its Wi-Fi connected smart lightbulb is no different. If you're looking for a smart light that works with voice commands, this is the best Alexa-enabled one out there. A two-pack of standard, white-light bulbs can be had for just $17, but the fully color-changing versions only cost a few bucks more at $27 for a two-pack, which is worth it even if you'll only break those colors out on rare holiday occasions. Either way, you're getting a 2-pack of Alexa-compatible bulbs that connect directly to your home internet network via Wi-Fi. Screw them in, connect via the Wyze app and you're ready to go.Colors aside, the Wyze bulbs have a great range of white light, from candlelight-like to daylight-white. Plus, despite the low price, they produce better brightness than many bulbs that sell for more.  ... Show more
Get it now
$46 at Amazon
Learn more
Wyze Bulb review
Hobie Crase/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Hobie Crase/CNET
Best Alexa-compatible DIY home security system
Ring Alarm Pro
Pros
Fantastic value
Reliable security features
Backup Wi-Fi, local processing and storage
Cons
Setup instructions aren't always clear
While other DIY home security systems work well with Alexa, the Ring Alarm Pro offers excellent performance with unique built-in Alexa integrations. With the higher-end Ring Protect Plus subscription, you even get Alexa's security feature -- Guard Plus -- packaged in for free. That means Alexa will listen for glass breaking or footsteps while you're away and will alert you if it hears anything fishy.Beyond its Alexa integrations, the Ring Alarm Plus offers fantastic features, like a built-in Wi-Fi 6 gateway, backup internet, local processing and storage (a first for Ring), cellular backup, professional monitoring and more. A fourteen-piece system costs $380, and subscriptions range from $4 per month to $20 per month -- the most expensive of which still undercuts some of the best competition. In short, this system is a fantastic value.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$300 at Best Buy
$300 at Ring
Specs & Configurations
Installation
DIY installationContract Required
NoVoice Assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google AssistantAdditional Fees
24/7 professional monitoring fee, recording feesService Bundles
N/A
Learn more
Ring Alarm Pro review
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best Alexa-compatible smart plug
TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini
Pros
Keeps other outlets free
Works with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa
Offers plenty of scheduling and timing options
Cons
Not compatible with Apple HomeKit
The TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini is a big name for a tiny smart plug that costs about $20. A smart plug like this one connects via your Wi-Fi connection directly to a wall outlet and converts your non-smart lamps, fans and other gadgets into smart devices.Use the TP-Link app to connect and control devices -- or enlist Amazon Alexa and use voice control. Say, "Alexa, turn on the reading lamp" to get the Plug Mini smart plug to control the devices connected to it with ease.  ... Show more
Get it now
$15 at Amazon
$17 at Walmart
Learn more
TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini review
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best smart home controller
Amazon Echo Hub
Pros
Affordable
Easy to setup and use
Many integrations
Doubles as a smart display
Cons
Camera live view limitations
Speakers aren't very good
There aren't many smart home controllers available for the average smart home user to pick up and start using. The ones out there tend to be pricey and require a fair bit of know-how to set up. This is partially what makes the Amazon Echo Hub such a great device. For the full price of $180, the tablet-looking product may seem pricey compared to the Fire tablets Amazon offers -- until you realize the genius simplicity of the Echo Hub.It's the software interface that makes using the Echo Hub so easy and intuitive. Amazon brought the smart home controls that are available on its smart displays to the smart home controller and made them better. With a customizable home screen, quick toggles, easy-to-understand buttons and more, the Amazon Echo Hub can do almost anything for your smart home.I do wish the speakers were better and you could put more than just Ring cameras into the live widgets, but the Echo Hub is a great central location to control your smart home. Plus, it can also act like Amazon's Echo Show smart display and Echo smart speakers, too.  ... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
$180 at Best Buy
$180 at Target
Factors to consider when choosing an Alexa device
PrivacyAmazon's voice assistant makes it easier to control the devices in your home, set timers and find out how long your commute to the office will take. Privacy has become an increasing concern as smart speakers and displays grow in popularity. Reports that Amazon keeps transcripts of your voice conversations, even after you've deleted the Alexa audio recordings, led to concerns over user privacy. Sen. Chris Coons, a Democrat from Delaware, wrote a letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos seeking answers about Amazon's Alexa user data and how it's stored.Amazon has since introduced the "Alexa, delete everything I said today" feature. The tech giant says it's also working on new ways for customers to delete their transcripts. For example, the Echo Show 8 comes with a built-in camera shutter, unlike earlier Echo Show devices.Amazon isn't alone in its privacy concerns. Its subsidiary Ring and other major tech companies such as Facebook and Google have faced their own privacy issues, prompting questions about data usage. Amazon and others appear to be working to win back consumer trust, but it is still an important factor to consider.Type of smart home deviceThere are literally thousands of Alexa and Alexa-compatible devices that you can buy on the market right now, from smart speakers and home security devices to smart lighting and smart thermostats. Before you make a purchase, consider how you plan to use your Alexa device so you can be sure to find the one that best suits your needs.Installation and set upAmazon makes installation seamless with the help of Alexa voice commands. Plus, many of the best Alexa and Alexa-compatible devices offer a companion app to help with installation and controlling the device. Before buying an Alexa device, consider your other smart home devices, too. It wouldn't necessarily make a ton of sense to buy an Alexa device if your smart home is already made up of an ecosystem of Google Assistant or Siri devices.PriceCost is always a factor. The good news is most of these Alexa devices are budget-friendly, ranging from $30 to $300, depending on the device. How we test Amazon Alexa devices
Hands-on testing is critical to the CNET mission. No matter what device or product we're evaluating, we'll always be transparent about the unbiased and unmatched testing standards that went into our review.Since Alexa-compatible devices are all different in type and ability, and since testing home security devices is very different from testing smart displays, there wasn't one single testing method to build this list. You can trust that our CNET experts have spent hours doing in-depth testing with each product.In general, we always test for setup and installation, design, extra features, performance and value before determining a verdict. For more information, you can explore our guide on how we test home security systems and services, and how we test home security cameras and video doorbells. Other Amazon Alexa devices we tested
There are thousands of Alexa and Alexa-compatible devices on the market and we've tested most of them. Considering the magnitude and volume of devices, we can't list every single one here. We can direct you to our other best lists with devices that are compatible with Alexa. Here are a few to start:Best smart speakersBest smart displaysBest smart plugsBest home security camerasBest home security systemsBest smart thermostatsBest smart locksBest DIY home security systems Amazon Alexa device FAQs
Is Alexa the best voice assistant?
Today, the race is extremely close between Google Assistant and Amazon's Alexa. Apple's Siri is on the board but in a solid third place when it comes to reliability, knowledge and comprehension of human requests. Overall, we give the edge to Google Assistant for its superior cadence, naturalistic tone and ability to understand (and answer) questions and follow-up queries consistently. It's close enough that you can safely invest in either Google Assistant or Alexa based on other preferences like speaker style, devices and compatibility with other popular smart home products.Alexa is nearly as good as Google Assistant, so you really can't go wrong no matter which assistant you choose. You'll learn its quirks and how to interact with your assistant to coax the best responses and helpful information. For fun, here's our deep dive into each assistant's "personality."
Show more
What is the difference between Amazon Echo and Alexa?
Amazon Alexa is a voice assistant that can control your smart home devices via voice commands. Simply saying things like, "Alexa, turn down the lights" can dim all your smart lights at once. The voice assistant also answers questions and completes simple virtual tasks.On the other hand, the Echo is a line of Amazon smart speakers, the actual hardware rather than a service.
Show more
What is Alexa good for?
Alexa is the main way you control all of your Amazon Echo and Alexa-compatible smart home products. Alexa can do an extraordinary array of simple tasks, answer questions and respond to commands. There are over 200 Alexa voice commands available right now and we've broken them all down here. In general, Alexa is available to answer quick questions, play music, control your smart home or TV, set timers, conduct calls and write messages, purchase items off Amazon and even play games.
Show more
About the Author
David Priest Former editor David Priest Former editor
David Priest is an award-winning writer and editor who formerly covered home security for CNET.
Read full bio
Also written by
Macy Meyer Writer IIAlso written by
Chris Wedel Home Tech Editor
Smart Home Guides
Smart Home
Best Smart Lights
Best LED Floodlight
Best Alexa Devices
Best Smart Garage Door Opener Controller
Generator vs. Battery
Best Indoor Smart Gardens
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Best Smart Home Devices
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Apple Homekit Devices
Best Google Assistant & Nest Device
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.