Fresh to Dried Herb Conversion: A Guide to Using Herbs
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
48 Basil Recipes to Celebrate Summer’s Freshest Herb
33 Types of Herbs and Spices and How to Cook with Them
26 Chives Recipes: Fresh and Delicious Ways to Use This Herb
45 Fresh Mint Recipes To Help You Use Up That Bumper Crop
32 Fresh Rosemary Recipes
65 Recipes to Make with Fresh Herbs
28 Recipes You Can Make with Fresh Thyme
How to Dry Fresh Herbs
How Much Turkey Do You Need Per Person?
Fresh Herb Butter
Herb Mix for Rice
Herb Mix for Dipping Oil
How to Add Fresh Herbs to Your Salad—and Why You Should
How Long Do Fresh Herbs Last in the Fridge?
When It Comes to Eating Turmeric, How Much Is Just Right?
Fresh Herb Rub
This Is the Best Way to Keep Your Herbs Fresh
Fresh Herb Dip
9 Smart Ways to Save on Herbs and Spices
French Herb Seasoning
marrakeshh/Getty Images
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Herbs & Spices
Fresh to Dried Herb Conversion: How Much to Use in Recipes
marrakeshh/Getty Images
By
Lindsay D. Mattison
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 30, 2024
Save
Saved
Saving
If you don't have fresh herbs on hand, use this fresh to dried herb conversion to maintain your favorite recipe's flavor profile.
Fresh herbs have the ability to transform a regular dish into an exceptional experience. A fragrant basil leaf can take a tomato platter to the next level, and a sprinkle of freshly chopped tarragon will breathe new life into a simple vinaigrette. While dried herbs may lack the vibrant qualities of fresh ones, they make up for it with their convenience. If you’re not growing herbs indoors, shelf-stable dried herbs may be your best bet in winter.
The Fresh to Dried Herb Conversion Rate
Taste of Home, Getty Images
Dried herbs are a concentrated form of fresh herbs, so you don’t need to use the same quantity when converting recipes. As a general rule of thumb, we like to use a 3:1 ratio of fresh to dried herbs. For example, if your recipe calls for one tablespoon of fresh oregano, use one teaspoon of dried oregano instead. (This is easy to remember if you know your cooking measurement conversions, where three teaspoons equal one tablespoon.)
Of course, this conversion is just a starting point. Dried herbs can be sold in several different forms—garlic can be powdered, granulated, minced or diced—so you may need to adjust the ratio accordingly.
For example, rubbed sage consists of whole dried sage leaves while ground sage is a fine powder. The whole form takes up more volume in a measuring spoon, so a 3:1 ratio might be spot-on. Ground sage, on the other hand, will be more potent in the same quantity, so you may want to use a 2:1 or 1:1 ratio.
The same goes for freeze-dried herbs, which retain more of their original flavor and texture compared to conventionally dried herbs. You may find a lower ratio works best with these types of dried herbs, so start small and taste as you cook to find the right conversion rate.
Cooking with Dried vs. Fresh Herbs
The most important distinction between fresh and dried herbs involves timing. The flavor and aroma are immediately apparent in fresh herbs, so they should be added near the end of the cooking process. Otherwise, the flavor can dissipate as the dish cooks.
Dried herbs, on the other hand, take longer to release their flavor. It’s best to add them early in the cooking process. Blooming dried herbs in a little hot oil or adding them to the recipe while cooking onions and garlic goes a long way to bring out dried flavors.
There are also times when a substitution simply won’t work. Dried basil wouldn’t be the same on a caprese salad or margherita pizza, where the whole, fresh basil leaves are an important part of the eating experience.
Dried herbs don’t work as well in bright, herbaceous recipes like pesto or chimichurri, either. In these instances, we recommend sticking to fresh herbs. Keep them alive and vibrant for up to a month by storing herbs upright in a mason jar filled with water, just like flowers. Once they start to look wilted and sad, freeze herbs in water or oil for use in soups or sauces.
Author
Lindsay D. Mattison
Lindsay has been a food writer, recipe developer and product tester for seven years. She’s a culinary school graduate who specializes in sustainable food and seasonal ingredients. She draws on her professional chef background to develop recipes and help home cooks gain confidence in the kitchen. When Lindsay isn’t writing, you’ll find her coo...
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box