Celje Castle - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
Toggle History subsection
1.1
Early history
1.2
Lords of Sanneck and
Counts of Celje
1.3
Holy Roman Empire
1.4
19th and 20th centuries
1.5
21st century
2
References
3
Sources
4
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Celje Castle
11 languages
DanskEuskaraItalianoMagyarМакедонскиNorsk bokmålPolskiРусскийSlovenščinaไทย中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
Coordinates: 46°13′11″N 15°16′18″E﻿ / ﻿46.21972°N 15.27167°E﻿ / 46.21972; 15.27167
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Ancient castle in Slovenia
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Celje Castle" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Celje Castle from Pečovnik (to the southwest)
The panorama of Celje Castle from its great tower
Celje Castle (Slovene: Celjski grad), also known as Celje Upper Castle (Celjski zgornji grad) or Old Castle (Stari grad), is a castle ruin in Celje, Slovenia, formerly the seat of the Counts of Celje. It stands on three hills to the southeast of Celje, where the river Savinja meanders into the Laško valley. Today, the castle is in the process of being restored. It was once the largest fortification on Slovenian territory.
History[edit]
Celje Upper Castle
Early history[edit]
The earliest reference to Celje Castle dates from 1322 and calls it “purch Cylie”. Later, the castle was known by various names, including “vest Cili” (1341), “castrum Cilie” (1451), “gsloss Obercili” (1468). It is noteworthy that the name “Obercili” - Upper Celje - only appears after the Counts of Celje had died out. Its original name was “grad Celje” (Celje Castle).
The first fortified building on the site (a Romanesque palace) was built in the first half of the 13th century by the Counts of Heunburg from Carinthia on the stony outcrop on the western side of the ridge where the castle stands. It had five sides, or four plus the southern side, which was a natural defence. The first written records of the castle date back to between 1125 and 1137; it was probably built by Count Gunter. In the western section of the castle, there was a building with several floors. Remains of the walls of this palatium have survived. In the eastern section, there was an enclosed courtyard with large water reservoirs. The eastern wall, which protects the castle from its most exposed side, was around three metres thicker than the rest of the curtain wall. The wall was topped with a parapet and protected walkway. This was typical of Ministerialis castles of the time.
Lords of Sanneck and
Counts of Celje[edit]
The first castle was probably burned and destroyed in the fighting between the Lords of Sanneck and the Lords of Auffenstein. The gateway was later moved from the northern side by freemen loyal to the Lords of Sanneck. They gave the castle a new curtain wall and reinforced this with a tower on the northern side, which guarded the entrance to the inner ward, sometime before 1300. The new wall reached from a natural cliff in the east to the remains of the earlier wall in the northeast. The entrance was moved to the southern side, where it still is today.
In 1333, the castle came into the possession of the Lords of Sanneck, who from 1341 onward were the Counts of Celje. They set about transforming the fortress into a comfortable living quarter and their official residence. Around 1400, they added a four-storey tower which was later called Friderikov stolp (Frederick's tower, from bergfrid, modern German Bergfried, the term for the central tower of a castle in the Middle Ages). On the eastern side of the courtyard, there was a tall, three-story residential tower, which is the best preserved section of the castle after Friderikov stolp. The main residential building (a palatium), which also had rooms for women, stood however in the western section of the castle. This part of the castle ends at the narrow outer ward and is in a state of disrepair. On the southern side of the palatium, there was a tower, known as Andrejev stolp (Andrew's tower), after the chapel on the ground floor, which was dedicated to Saint Andrew. In the Middle Ages, the castle walls were impenetrable; an attacker would have had to rely on starving the defenders into submission, but a hidden passageway led from the castle to a nearby granary. The Counts of Celje stopped living in the castle in this period, but they stationed a castellan with an armed entourage here.
During an earthquake in 1348, part of the Romanesque palace and the rock on which it stood were destroyed. The ruined section was rebuilt and relocated towards the bailey. In the 15th century, the outer ward was extended on the eastern side of the ridge as far as the rocky outcrop. Here, the wall connected with a powerful, five-sided tower. In the second half of the 16th century, the castle was once again renovated. The walls in the inner and outer wards were made taller, and the bailey was renovated. The modern sections of the walls feature Renaissance-era balistraria.
Holy Roman Empire[edit]
The first imperial caretaker, Krištof pl. Ungnad, was named in 1461. The second, Jurij pl. Apfaltrer, was named just two years later. The castle entered the care of Andrej pl. Hohenwart in 1470. When he took it over, he swore to take good care of it and to keep it in a good condition. He carried out this service until his death in 1503. He was succeeded as castle caretaker by Jakob pl. Landau, the government administrator in Upper and Lower Swabia. Landau obtained the position from Emperor Maximilian I, who was at the time still the King of the Romans, for having lent him 10,000 crowns. Landau was still castle caretaker in 1514. Two years later, Bernard Raunacher briefly held this position, but the emperor ordered him to hand authority to Gašper Herbst and to make do with the income generated by Rudolfswert (later Novo Mesto). Other caretakers followed, most of whom were at the same time vicedominus and the administrator of various taxes. The castle's importance as a fortress rapidly gave way to its economic role.
Celje Castle was not only the most important castle in Slovenia, but in the entire eastern Alps. It covered an area of almost 5500 m2. From the ruins that remain and from depictions of the castle that have survived, it is possible to paint a detailed picture of how it once looked. Several new techniques were employed in the castle's architectural development, which were the model for other castles in the region under Celje's influence.
The castle began to fall into disrepair shortly after losing its strategic importance. Georg Matthäus Vischer’s depiction of the castle from 1681 shows that Friderikov stolp no longer had a roof at the end of the 17th century. During the renovation of the lower castle (the section closest to the town) in 1748, the castle’s tiled roof was removed. When Count Gaisruck bought the castle in 1755, he removed the roof truss as well. The best stones were then re-used in the construction of the Novo Celje Mansion between Petrovče and Žalec. From this time onward, it was no longer possible to live in the castle, and it slowly turned into a complete ruin. The last residents left the site in 1795.
In 1803, the farmer Andrej Gorišek bought the castle and began to use the site as a quarry.
19th and 20th centuries[edit]
In 1846, the governor of the Styria, Count Wickenburg, bought the ruins and donated them to the Styrian estates. In 1871, interest in the ruins began to take hold and in 1882 the Celje museum society began efforts to restore the castle, which continue to this day. During the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the authorities in Maribor left control over the ruins to the local municipality, which made great contributions to the castle's preservation. During World War II, the ruins were abandoned, but reconstruction efforts continued after the war. In the corners of the Friderikov stolp, cement blocks were used to replace missing stones. A proper parking lot was also created in front of the entrance to the castle. On the northern side, the wall was knocked through to create a new side entrance to meet a new route that had been built there (Pelikanova pot).[citation needed] From 1972 Tatjana Bregant led archaeological excavations at the Old Castle site.[1]
21st century[edit]
The Celje tourist board holds an event entitled "Pod zvezdami Celjanov" ("Under the stars of the House of Celje") at Celje Castle in late summer every year, which features performances and representations of life in the Middle Ages. Music concerts also take place in the castle. Celje Castle is visited by approximately 60,000 people every year.[2] An annual cultural entertainment event, Veronikini večeri, which is named after the character Veronika in the Slovenian opera Veronika Deseniška, also takes place in the castle.[3] The evening features various concerts, theatre performances and other entertainment, and each year the organiser, in collaboration with the municipality of Celje, awards the Veronikina nagrada (prize) for poetry and the Zlatnik poezije (gold medal for poetry). The Veronikini večeri event has been taking place since 1996 and the Veronikina nagrada has equally been awarded since then. The Zlatnik poezije has been awarded since 2004.
References[edit]
^ "Bregant, Tatjana (1932–2002) - Slovenska biografija". www.slovenska-biografija.si. Retrieved 19 March 2023.
^ "Znamenitost tedna: Stari grad Celje". Archived from the original on 8 June 2011. Retrieved 28 June 2009.
^ http://www.veronikini-veceri.si/press_kit/veronikini_veceri.doc[permanent dead link]
Sources[edit]
Krones Franz (Gradec 1883). Die Freien von Saneck und ihre Chronik als Grafen von Cilli, 2. Teil, Die Cillier Chronik, (prevod Ludovik Modest Golia, Kronika grofov Celjskih, (Založba obzorja, Maribor 1972)), Celje: Kulturna skupnost v Celju.
Orožen, Janko (1971). Zgodovina Celja in okolice, 1. del, v Celjski zbornik, Celje: Kulturna skupnost v Celju.
Stopar, Aleš (2006). Stari grad Celje, Starožitnosti: vodnik Pokrajinskega muzeja Celje; 2, Celje: Pokrajinski muzej.
Stopar, Ivan (1972). Stari grad nad Celjem. Maribor: Založba Obzorja.
Stopar, Ivan (1977). Razvoj srednjeveške grajske arhitekture na Slovenskem Štajerskem. Ljubljana: Slovenska matica.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Celje Castle.
Official website
vteUrban Municipality of CeljeAdministrative seatCeljeThe location of the City Municipality of CeljeView of Celje from Celje CastleDistricts
Center
Dečkovo Naselje
Dolgo Polje
Gaberje
Hudinja
Karel Destovnik Kajuh
Lava
Nova Vas
Savinja
Slavko Šlander
Landmarks
Celje Airport
Celje Castle
Grmada
Celje Hall
Iron Mansion
Jošt Mill
Kalvarija
Celje Lodge
Lower Celje Castle
Marian Column
Minorite Monastery
National Hall
Old County
People's Savings Bank
Celje Post Office
Prothasi Mansion
Slovene National Theatre
Stari Pisker Prison
Celje Railway Station
Celje Town Hall
Celje town walls
War and Peace (monument)
Celje Water Tower
Local communities
Aljažev Hrib
Ljubečna
Medlog
Ostrožno
Pod Gradom
Škofja Vas
Šmartno v Rožni Dolini
Teharje
Trnovlje
Settlements outside the urban center
Brezova
Bukovžlak
Dobrova
Glinsko
Gorica pri Šmartnem
Jezerce pri Šmartnem
Košnica pri Celju
Lahovna
Leskovec
Lipovec pri Škofji Vasi
Ljubečna
Lοče
Lokrovec
Lopata
Medlog
Osenca
Otemna
Pečovnik
Pepelno
Prekorje
Rožni Vrh
Runtole
Rupe
Šentjungert
Škofja Vas
Slance
Slatina v Rožni Dolini
Šmarjeta pri Celju
Šmartno v Rožni Dolini
Šmiklavž pri Škofji Vasi
Teharje
Tremerje
Trnovlje pri Celju
Vrhe
Začret
Zadobrova
Žepina
Zvodno
Former settlements
Babno
Breg
Čret
Lava
Lisce
Ložnica pri Celju
Miklavžev Hrib
Nova Vas
Ostrožno
Polule
Spodnja Dobrova
Spodnja Hudinja
Spodnji Medlog
Zagrad
Zavode
Zavodna
Zgornja Hudinja
Zgornji Medlog
Culture
Counts of Celje
First Grammar School
Roman Catholic Diocese of Celje
Notable people
Emerik Bernard
Jolanda Čeplak
Anica Černej
Romana Jordan Cizelj
Janez Drnovšek
Janez Drozg
Ivan Kovačič Efenka
Thea Gammelin
Cvetko Golar
Damjana Golavšek
Andrej Hieng
Stane Jagodič
Jelko Kacin
Alma Karlin
Brane Mihajlovič Kosta
Janez K. Lapajne
Janez Lapajne
Vladimir Levstik
Darinka Pavletič–Lorenčak
Stanko Lorger
Matija Lubanus
Vita Mavrič
Drago Medved
Miloš Mikeln
Peter Muhič
Vatroslav Oblak
Janko Orožen
Oto Pestner
Rok Praznik
Tomaž Prelokar
Brikcij Preprost
Franc Purg
Andreja Rihter
Fran Roš
Lojze Rozman
August Friderik Seebacher
Josip Tominšek
Beno Udrih
Bina Štampe Žmavc
Urška Žolnir
vte Slovenia - Castles, Fortresses, and Palaces in SloveniaSlovenia
Ajman Castle
Baumkircher Tower
Bela Peč Castle
Betnava Mansion
Bizeljsko Castle
Bled Castle
Bogenšperk Castle
Bokalce Castle
Borl Castle
Branik Castle
Brdo Castle
Brežice Castle
Celje Castle
Gewerkenegg Castle
Gornja Radgona Castle
Gracar Tower
Gradac Castle
Haasberg Castle
Ig Castle
Jablje Castle
Jakobski Dol Castle
Kacenštajn Castle
Kalec Castle
Kieselstein Castle
Koprivnik Castle
Kostel Castle
Kozjak Castle
Kravjek Castle
Krško Castle
Krumperk Castle
Leskovec Castle
Leutemberg Castle
Lihtenberk Castle
Lipnica Castle
Lož Castle
Ljubljana Castle
Majšperk Castle
Maribor Castle
Maribor Water Tower
Medija Castle
Metlika Castle
Miren Castle
Mokrice Castle
Olimje Castle
Ortnek Castle
Pišece Castle
Podsmreka Castle
Polhov Gradec Castle
Predjama Castle
Ptuj Castle
Račji Dvor Mansion
Raka Castle
Ravne Castle
Ruard Manor
Slovenska Bistrica Castle
Šteberk Castle
Strmol Mansion
Strmol Castle
Velenje Castle
Vipava Castle
Žovnek Castle
Castles in Slovenia
Authority control databases VIAFGND
46°13′11″N 15°16′18″E﻿ / ﻿46.21972°N 15.27167°E﻿ / 46.21972; 15.27167
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Celje_Castle&oldid=1312537183"
Categories: Castles in Styria (Slovenia)Buildings and structures completed in the 13th centuryBuildings and structures in CeljeRuined castles in SloveniaTourist attractions in CeljeHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from November 2016Articles with permanently dead external linksPages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2023All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from September 2025Articles containing Slovene-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2023Commons category link is on WikidataCoordinates on Wikidata
This page was last edited on 21 September 2025, at 06:34 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Celje Castle
11 languages
Add topic