Never Mind the iPhone Pro: The iPhone 17 Is Probably All You Need - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
Never Mind the iPhone Pro: The iPhone 17 Is Probably All You Need
Review: Long-overdue upgrades help to close the gap between Apple's entry-level iPhone and its pricier Pro models.
Article updated on September 24, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
9.1/ 10
SCORE iPhone 17
$829 at Apple
Pros
Upgraded 1-120Hz display
New camera features
Longer battery life
Faster charging
Cons
Minimal design updates to last year
Apple Intelligence can still feel like a work in progress
Table of Contents
Never Mind the iPhone Pro: The iPhone 17 Is Probably All You Need
iPhone 17 (finally) gets big display upgrades
iPhone 17 is more durable -- and colorful
Geekbench v.6.0
3DMark Wild Life Extreme
iOS 26 brings more customization
iPhone 17 camera gets sharper
iPhone 17 battery
Final thoughts: Should you buy the iPhone 17?
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max
How we test phones
For the past couple of weeks, I've been carrying two phones: the iPhone 17 and the iPhone Air. And while the latter has drummed up more fanfare among my curious friends and colleagues, it's the iPhone 17 that strikes me as the more all-encompassing device, ticking the key boxes without costing a fortune -- at least compared with the rest of Apple's new lineup.It's easy to overlook the iPhone 17, especially in a year when the ultra-slim iPhone Air and vivid orange iPhone 17 Pro have stolen the spotlight. But advancements in the iPhone 17's display, cameras and battery have helped this entry-level device feel like it's narrowing the chasm separating it from its pricey Pro counterparts. These subtle upgrades add up to notable improvements that make the baseline model well worth your attention.
Watch this: iPhone Air Review: A Joy to Hold, at a Cost
10:06
The iPhone 17 starts at $829 (or $799 if you activate with a carrier), which means there hasn't been a price increase over last year's model. In fact, you're technically getting more bang for your buck with the iPhone 17 since it starts with a higher 256GB storage option, replacing the 128GB starting point on the iPhone 16. Here's how the iPhone 17 held up over several days of my scrolling, snapping and yapping (I'm getting that trademarked). The phone is available to buy now, and you can also check out my in-depth review of the $999 iPhone Air.
At last: 120Hz displays on the baseline iPhones. CNETiPhone 17 (finally) gets big display upgradesThe design updates this year are (once again) minimal. Despite the similar appearance of the iPhone 17 and 16, the newer model has a slightly larger frame and a 6.3-inch display, compared with the 6.1-inch display on last year's phone. The bezels are impressively thin, especially when compared with a phone like the Google Pixel 10, which helps content viewing feel more immersive. I've never been more excited about the arrival of a 1-120Hz display, but I audibly exclaimed "Yes, finally!" when Apple announced it's extending that functionality to its non-Pro phones. At long last, I can enable the always-on display on a baseline iPhone and peer at the time and my notifications without waking the screen. It's a feature I frequently use to check on my arriving DoorDash orders or Uber rides, and to quickly see if I've missed any calls or texts. Better late than never, I suppose. The iPhone 17 also gets a higher 3,000-nit peak brightness and an anti-reflective coating that makes it easier to see in the bright outdoors. I didn't have any issues looking at my screen even in the glaring sunlight.  Altogether, these display upgrades help the iPhone 17 feel less like a step down from the top-of-the-line iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max and bring it on par with its baseline counterparts that have long featured that adaptive refresh rate, like the Google Pixel 10 and Samsung Galaxy S25.
Here is the iPhone 17 in sage (left) and lavender. CNETiPhone 17 is more durable -- and colorfulThe iPhone 17's aluminum frame has a satisfying matte texture. It carries over the color on the phone's back glass all along the sides for a cohesive appearance. I have the iPhone 17 in lavender, which may be one of my favorite hues of any phone I've used. It's a gentle shade that's easy on the eyes, with a cloudy-white soft undertone. I checked out the other colors -- black, white, sage and mist blue -- at Apple Park during the fall iPhone event, and each was just as pleasing to the eye.A Ceramic Shield 2 display offers three times better scratch resistance, according to Apple. That's welcome news for me, as I somehow have a tendency to etch into my phones' displays. So far, though, I'm happy to report no scuffs or scratches, even without a case or screen protector.One key advantage the iPhone 17 has over the pricier iPhone Air is its dual-speaker system, which delivers more balanced sound. The Air, by contrast, has just a single top speaker, which can make for a somewhat lopsided listening experience. It's one way the baseline model outshines the flashier Air, and one reason why I prefer reaching for the iPhone 17 when I want to watch something, despite the slightly smaller display.But, as per usual, the iPhone 17 packs a less powerful processor than its counterparts: an A19 chip, rather than the A19 Pro on the iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max. In my experience, that hasn't led to any noticeable differences in how videos or games look on the baseline 17 versus the iPhone Air. Benchmark tests for the CPU in Geekbench 6 place the iPhone 17 above the iPhone 16 Pro Max, as well as the full iPhone 15 lineup. In a graphics test using 3DMark's Wild Life Extreme, the iPhone 17 exceeded the performance of the entire iPhone 16 series, but was topped by the Galaxy S25 lineup. Check out the graphs below for more specifics. (It's worth noting that these scores are largely indicative of future performance and longevity.) Geekbench v.6.0
Apple iPhone 17
3,612 9,180Apple iPhone Air
3,554 9,057Apple iPhone 16 Pro Max
3,450 8,460Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max
2,947 7,364Samsung Galaxy S25
2,999 9,604Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
3,053 9,707
Single-core
Multi-core
Note: Longer bars indicate better performance
3DMark Wild Life Extreme
Apple iPhone 17
4,885Apple iPhone Air
4,295Apple iPhone 16 Pro Max
4,547Apple iPhone 15 Pro Max
4,193Samsung Galaxy S25
6,496Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
6,950
Note: Longer bars indicate better performance
iOS 26 brings more customizationThe iPhone 17 comes with iOS 26 on board, which includes the new Liquid Glass design. After a bit of adjustment, I've grown fond of how clean the interface looks. The more translucent controls let you see more content across the screen. You can go all-in on the new look and make your app icons clear as well, but that's a step too far for me.Group texts get an upgrade with the option to add fun backgrounds, and you can conduct polls to simplify planning hangouts. Old habits die hard, though, and it may take some time for me and all my friends to remember there's an easier way to decide where to grab dinner. It's a minor detail, but I'm enjoying the option to expand the height of the time on the lock screen and watch it squish as notifications roll in. The Spatial Scene setting gives your wallpaper a three-dimensional effect as you move your phone -- so my Hogwarts lock screen looks a little more alive.I don't often find myself on calls or text threads with people who don't speak languages I know, but if the need arises, especially during travels, Live Translation will automatically translate what someone is saying over voice calling, FaceTime and iMessage. There's a slight lag when I use the automated voice translation on calls, and it can be a bit awkward to hear it speak over the person on the other line, but it's still a neat capability. The feature isn't quite as advanced as a similar capability on the Pixel 10, which uses AI to mimic the speaker's voice.And while I'm still bummed Google's Circle to Search has yet to arrive on iPhones, an update to Apple's Visual Intelligence feature introduces a similar capability. When you take a screenshot, you can now ask ChatGPT for more information about what's on your screen, or you can squiggle on something to see relevant links and more information from platforms such as Google, Etsy and Poshmark. I'm glad there's a feature on the iPhone that's somewhat reminiscent of Circle to Search, but it's still not as intuitive. It seems odd to have to take a screenshot to learn more about something in a social media post, rather than simply holding down the home button to trigger Circle to Search. Plus, there are one too many steps to save a screenshot, now that iOS 26 defaults to also having you tick a box in a new preview screen to add something to your Photos. (I took the liberty of going into Settings > General > Screen Capture and turning off Full-Screen Previews, so I can go back to the old ways of saving screenshots instantaneously.)
The iPhone 17 has a wide and ultrawide camera, which are both 48 megapixels.  Abrar Al-Heeti/Zooey Liao/CNETiPhone 17 camera gets sharperUnlike the iPhone Air's solo rear camera, the iPhone 17 packs two rear cameras: a 48-megapixel wide-angle camera and a 48-megapixel ultrawide. That's an upgrade over the 12-megapixel ultrawide camera on the iPhone 16. It's interesting to have more photo-taking flexibility on a less expensive iPhone model, since the iPhone Air can't take 0.5x photos or Cinematic mode videos. It's another way this baseline device makes a case for itself. The lack of a telephoto camera on the baseline iPhone is to be expected, though Google adding one to the entry-level Pixel 10 now has me adding that to my "dream big" iPhone wish list. (Anything's possible, right?)
There's a nice amount of detail in the bricks and carved wooden door. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
The many greens of Filoli gardens in Woodside, California, come alive in this shot. This was taken at noon when the sun was working its hardest, but the shadows and highlights are well-balanced.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
I love taking 2x portrait shots to add a little depth and added focus.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
This portrait photo does a great job showing all the details and twisting lines in this tree. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
The iPhone 17's ultrawide camera at work in this 0.5x shot. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
A standard 1x image. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
And here, the piano takes center stage at 2x zoom. Like the iPhone Air, the iPhone 17 takes 12-megapixel 2x telephoto images, which maintain a solid level of detail as you punch in. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETThe camera defaults to 24-megapixel images, and I don't really feel the need to adjust to the full 48 megapixels, since the differences seem pretty minimal (and I'd rather save on storage space). But bumping to 48 megapixels does add a bit more texture and brightness.
Here's a globe shot at 24 megapixels. There's a good amount of texture and the colors are balanced, even without resorting to a 48-megapixel image. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
It's subtle, but the 48-megapixel photo brightens up shadows throughout and makes the text a bit sharper. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETLike the rest of the iPhone 17 lineup, the entry-level model includes an 18-megapixel selfie camera with Center Stage, which automatically -- or manually, if you prefer -- shifts your shot from portrait to landscape as more people enter the frame, so you don't have to rotate your phone. As an added perk, everyone's gaze will also look more centered because the camera isn't so far off to the side. You can set this to work automatically, but since it can be a little hit-or-miss, I usually just tap the dedicated button above the shutter instead.
Enlarge Image
Center Stage flipped this selfie into a horizontal image -- without me having to turn the phone. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETDual Capture is a fun feature that lets you simultaneously record from both your front and back cameras. The end result resembles a FaceTime call, complete with a picture-in-picture rectangle of footage captured by the selfie camera. Concert videos are about to get a lot more interesting. iPhone 17 battery Apple doesn't share specific battery specs for its phones, but says the iPhone 17 has up to 30 hours of video playback, and recommends using up to a 40-watt charger.The iPhone 17 can easily last a little over a day, even after snapping photos, scrolling through social media, listening to audiobooks and music, texting and watching videos. (Apple says the iPhone 17 has up to 8 hours more of video playback compared to the iPhone 16.) Over several days, I would start with a full battery between 8:30 and 9:30 a.m. and still have around 44% to 47% battery 12 hours later. If I didn't charge my phone overnight, I'd still have around 30% to spare in the morning, which is reassuring.In CNET's 45-minute endurance test, which includes streaming, scrolling through social media, joining a video call and playing games, the iPhone 17's battery went from full to 98%. Impressively, that matches the results of the iPhone 17 Pro. (And for added comparison, the iPhone Air finished off at 95%, while the iPhone 17 Pro Max ended at 99%.)In a 3-hour streaming test over Wi-Fi, in which I watched a YouTube video in full-screen mode at full brightness (and at 1080p), the iPhone 17's battery dropped from 100% to 89%. For reference, the iPhone Air and iPhone 17 Pro dropped to 85%, while the iPhone 17 Pro Max reached 91%.An iOS 26 feature called Adaptive Power Mode is designed to help extend battery life even more by automatically adjusting your iPhone's performance based on how you're using it at that moment. That might mean lowering your display's brightness, scaling back on CPU speeds and turning off some background activities. It could also activate low power mode. It takes about a week for Adaptive Power Mode to learn your habits and kick in, and even though that timeframe has passed, I have yet to trigger it. But it's good to know it's there, and I hope it does come in clutch when I need a little extra juice.
Updates like an always-on display help the baseline iPhone feel like less of a step down from Apple's Pro models. Abrar Al-Heeti/ Zooey Liao/ CNETFinal thoughts: Should you buy the iPhone 17?The baseline iPhone is never really meant to turn heads when stacked against the rest of Apple's lineup. But a handful of notable upgrades on the iPhone 17 make it a worthy contender if you're in the market for a new device that ticks the basics. Improvements to the display and camera help the iPhone 17 feel like it's really worth that $829 price, and can make it an enticing option if you don't want to spend upwards of $1,100 on a Pro model. The dual rear camera system also makes it feel like more of a practical option if you take a lot of photos and videos than the iPhone Air, which has only one rear camera. (Unlike the Air, the iPhone 17 also supports Cinematic Videos, which I use pretty heavily.)Many of the newest features, such as Center Stage and Dual Capture, are available across Apple's latest lineup -- you won't have to cough up more cash and upgrade to the iPhone 17 Pro or Pro Max to tap into them. While Apple tends to debut new features like Dynamic Island, the Action button and the Camera Control button on Pro models before extending them to the baseline devices, the differences between the iPhone 17 and its Pro counterparts feel a little less glaring this year.If you have an iPhone 14 device or a non-Pro iPhone 15, jumping to the iPhone 17 might be a worthwhile upgrade, since you'll be able to tap into Apple Intelligence and newer hardware features such as the Camera Control button, along with the latest batch of features like Center Stage and Dual Capture. But if you're using an iPhone 16, you can probably hang tight to that a little longer.iPhone 17 vs. iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max
Apple iPhone 17Apple iPhone AirApple iPhone 17 ProApple iPhone 17 Pro Max Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.5-inch OLED; 2,736 x 1,260 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.9-inch OLED; 2,868 x 1,320 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 460ppi460ppi460ppi460ppiDimensions (inches) 5.89 x 2.81 x 0.31 in6.15 x 2.94 x 0.22 in5.91 x 2.83 x 0.34 in6.43 x 3.07 x 0.34 inDimensions (millimeters) 149.6 x 71.5 x 7.95 mm156.2 x 74.7 x 5.64 mm150.0 x 71.9 x 8.75 mm163.4 x 78.0 x 8.75 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 177 g (6.24 oz)165 g (5.82 oz)206 g (7.27 oz)233 g (8.22 oz)Mobile software iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26Camera 48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)Front-facing camera 18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixelVideo capture 4K4K4K4KProcessor Apple A19Apple A19 ProApple A19 ProApple A19 ProRAM + storage RAM N/A + 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneBattery Up to 30 hours video playback; up to 27 hours video playback (streamed)Up to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed).
Up to 40 hours video playback, up to 35 hours video playback (streamed) with iPhone Air MagSafe BatteryUp to 33 hours video playback; up to 30 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 39 hours video playback; up to 35 hours video playback (streamed).Fingerprint sensor None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)Connector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, mist blue, sage, lavender. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Apple C1X cellular modem. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: space black, cloud white, light gold, sky blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 20W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.US price starts at $829 (256GB)$999 (256GB)$1,099 (256GB)$1,199 (256GB)
How we test phonesEvery phone CNET's reviews team tests is used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions, from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily, as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever its price, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
ABRAR AL-HEETI
Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.