Best Gaming PC for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechComputing Desktops
Best Gaming PC for 2025
From budget options to not-so-cheap and beyond, our expert-tested picks for the best gaming PCs available in 2025.
Our Experts
Written by
Lori Grunin
Article updated on August 25, 2025 at 11:18 AM PDT
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats. Expertise Photography | PCs and laptops | Gaming and gaming accessories
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Factors to consider when buying a gaming PC
Size
If you want high-powered components or a motherboard with more than just a slot for a graphics card, you need a midtower or full tower case; if you don't plan on upgrading and can afford to pay for the configuration you're going to still want in three to five years, then you can go with a small form factor, or SFF, PC
Motherboard
You generally only can choose the motherboard for custom or DIY builds. The motherboard and its chipset determines the maximum possible USB ports; networking types; type and maximum amount of memory; maximum amount and type of SSD and more.
Operating system
Windows. You can certainly play games on MacOS or Linux, but far more games are developed for and supported on Windows.
Processor
Games that spawn and calculate the movements of a lot of objects or characters -- complex simulations and RTS, for example -- may lean heavily on it, but many games don't need as much power as a creator system.
Graphics
The GPU power determines render speed. The higher the resolution and use of technologies (such as raytracing or AI-based upscaling) without sacrificing frame rates, the more power and video memory (VRAM) you need.
System memory
I don't recommend any system with 8GB RAM or less -- 16GB should be your absolute minimum and many games already require that much -- but 32GB is a good bet to support games for at least another few years.
Storage
Games are getting bigger and bigger, so more storage is always better; I like at least 1TB.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Gaming desktops still play second fiddle to gaming laptops for most people, but PCs have a place in the hearts of those who want power and upgradability for now and the future. PC configurations change a lot more frequently, though, and it's hard to keep up with testing and reviews, so our current gaming PC recommendations may include previous configurations that we've reviewed. We also include configuration suggestions that we haven't specifically tested but are based on our experience with similar components.  Our Picks
Best gaming PC overall Lenovo Legion Tower 7i Gen 8 34IRZ8
Jump to details
$3,000 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for 4K gaming Velocity Micro Raptor Z95A
Jump to details
See at Velocity Micro
Jump to details
Best gaming PC with a novel design Alienware Aurora R16
Jump to details
$2,250 at Dell
Jump to details
Best midrange gaming PC HP Omen 35L
Jump to details
$1,510 at HP
Jump to details
Best Mac gaming desktop Mac Studio (2025)
Jump to details
$3,550 at B&H
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Gaming PC for 2025
What's the best gaming PC overall?
The Best Gaming PCs
Velocity Micro Raptor Z95A
HP Omen 35L
Specifications for gaming desktop test configurations
Other notable gaming PCs we've tested
Factors to consider when buying a gaming desktop
How we test gaming desktops
Gaming computer FAQs
What's the best gaming PC overall?Our pick for the best gaming desktop is the Lenovo Legion Tower 7i, thanks to its solid performance up through 4K, without costing as much as you'd usually spend. It's got some flaws -- you can't overclock the memory and it's a little light on the dust filtering -- but for a prebuilt model costing $2,220 (at the time of writing this) it's a nice balance.The Best Gaming PCs
Mark Knapp/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Mark Knapp/CNET
Best gaming PC overall
Lenovo Legion Tower 7i Gen 8 34IRZ8
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
Great 1080p and 4K performance
Looks good, and has abundant RGB lighting
Operates quietly without throttling
Cons
We'd like more USB-C ports
Limited dust filtration
Delivering good performance and 4K gaming without a sky-high price, Lenovo's midrange Legion T7i runs quietly at top speeds and looks stylish while doing so -- even without jumping to the more recent RTX 50-class GPUs. But even in 2024 we'd have expected more than one USB-C port, especially since lots of gaming accessories have been switching over, and some better dust filtering would be welcome.It's a decent gaming system and configuration that should last you a while, and there's a cheaper configuration with an RTX 4070 Ti that might also serve you well if you're looking for something reasonable from a major manufacturer.  ... Show more
Get it now
$3,000 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Desktop class
Mid Tower (34 liter)Case dimensions (WHD)
8.3 x 18.3 x 19.4 inchesProcessor tested
Intel Core i9-14900KFMemory tested
32GB (2x16GB) DDR5-4400Graphics tested
16GB NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4080 SuperStorage tested
1TB SSD
Learn more
Lenovo Legion Tower 7i Gen 8 34IRZ8 review
Add to compare
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/6
Josh Goldman/CNET
Best for 4K gaming
Velocity Micro Raptor Z95A
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
Excellent gaming performance
Tidy interior
Ample upgrade options
Cons
Considerably more expensive than DIY
So-so front connections
Our top gaming system recommendation will probably always be from a custom builder, simply because a top-end gaming PC will have a lot of upgrade options and an upgrade-friendly design, in addition to excellent performance. Even most ready-to-ship systems from custom builders have great upgradability because they're built from off-the-shelf parts. Velocity Micro is an almost 30-year veteran in the business, and while it doesn't create the glitziest gaming systems -- for that, you want builders like Maingear, Origin PC, iBuyPower and the like -- it knows how to build a top-flight gaming performer. The Raptor Z95A we tested uses some of the fastest components available (the "A" is for AMD, and there's a Z95 built around Intel CPUs) and has a clean internal layout for easy fiddling and sleek appearance.The downside: You pay for it, since they're generally more expensive compared to prebuilt PCs from the big players or building one from scratch yourself. We also aren't terribly thrilled by the dearth of front connections -- a common and frustrating issue for many desktops, and extra disappointing given the size of the PC. You can frequently compensate by using a hub for connections that aren't latency sensitive, if necessary.With enough power for your most demanding games and graphics-heavy generative AI, this Velocity Micro system has our stamp of approval. If you need something with more oomph for CPU-intensive games or AI, you should bump up to a Ryzen 9 or Intel Core Ultra 9 class of processor.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Velocity Micro
Specs & Configurations
Desktop class
Full tower (55 liter)Case dimensions (WHD)
519.3 x 18.9 x 9.25in/490 x 480 x 235 mmProcessor tested
2.5GHz AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3DMemory tested
64GB DDR5-5600Graphics tested
16GB Nvidia GeForce RTX 5080 FEStorage tested
2TB NVMe M.2 PCIe Gen 4 SSD
Learn more
Velocity Micro Raptor Z95A review
Add to compare
Mark Knapp/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Mark Knapp/CNET
Best gaming PC with a novel design
Alienware Aurora R16
8.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Slick and fairly compact design
Largely quiet even under load
Tool-free access and parts abound
Nice set of connections
Cons
Performance not up to what we expect for the money
Custom components and layout means upgrades may be a problem
Case design has the potential to suck in dust
Alienware drew a little further away from its roots in 2024, redesigning its Aurora desktop to look novel and stylish but not as out-of-this-world as it was. That allowed the company to shrink its overlarge footprint as well as introducing tool-free access and parts to what's still a fast and quiet system.But it's still relatively expensive for its configuration -- and that's before tariffs factor in whenever you decide to buy -- with a quirky, proprietary layout that may make upgrades more expensive or awkward than they might be in other systems. And the new design has unfiltered intakes, which our reviewer thinks might require above-average vigilance for you to keep under control.Though Alienware has repositioned the Aurora as its "entry" line, you still don't go to Alienware looking for bargains; it's an entry to Alienware, and you should expect to pay a little more to get its novel looks, but it's not a great choice if you want to tinker a lot or live in a dusty environment.The model we tested has subsequently been refreshed with Core Ultra CPUs and RTX 50-series GPUs and renamed simply "Aurora." I recommend the $2,150 Core Ultra 9 285, RTX 5060 Ti configuration, which is comparably priced and should deliver equivalent performance.
... Show more
Get it now
$2,250 at Dell
Specs & Configurations
Desktop class
Mid Tower (38 liter)Case dimensions
16.5 x 7.8 x 18.1 inchesProcessor tested
Intel Core i9-14900KFMemory tested
32GB DDR5-5600Graphics tested
NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4070Storage tested
1TB SSD
Learn more
Alienware Aurora R16
review
Add to compare
Mark Knapp/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Mark Knapp/CNET
Best midrange gaming PC
HP Omen 35L
8.2
/10
SCORE
Pros
Classy, RGB-lit design
Effective cooling with dust filtration on the intakes
Strong 4K performance
Cons
Memory and storage upgrades are overpriced
Unimpressive port selection, though good quantity
The Omen 35L configuration we tested was overpriced, especially given its somewhat unbalanced match of a midrange Ryzen 7 7700G CPU with higher-end options like 64GB RAM and an RTX 4080 Super GPU. But if you configure it with the memory and GPU matching the level of the CPU -- an RTX 5060 Ti (with a matching upgrade to an 850W power supply), 1TB SSD and 32GB RAM -- it should grant you a pretty nice mainstream 1080p/1440p system for around $1,500. The system has a solid build quality with an uncluttered design visible behind the glass. It's not the cheapest you'll find for the configuration, but HP's a solid manufacturer. And while it has a reasonable number of connections for gaming, it lacks high-speed connections for data transfer.Note that we've scored it here for the lower price configuration, since it has a much better price/performance balance than the configuration we reviewed.
... Show more
Get it now
$1,510 at HP
Specs & Configurations
Desktop class
Full tower (55 liter)Case dimensions (WHD)
19.3 x 18.9 x 9.25in/490 x 480 x 235 mmProcessor tested
4.2Gz AMD Ryzen 7 8700GMemory tested
64GB DDR5-3600Graphics tested
Nvidia GeForce RTX 4080 SuperStorage tested
2TB SSD
Add to compare
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/2
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best Mac gaming desktop
Mac Studio (2025)
9.1
/10
SCORE
Pros
Really fast and quiet
Compact
Thunderbolt 5/USB4
Cons
Because Apple doesn't support discrete GPUs, you have to buy a more powerful CPU than you might want
Can't upgrade memory
M4 Max model has two fewer Thunderbolt connections than the M3 Ultra, and the front ports aren't USB 4
If you want to run AAA games on the Mac you don't have a lot of choice: It's either the Mac Mini or the Mac Studio (you need the more powerful GPU that you don't get with the base M4 for decent performance, which leaves out the iMac). I err on the side of the Studio because you can get the M4 Max chip and it has a higher power cooling system than the Mini -- since you can't upgrade the either of the systems, you need to buy as much as you can afford now -- but bumping up the Mini to the M4 Pro may be a solid alternative. A lot of non-AAA games that support the Mac don't need as much graphics power but if you're planning to hold on to the system for a while, you might want to assume you'll need more at some point before you're ready to give it up.That said, there still aren't a ton of Mac games, despite Apple's best efforts to attract developers. And a lot of the ones that are available tend to be mobile games adapted or emulated, or free-to-play cloud-based games -- none of which require a lot of power. If that's the case, you don't need a gaming system, and a Mini or iMac should suffice.  ... Show more
Get it now
$3,550 at B&H
Specs & Configurations
Desktop class
Small Form Factor (SFF)Case dimensions
3.7 x 7.7 x 7.7 inchesProcessor tested
Apple M4 Max 16 coresMemory tested
128GB LPDDR5 unified (soldered)Graphics tested
Integrated 40 coresStorage tested
1TB SSD
Learn more
Mac Studio (2025) review
Add to compareSpecifications for gaming desktop test configurations
Alienware Aurora R16Apple Mac Studio (2025)HP Omen 35LLenovo Legion Tower 7i Gen 8 34IRZ8Velocity Micro Raptor Z95A Price as reviewed $2,365$3,699$3,314$2,549$3,999Size 38-liter custom (16.5 x 7.8 x 18.1 in/418 x 197 x 458 mm)3.7 x 7.7 x 7.7 in. (9.5 x 19.7 x 19.7 cm)35 liter mATX (8.27 x 16.06 x 16.14 in/210 x 407.9 x 410 mm)34 liter ATX (8.3 x 18.26 x 19.44 in/211 x 464 x 494 mm)55 liter ATX (19.3 x 18.9 x 9.25in/490 x 480 x 235 mm)Motherboard Alienware 0RF96M Z690 customn/aHP 8CF4 B650 mATXLenovo Z790Gigabyte Aorus Pro X870ECPU 3.2GHz Intel Core i9-14900KF4.5GHz Apple M4 Max 16 cores (12P/4E), 16-core Neural4.2GHz AMD Ryzen 7 8700G3.2GHz Intel Core i9-14900KF2.5GHz AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3DMemory 32GB DDR5-5600128GB LPDDR5 unified (soldered)64GB DDR5-360032GB (2x16GB) DDR5-440064GB (2x32GB) DDR5-5600Graphics NVIDIA RTX 4070Integrated 40 cores16GB NVIDIA RTX 4080 Super16GB NVIDIA RTX 4080 Super16GB Nvidia GeForce RTX 5080 FEStorage 1TB NVMe M.2 PCIe Gen 4 SSD (boot) (SK Hynix PC801)1TB Apple SSD, SD card slot2TB NVMe M.2 PCIe Gen 4 SSD1TB NVMe M.2 PCIe Gen 4 SSD (boot) (Samsung MZVL21T0HCLR-00BL7)2TB NVMe M.2 PCIe Gen 4 SSDNetworking GbE, Killer Wi-Fi 6E AX1675x 802.11AX, Bluetooth 5.310Gb Ethernet, Wi-Fi 6E (802.11ax), Bluetooth 5.31GbE, MediaTek Wi-Fi 7 MT7925 802.11be, Bluetooth 5.42.5GbE, Intel Wi-Fi 6E AX211 802.11AX, Bluetooth 5.32.5GbE, Qualcomm FastConnect 7800 Wi-Fi 7 802.11be, Bluetooth 5.4Connections USB 2.0 (x2 rear), USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A (x3 front, x2 rear), USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C (x1 front, x1 rear), USB 3.2 Gen 2x2 Type-C (x1 rear), 3.5mm audio connector (x1 front, x6 rear), Optical SPDIF, Coaxial SPDIF, Gigabit Ethernet, Antenna x2, HDMI (x1 on GPU), DisplayPort (x3 on GPU)6 x USB-C (4 x Thunderbolt 5 in rear, 2 x USB-C 10Gbps in front), 2 x USB-A, 1 x HDMI 2.1, 3.5mm audioUSB 2.0 (x4 rear), USB Type-A 5Gbps (x2 front, x2 rear), USB Type-C 10Gbps (x1 front, x1 rear), 3.5mm audio connector (x1 front, x3 rear), Gigabit Ethernet, HDMI (x1 on GPU), DisplayPort (x3 on GPU)USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A (x2 front, x4 rear), USB 3.2 Gen 2x2 Type-C (x1 rear), USB 2.0 Type-A (x2 front, x2 rear), USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A (x1 rear) 3.5mm audio connector (x2 front, x5 rear), SPDIF, 2.5Gb Ethernet, HDMI 2.1a FRL (x1 on GPU), DisplayPort 1.4a (x3 on GPU)USB 2.0 (x2 rear), USB 3.0 (x2 front), USB-C 3.2 Gen 2x2 (x1 front), USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A (x4 rear), USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A (x3 rear), USB4 (x2 rear), 3.5mm audio connector (x1 front, x2 rear), Optical S/PDIF (x1 rear), 2.5GbE (x1 rear), Antenna x2, HDMI (x1 on motherboard
Other notable gaming PCs we've tested
Lenovo LOQ Tower: The LOQ Tower can deliver decent 1080p performance in its compact 20-liter case, but it's ultimately a budget system with a budget design. That means it's limited when it comes to options, ports and even airflow. Factors to consider when buying a gaming desktop
SizeThere's no one-size-fits-all answer for this. If you want high-powered components or a motherboard with more than just a slot for a graphics card, you need a midtower or full tower case -- it needs to accommodate extra cooling or a larger motherboard. If you've got limited space, measure the width and depth you can accommodate and look carefully at a computer's dimensions. If you don't plan on upgrading and can afford to pay for the configuration you're going to still want in three to five years, then you can go with a small form factor, or SFF, PC. While you can use liters as a measurement for case size, actual dimensions are more useful.MotherboardYou generally only can choose the motherboard for custom or DIY builds, but even with a prebuilt system you need to ensure it can meet your needs. For instance, not only that it has sufficient PCI slots but that if you hypothetically require both 16-bit slots to run at maximum bandwidth they will. The motherboard and its chipset determines the maximum possible USB ports; networking types; type and maximum amount of memory; maximum amount and type of SSD and more. Prebuilt and small systems sometimes have proprietary motherboards, so confirm you'll be able to upgrade if you think you'll want to.Operating systemWindows. You can play games on MacOS or Linux, but far more games are developed for and supported on Windows.ProcessorThe CPU doesn't matter as much as other components, but games that spawn and calculate the movements of a lot of objects or characters -- complex simulations and RTS, for example -- may lean on it to run well. AMD's chips with "X3D" in the name are its best gaming CPUs, while Intel's overclockable chips have "K" in their model names and its Core processors are still generally better for desktop gaming than its newer Core Ultra CPUs. GraphicsFor the most part, the GPU is the most important component for running games, not just to render quickly and at high resolutions now, but to drive AI-based upscaling technologies without sacrificing frame rates or smoothly running AI-based technologies of the near future (such as in-game contextual help or smart NPCs). The amount of memory accessible by the GPU also makes a difference: I recommend at least 8GB VRAM for 1080p, 12GB for 1440p or 16GB for 4K. The amount of VRAM tends to correlate with the class of GPU, and the class correlates with speed; in other words, in general (but not necessarily so), more memory means a faster class of card and a faster class of card means a higher frame rate.System memory I don't recommend ANY system with 8GB RAM or less -- 16GB should be your absolute minimum and many games already require that much -- but 32GB is a good bet to support games for at least another few years. Most desktops let you upgrade memory; ultracompacts or all-in-ones may use laptop parts, which means soldered (and therefore not upgradeable) memory, so you want to watch for that if you plan on saving money now.StorageGames are getting bigger and bigger, so more storage is always better. If you play serially you can probably get by backing up to an external SSD, but if you jump around or want to keep multiple games installed on your system (and use the system for more than just gaming!), I suggest 1TB minimum.The review process for desktops consists of two parts: performance testing under controlled conditions in the CNET Labs and extensive hands-on use by our reviewers. This includes evaluating a device's aesthetics, ergonomics and features with respect to price. A final review verdict is a combination of objective and subjective judgments.  How we test gaming desktops
Dan Ackerman/CNETWe test all desktops with a core set of benchmarks, including Primate Labs Geekbench 6 and Geekbench AI, Cinebench 2024, PCMark 10, a variety of 3DMark benchmarks (whichever can run on the desktop), UL Procyon Computer Vision and Image Generation AI benchmarks and more. If a desktop is intended for gaming, we'll also run benchmarks from Guardians of the Galaxy, The Rift Breaker (CPU and GPU), Shadow of the Tomb Raider as part of our core set, then supplement with a variety of other game benchmarks (such as Returnal and Cyberpunk 2077) and general gameplay, all in a variety of resolutions depending upon the system. Our testing suite for systems with discrete graphics also includes SPECviewperf 2020 for pro graphics.For the hands-on, the reviewer uses it for their work and gaming during the review period, evaluating how well the design, features (such as the screen, camera and speakers) and manufacturer-supplied software operate as a cohesive whole. We also place importance on how well they work given their cost and where the manufacturer has potentially made upgrades or tradeoffs for its price.The list of benchmarking software and comparison criteria we use changes over time as the devices we test evolve. We do not report all the results of our testing, only the data which adds information rather than duplicating a comparative pattern. Gaming computer FAQs
When is the best time to buy a desktop?
Outside of Prime Day and Black Friday sales, there are certain times of the year when you're more likely to find a good desktop deal, or the latest tech -- sometimes both. January is a good time to find a post-holiday deal and is also the month when new models with new components are usually announced at CES. There's generally a lead time before those new models are released. They typically become available in the spring. In the spring months, you will not only find the latest desktops with the latest CPUs from Intel and AMD and the latest GPUs from Nvidia and AMD, but you can also find discounts on older models that are suddenly relegated to previous-gen status but are still far from being classified as outdated.The next month to keep an eye out for desktop deals is July, when retailers begin to offer back-to-school sales. Those sales will run through August and into September.This is not to say you can’t lock in a solid desktop deal on any given day of the year. The large manufacturers such as Dell, HP and Lenovo constantly rotate sales on their sites, and retailers including Amazon, Best Buy and Newegg offer discounts weekly.
Show more
Should I buy or build my gaming PC
As far as PC gaming goes, all power players ponder how to build a gaming PC at some point or another. As they go through the gaming PC build, they also wonder whether the resulting gaming experience is worth it. Doing your own PC build is a great option if choices and DIY don't scare you -- it's sometimes the only way to get the best gaming PC configuration for your needs -- or if you think PC building will be fun. But it generally doesn't work out to be a way to save money over an identical prebuilt gaming PC, or if you don't know what a motherboard is and how it works. Even if you can get the parts at good prices, the assumption for the cost analysis is that your time is worth zero; labor is part of the price discrepancy between custom build and DIY. And there are other considerations; for instance, I bought a custom build last time because there's no place in my apartment to build one and I didn't need a GPU.It may be cheaper to do your own PC build than getting a premium custom PC model from a company like Origin PC, Maingear , Velocity Micro and the like, but the flip side is that it's nice to have someone else do the overclocking iterations, stability testing and burn-in runs. There are few things more frustrating than gearing up and sitting down to play the latest AAA only to have it crap out during the opening cutscene with only yourself to blame.
Show more
About the Author
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice
I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats.
Read full bio
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.