China Embraces Cleaner Energy, While US Is Stuck in the 20th Century - Newsweek
U.S.WorldScienceHealthLifeRankingsOpinionEntertainmentFact CheckMy TurnEducation
EventsSportsPodcastsBetter PlanetBetter WorkplacesVaultMightierAutosNewslettersUnconventionalVantageExpertsVoicesSubscribe
Login
×
Subscribe
LoginU.S.WorldScienceHealthLifeRankingsOpinionEntertainmentFact CheckMy TurnEducationEventsSportsPodcastsBetter PlanetBetter WorkplacesVaultMightierAutosNewslettersUnconventionalVantageExpertsVoices
Chef Marcus Samuelsson wants his legacy to be 'delicious'
Poland's deputy PM on Trump, Putin and becoming Europe's new military power
World
China
Clean Energy
Fossil fuels
Donald Trump
United States
Climate
Newsweek MagazineChina Embraces Cleaner Energy, While US Is Stuck in the 20th Century
Sep 17, 2025 at 5:00 AM EDT
CLOSE X
By
Jeff Young is Newsweek's Environment and Sustainability Editor based in Louisville, Kentucky. His focus is climate change and sustainability with an emphasis on climate solutions and the clean energy transition. He has in-depth knowledge of energy policy and climate science and has covered international climate negotiations, energy and climate legislation on Capitol Hill and the aftermath of climate-driven disasters such as Hurricane Katrina. Jeff is the author of Appalachian Fall (Simon & Schuster, 2020), which explored the decline of the coal industry and community-level responses to the energy transition. He joined Newsweek in 2023 and previously managed the Ohio Valley ReSource, a public media news collaborative and was host and Washington Correspondent for public radio's Living on Earth. He is a graduate of Marshall University and was a 2012 Nieman Fellow at Harvard University. You can get in touch with Jeff at j.young@newsweek.com and find him on X (formerly Twitter) at @JeffYoung8, and on BlueSky at @jefftheyoung.bsky.social. Languages: English, some Spanish.
Writers Page
Jeff Young
Environment and Sustainability Editor
Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member
FOLLOW
news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources.
Share
Copy Link
✓ Link copied to clipboard!
Listen
Translate
English (Original)
Español中国人FrançaisDeutschPortugueseहिन्दीNewsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content.
Read original
Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x
🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur.
✖
This summer, officials with the China Green Development Group showcased a sprawling solar park nearing completion in the country's Xinjiang region that covers more than 230 square miles of the Gobi Desert, an area roughly the size of Chicago. The Midong solar project is the world's largest single-solar power producer, potentially generating enough electricity for 5 million households.
Photovoltaic and modern city skyline, China Chongqing.
Photovoltaic and modern city skyline, China Chongqing.
WangAnQi/Getty
In October, China's Dongfang Electric Wind Power Co. announced that the world's largest wind turbine had rolled off the production line at southern China's Fujian Fuzhou Offshore Wind Power Industrial Park.According to Dongfang, the behemoth structure will be able to power 55,000 households at peak output and its central hub will stand 606 feet high—roughly twice as tall as the Statue of Liberty.Chinese automaker BYD is nearing completion of a city-sized electric vehicle and battery manufacturing center in Zhengzhou, in China's Henan province, that will be roughly 10 times the size of Tesla's largest U.S. facility.The expansive EV factories, towering wind turbines and sprawling solar arrays are symbols of China's enormous global lead in renewable energy and clean technology, some of the fastest growing sectors of the global energy market. "I would describe the gap in terms of competitiveness between Chinese companies and their U.S. counterparts like an NBA game," Li Shuo, director of the China Climate Hub at the D.C.-based think tank Asia Society Policy Institute told Newsweek. "We're in the fourth quarter and the U.S. team is trailing by 30 points."
A Waymo autonomous driving automobile charges its battery at a Charge Point charging station on September 3, 2025, in Hoboken, New Jersey.
A Waymo autonomous driving automobile charges its battery at a Charge Point charging station on September 3, 2025, in Hoboken, New Jersey.
Gary Hershorn / Contributor/Getty
President Donald Trump talks about "U.S. energy dominance" while advancing policies to prop up the collapsing market for coal and drill more oil and gas—the leading energy sources of the 20th century. But Chinese President Xi Jinping is showing what it looks like to dominate the energy of the 21st century. Read more
Chart show China winning global clean energy race
China starts buying US-sanctioned Russian gas, defying Trump
Xi, Putin and the Russian gas deal to resist Trump and the West
By most estimates, Li said, China controls more than half of global EV manufacturing, 70 percent of wind turbine production and 80 percent of PV solar panel production."That dominating position was established by thorough, savvy and consistent policy frameworks in China," Li explained. China has leveraged its enormous domestic market to provide demand for clean energy, while it steadily developed an industrial ecosystem to innovate along supply chains and lower costs for clean tech products and renewable energy."That kind of secret sauce, if you will, that China has simply does not exist here in the U.S.," Li said.Change in StrategyThe U.S. energy story, by contrast, has been one of whipsaw swings in policy with each change in party control of Congress and the White House.President Joe Biden's 2022 Inflation Reduction Act—passed solely with Democratic votes in Congress—provided historic incentives for clean energy manufacturers and EV and battery makers. The bill's tax incentives and government-supported loans triggered hundreds of billions of dollars of private investment. The law and related federal programs aimed to boost demand for EVs and clean energy while building up a domestic supply chain so that clean technology made in the U.S. could better compete with that made in China.
The Eco Wave Power logo is displayed on a floater raised out of the water during a demonstration of Eco Wave Power electricity generation technology using the power of ocean waves in the harbor at...
The Eco Wave Power logo is displayed on a floater raised out of the water during a demonstration of Eco Wave Power electricity generation technology using the power of ocean waves in the harbor at AltaSea at the Port of Los Angeles in San Pedro, California, on August 26, 2025. Floating blue paddles dance on the waves that lap a dock in the Port of Los Angeles, silently converting the power of the sea into useable electricity. This innovative installation may hold one of the keys to accelerating a transition away from fossil fuels that scientists say is necessary if the world is to avoid the worst effects of climate change.
More
Patrick T. Fallon / AFP/Getty
"We were effectively fighting back and succeeding over the last several years," Jason Grumet, CEO of the trade group American Clean Power, told Newsweek.The U.S. now has about 200 primary clean energy manufacturing facilities, Grumet said, and has been adding dozens of new ones each year. Grumet described a growing energy sector "on the verge of becoming basically self-sufficient" for making final products like solar panels and wind turbines, and developing the capacity to make the components domestically as well.As demand for electricity surged to power more electric devices in homes and Big Tech's boom in data centers, renewable energy has been the go-to source for the cheapest, fastest way to generate more juice. The federal Energy Information Administration said that roughly 90 percent of new electricity capacity added to the U.S. grid last year came from a combination of solar, wind and battery storage.But all of that is changing now. President Trump took office with a pledge to undo what he called the "green new scam" of clean energy policies and instead focus on the "black gold" beneath our feet.Trump's signature legislative achievement, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, that he signed into law on July 4, ends most of the Biden-era supports for clean technology and renewable energy, and his cabinet officials in energy and environmental agencies have gutted grant and loan programs for clean energy.Grumet said the clean energy industry was prepared to deal with Congress's phase out of tax subsidies.
U.S. Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (R-LA) signs the bill during an enrollment ceremony for H.R. 1, the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act at the U.S. Capitol on July 03, 2025 in Washington, DC....
U.S. Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (R-LA) signs the bill during an enrollment ceremony for H.R. 1, the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act at the U.S. Capitol on July 03, 2025 in Washington, DC. The House passed the sweeping tax and spending bill after winning over fiscal hawks and moderate Republicans. The bill makes permanent President Donald Trump’s 2017 tax cuts, increase spending on defense and immigration enforcement and temporarily cut taxes on tips, while at the same time cutting funding for Medicaid, food assistance for the poor, clean energy and raises the nation’s debit limit by $5 trillion.
More
Kevin Dietsch/Getty
"We were prepared to have a future in which the production of these electrons was not receiving government support," he said. "These technologies are ready to compete."However, he said, the administration has also engaged in a much broader assault on clean energy through a range of executive actions further restricting access to remaining tax credits, halting offshore wind projects that are near completion and blocking renewable energy projects on public lands."At a time when energy demand is growing, it is mind boggling that a federal government would be actively betting against American companies and American energy technologies," Grumet said. And the raft of executive orders has thrown plans for clean energy investment into chaos. The pipeline of new projects has now "frozen" he said, and clean power purchase agreements have dropped by about a third.The net result, Grumet said, will be higher energy prices for consumers, fewer jobs in clean tech manufacturing and a greatly reduced ability to compete globally."It's surprising to me that in a country where we see competition with China as such a significant policy driver, we would wave a white flag when we were on the verge of really making progress," he said.The U.S. retreat from clean energy and China's massive push into the rapidly growing sector will have enormous implications for the world's energy outlook and global efforts to address climate change.Power of the FutureA spokesperson for the Department of Energy told Newsweek via email that administration policies reflect the country's overwhelming reliance on fossil fuels for the combined energy needed for transportation, industry and electrical generation. Wind, solar and batteries provided only about 3 percent of total primary energy consumption last year, the spokesperson said.
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, at right, is joined by US Rep. Paul Tonko, left, and NYS Assemblyman James Tedesco, center during a tour of the Additive Manufacturing Lab at GE Global Research in Niskayuna...
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, at right, is joined by US Rep. Paul Tonko, left, and NYS Assemblyman James Tedesco, center during a tour of the Additive Manufacturing Lab at GE Global Research in Niskayuna Friday May 25, 2012.
More
John Carl D'Annibale/Albany Times Union/Getty
"The One Big Beautiful Bill prioritizes baseload power by maintaining credits that help build more baseload generation and ends subsidies for intermittent power sources that make the grid less reliable and drive up energy prices," the DOE spokesperson said."While the previous administration pursued a strategy of energy subtraction that imposed higher costs on American families and made our grids less reliable, President Trump's administration is advancing a strategy of energy addition and common sense—leveraging all forms of energy that are affordable, reliable, and secure to ensure the United States is able to win the AI race and reindustrialize."The spokesperson did not respond to a question about U.S. competition with China on clean energy.Nobel prize-winning scientist Steven Chu, energy secretary during President Barack Obama's first term, was fond of citing an old adage from hockey: "Skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been."Energy policies rooted in the traditional use of fossil fuels cover where the puck has been. But data on global energy investment show strong trend lines pointing to where the puck is going, and it is going toward cleaner electric power.In its latest report on worldwide energy investment, the International Energy Agency found that this year around $2.2 trillion is going collectively to "renewables, nuclear, grids, storage, low-emissions fuels, efficiency and electrification." That's twice as much as the $1.1 trillion going to oil, natural gas and coal.The IEA noted that the rapid growth in spending on a clean energy transition over the past five years was partly due to climate concerns but primarily driven by countries that wanted to improve their energy security. Europe accelerated spending on renewables and energy efficiency after Russia's invasion of Ukraine disrupted natural gas supplies. China—the world's largest oil importer—worked to reduce its reliance on oil and gas imports and "exert leadership in new technology areas," the IEA said.With low-carbon energy and electrification investments doubling those in fossil fuels, clean energy is looking like the global growth market in energy. "Energy broadly and clean energy are a massive economic market opportunity and obligation," Grumet said. "There's a tremendous market for new energy."
US President Barack Obama (C) and Vice President Joe Biden (L) look at solar panels as they tour the solar array at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science in Denver, Colorado, February 17, 2009...
US President Barack Obama (C) and Vice President Joe Biden (L) look at solar panels as they tour the solar array at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science in Denver, Colorado, February 17, 2009 Namaste Solar CEO Blake Jones.
More
JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty
Several leaders of venture capital firms that specialize in clean tech and renewable energy told Newsweek that one effect of Trump's energy policy will be to drive investment that would have flowed to the U.S. to other countries with friendlier political environments instead.Daniel Weiss, co-founder and managing partner of Angeleno Group, a Los Angeles-based venture capital and growth equity investment firm, said that while the U.S. outlook is rocky, "global tailwinds are largely intact" for clean tech as many countries remain committed to an energy transition."Nearly 80 percent of the world has sent a signal to capital markets, to investors that we're on a long-term trajectory moving from a low-efficiency, high-carbon world to a higher-efficiency, low-carbon world," Weiss told Newsweek earlier this year.Rob Day, co-founder of the Boston-based firm Spring Lane Capital, said the rest of the world will be "stealing a march" on the U.S. by attracting investment in clean energy. "The U.S. is absolutely going to lose its leadership position on all of these technologies and solutions of tomorrow," Day told Newsweek in an interview in summer. "And it's a crying shame."The latest Renewable Energy Investment Tracker report from strategic research provider BloombergNEF indicates that a shift in clean energy investment away from the U.S. is already underway. BloombergNEF found that global investment in new clean energy hit a record $386 billion in the first half of this year, a 10 percent increase from 2024. However, of all the major regions, "the U.S. saw the greatest drop in new renewable energy investment."Committed spending on U.S. renewable energy was down $20.5 billion, more than a third lower than in the previous six months as "investors recalibrate to the region's changing policy landscape," the report said.Climate MattersSpend any time talking to people in the U.S. clean energy sector and you will likely hear that China is "eating our lunch."Author and climate activist Bill McKibben takes that saying a step further. "We've sent a team of red-capped waiters to China to serve the lunch for them," he told Newsweek in a recent interview about his latest book, Here Comes the Sun, which explains the implications of the rapid growth and plummeting costs of solar power.The U.S. invented solar power, but we've now ceded the solar future to China, he said, in favor of a return to fossil fuels. "If the Trump guys have their way, 15 years from now, America's going to be like a Colonial Williamsburg of internal combustion, where the rest of the world comes to gawk at how people used to live in the olden days," McKibben said.
Bill McKibben attends the 2024 Forbes Sustainability Leaders Summit on September 24, 2024 in New York City.
Bill McKibben attends the 2024 Forbes Sustainability Leaders Summit on September 24, 2024 in New York City.
Gary Gershoff/Getty
McKibben added that he's conflicted. As an American, he finds it "galling and frustrating" to see China capitalize on technology Americans developed. But as a climate organizer and global citizen, he knows that China's booming growth in renewable energy and its flood of solar panel exports creates a rare opportunity for climate action.A report in August from the clean energy think tank Ember found that Chinese exports of solar panels to African countries rose 60 percent in the last year, presenting a "vast potential to transform the African continent." Twenty African countries set new records for the imports of solar panels in the past year.In his book, McKibben relays Pakistan's rapid adoption of solar, again, thanks to Chinese-made PV panels.As China seizes the solar moment, "they're going to seize a lot of political high ground," he said."I don't particularly like the Chinese government," McKibben said. As an outspoken journalist and activist, he said he'd probably be jailed in China.But with the U.S. withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement and the Trump administration issuing reports that deny or downplay climate change, China is now likely to dominate the global climate process going forward."And my guess is the Chinese will use it as their ticket to global legitimacy," McKibben added.United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said in a special address in July that the world is at "the dawn of a new energy era" of cheap, clean power that creates an opportunity to meet the climate challenge.He urged nations to make more ambitious climate pledges at a high-level event he was hosting when the UN General Assembly convened in New York earlier this month.Li Shuo of the Asia Society Policy Institute said he anticipates China will gradually ramp up its climate commitments."Of course, the U.S. being the most powerful country in the world, putting its weight on the fossil fuel side, that is not good news for the global climate agenda," Li said. "We just need to find a way for the U.S. to hopefully pivot back to the clean tech transition."
A view at the beginning point of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) on May 9, 2025 at Pump Station 1 in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. The 800-mile-long, 48-inch diameter pipeline pushes oil from Prudhoe Bay...
A view at the beginning point of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) on May 9, 2025 at Pump Station 1 in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. The 800-mile-long, 48-inch diameter pipeline pushes oil from Prudhoe Bay to the port of Valdez.
More
Lance King/Getty
Part of the path forward, Li said, must include reducing the partisan politics around the U.S. energy discussion.Ilaria Mazzocco is deputy director and senior fellow with the Trustee Chair in Chinese Business and Economics at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, where she focuses on China's energy supply chains."What I think ties the hands of the United States is that energy policy is so partisan and so politicized," Mazzocco told Newsweek. "It surprises sometimes policy makers when I point out that in China there really is zero ideological partisanship tied to the electrification of the energy system and cars."1 of 4
Solar power stations in plain areas, wind turbines in the distance. Yancheng City, Jiangsu Province, China. - stock photo
jia yu/Getty
Solar power stations in plain areas, wind turbines in the distance. Yancheng City, Jiangsu Province, China. - stock photo
jia yu/Getty
A composite wind blade, used in the construction of power-generating wind turbines, is displayed in front of the TPI Composites, Inc. manufacturing facility on July 02, 2025 in Newton, Iowa. The Trump administration's One Big Beautiful Bill Act is expected to negatively affect the clean energy sector by eliminating tax credits that have helped to spur the growth of wind and solar energy production. Iowa has more wind turbines than any other state with the exception of Texas, a state more than 4 times its size.
Scott Olson/Getty
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Tunisian President Kais Saied witness the signing of multiple bilateral cooperation documents in various fields including green and low-carbon development and investment after their talks in Beijing, capital of China, May 31, 2024. Xi held talks with Kais Saied at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Friday. Kais Saied, who is in China on a state visit, attended the opening ceremony of the 10th ministerial conference of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum.
Ding Haitao/Xinhua/Getty
The photo taken on April 27, 2025 shows BYD electric cars waiting to be loaded to the automobile carrier BYD "Shenzhen", which will sail to Brazil from the Taicang Port in Suzhou, in China's eastern Jiangsu province.
STR/AFP/Getty
The U.S. energy debate is so tied up in campaign cash and culture wars that power derived from a fossil fuel is viewed as conservative, while energy from a wind turbine is liberal—an Electoral College sorting of electrons.American Clean Power's Grumet said that energy policy has become a core aspect of each party's political base, leading each party to campaign and then govern based on energy ideology rather than pragmatism which, in turn, creates instability."The idea that every four years the rug could get pulled out is just devastating to investment in this country," Grumet told Newsweek."If we don't figure out how to take that kind of ideological edge out of our industrial investment, we are not going to modernize the country," he added.
Illustration by Alex Fine for Newsweek
Is This Article Trustworthy?
Is This Article Trustworthy?
Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fairWe value your input and encourage you to rate this article.Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fairWe value your input and encourage you to rate this article.Slide Circle to Vote
Reader Avg.
No
Moderately
Yes VOTE
Request Reprint & Licensing
Submit Correction
View Editorial Guidelines
To read how Newsweek uses AI as a newsroom tool, Click here.
The Debate
How Can America Stop School Shootings? Newsweek Contributors Debate
By Newsweek Contributors
VS
Gabby Giffords: Americans Deserve Freedom From Gun Violence | Opinion
By Gabby Giffords
In the magazine
See All FeaturesSeptember 19 issue
How Health Systems Are Turning Living Rooms Into Hospital Rooms
America's Best of the Best 2025
Are America's COVID Babies Ready for School?
Greg Yuna's Jewelry is Combining Culture and Art From New York to Tokyo
Top stories
Charlie Kirk's Widow, Erika, Speaks for First Time Since Assassination
Who Is Tyler Robinson? Charlie Kirk Shooting Suspect Identified
Utah Governor Spencer Cox Emerges as Voice of Reason After Kirk Killing
Republicans Pass Map Eliminating Seat Democrats Held for 76 Years About the writer
Jeff Young is Newsweek's Environment and Sustainability Editor based in Louisville, Kentucky. His focus is climate change and sustainability with an emphasis on climate solutions and the clean energy transition. He has in-depth knowledge of energy policy and climate science and has covered international climate negotiations, energy and climate legislation on Capitol Hill and the aftermath of climate-driven disasters such as Hurricane Katrina. Jeff is the author of Appalachian Fall (Simon & Schuster, 2020), which explored the decline of the coal industry and community-level responses to the energy transition. He joined Newsweek in 2023 and previously managed the Ohio Valley ReSource, a public media news collaborative and was host and Washington Correspondent for public radio's Living on Earth. He is a graduate of Marshall University and was a 2012 Nieman Fellow at Harvard University. You can get in touch with Jeff at j.young@newsweek.com and find him on X (formerly Twitter) at @JeffYoung8, and on BlueSky at @jefftheyoung.bsky.social. Languages: English, some Spanish.
Writers Page
Jeff Young
FOLLOW
Jeff Young is Newsweek's Environment and Sustainability Editor based in Louisville, Kentucky. His focus is climate change and sustainability with an emphasis on climate solutions and the clean energy transition. He has in-depth knowledge of energy policy and climate science and has covered international climate negotiations, energy and climate legislation on Capitol Hill and the aftermath of climate-driven disasters such as Hurricane Katrina. Jeff is the author of Appalachian Fall (Simon & Schuster, 2020), which explored the decline of the coal industry and community-level responses to the energy transition. He joined Newsweek in 2023 and previously managed the Ohio Valley ReSource, a public media news collaborative and was host and Washington Correspondent for public radio's Living on Earth. He is a graduate of Marshall University and was a 2012 Nieman Fellow at Harvard University. You can get in touch with Jeff at j.young@newsweek.com and find him on X (formerly Twitter) at @JeffYoung8, and on BlueSky at @jefftheyoung.bsky.social. Languages: English, some Spanish.
Jeff Young is Newsweek's Environment and Sustainability Editor based in Louisville, Kentucky. His focus is climate change and sustainability with an
...
Read more
U.S.WorldScienceHealthRankingsOpinionEntertainmentFact CheckMy TurnEducationEventsSportsPodcastsBetter PlanetBetter WorkplacesVaultMightierAutosNewslettersUnconventionalVantageExpertsVoices
Trending
Israel at War Vladimir Putin Russia-Ukraine War Donald Trump
Subscriptions
Membership Monthly $4.99
Membership Yearly $49.00
Membership+Print Monthly $9.99
Membership+Print Yearly $99Newsletters in your inbox See allThe Bulletin (Daily)See SampleThe Gist of It (Daily)Geoscape (Twice a Week)The 1600 (Daily)Inside Trump Policy (Weekly)Newsweek AI (Weekly)Sports Daily (Daily)The Josh Hammer Report (Weekly)See SampleFor The Culture (Three Times a Week)See SampleDiscoveries (3 Times a Week)Like & Subscribe (Daily)Breaking News (As it Breaks)The Debate (Twice a Week)Pawsitively (Daily)Better Planet (Weekly)The Good Life (Weekly)Newsweek Pulse (2x3 Times a Month)
Sign up now
You can unsubscribe at any time. By signing up you are agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
In The Magazine
September 19
2025 Issue
Company
About UsMastheadDiversityAnnouncementsArchivePolicies and StandardsMission StatementLeadershipNewslettersPress Center
Editions:
U.S. Edition日本PolskaRomânia
Contact
AdvertiseCareersContact UsCorrections
Terms of Use
Cookie PolicyCopyrightPrivacy PolicyTerms & ConditionsTerms of Sale Privacy Settings
© 2025 NEWSWEEK DIGITAL LLC