About PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
A catalyst for better
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all
Researchers openly share all important research outputs and receive recognition for the value of these contributions to science and society.
Knowledge creation is faster and more efficient as outputs are shared and reusable, enabling scrutiny, corrections, collaboration resulting in time gains and avoiding waste.
Diverse perspectives help make research questions relevant and results trustworthy to diverse communities and society as a whole.
Equitable, sustainable models ensure fair participation and access to knowledge for both the producers and consumers of research and embrace diversity of communities of practice.
A catalytic legacy
PLOS was founded and built to advance science by transforming how scientific knowledge is shared and accessed. We have a history of challenging orthodoxy, harnessing under-appreciated trends, and addressing unarticulated needs.Our foundational commitments to effecting positive change are enduring and unwavering:
To accelerate innovation, acting in partnership with others in the ecosystem, to move us closer to our vision of how scientific communications should work.
To be a catalytic publisher, focusing on openness throughout the research cycle and providing distinctive value to significant target markets of researchers, achieving a level of success that anchors our broader influence and encourages adoption of new practices by others.
To steadily increase the resources marshalled behind our vision over time, recognizing that achieving our ultimate goals will require more capital, more influence and more capabilities of many kinds than we or any actor possess today.
An exciting new era
In 2025 and beyond, we will build on our legacy with a revitalized brand with our vision and mission at the center.
Find out more
Catalytic milestones
Here is a selection of the many milestones we have achieved in 25 short years, each reflecting the essence of our mission and legacy.
Previous
Next
A focus on principles, not profits
We exist to serve the research enterprise which means our priorities are based on the needs of scholars, librarians, funders, and institutional leaders, not shareholders. We will not waste public money and will do everything we can to ensure our services are valuable and cost effective. Business models are structured to make our journals sustainable, and any surplus revenue goes toward furthering our open science mission.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top