How Costco's Extended Hours Impact Warehouse Foot Traffic | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
Costco's Early Extended Hours Have Made It Easier to Shop at Peak Times, According to a New Report
Costco operates 624 warehouses in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.
By
Sherin Shibu
Edited by
Melissa Malamut
Sep 19, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Costco expanded its morning hours for Executive members, opening its doors an hour earlier than usual.
According to a new report, the move resulted in decreased foot traffic during peak hours later in the day.
Costco had nearly 137 million cardholders in 2024, with nearly half opting for an Executive membership.
In June, Costco extended its hours at some stores for Executive members, adding an hour in the morning from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. on weekdays and Sundays and a half hour from 9 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. on Saturdays. By September, the perk applied to Executive members at all Costco stores.Now, according to a new report released on Thursday from analytics company Placer.ai, the move has resulted in measurable effects in foot traffic for the wholesale giant, "likely improving the shopping experience for members overall" by creating "a more balanced flow of visitors."Costco's earlier hours have shifted visits to earlier in the day while decreasing foot traffic during peak hours (which are typically weekday evenings from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., according to House Beautiful).
Related: These Luxury Items Are Flying Off the Shelves at Costco, According to the Company's Longtime Chairman"By extending special hours to Executive members, Costco not only rewards high-value customers, but also reduces congestion during traditional peaks," the report reads.
Costco's latest quarterly report, released in late May for the third quarter ending May 11, showed that sales momentum was strong for the company. Net sales increased 8% to $61.96 billion, up from $57.39 billion the previous year. The warehouse chain reports its fourth quarter earnings on Sept. 25.An Executive membership at Costco costs $130 per year. The Business and Gold Star memberships are each priced at $65 annually.Memberships are a prime revenue source for Costco, allowing the company to keep prices low by offsetting operating costs. Costco made about $4.8 billion in membership sales during the 2024 fiscal year ending September 1, 2024, up from $4.6 billion in 2023. In 2024, membership fees comprised close to 65% of Costco's overall $7.4 billion net income for the year.Related: Costco's CEO Says This Product Is the 'Most Important Item We Sell'
The company had nearly 137 million cardholders in 2024, with a 90% renewal rate, per the company's 2024 annual report. Close to half of that count (47%) were Executive members.Costco has 905 warehouses globally, including 624 in the U.S. and Puerto Rico, according to the quarterly report.Related: Here's How Much a Costco Gold Bar Purchased in 2024 Is Worth Today
In June, Costco extended its hours at some stores for Executive members, adding an hour in the morning from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. on weekdays and Sundays and a half hour from 9 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. on Saturdays. By September, the perk applied to Executive members at all Costco stores.Now, according to a new report released on Thursday from analytics company Placer.ai, the move has resulted in measurable effects in foot traffic for the wholesale giant, "likely improving the shopping experience for members overall" by creating "a more balanced flow of visitors."Costco's earlier hours have shifted visits to earlier in the day while decreasing foot traffic during peak hours (which are typically weekday evenings from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., according to House Beautiful).
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Sherin Shibu
Entrepreneur Staff
News Reporter
Sherin Shibu is a business news reporter at Entrepreneur.com. She previously worked for PCMag, Business Insider, The Messenger, and ZDNET as a reporter and copyeditor. Her areas of coverage encompass tech, business, strategy, finance, and even space. She is a Columbia University graduate.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Science & Technology
7 AI Tools to Build a Profitable One-Person Business That Runs While You Sleep
Smart systems to help solo founders scale fast.
By
Ben Angel
Social Media
How To Start a Youtube Channel: Step-by-Step Guide
YouTube can be a valuable way to grow your audience. If you're ready to create content, read more about starting a business YouTube Channel.
By
Jason R. Rich
Business News
A 27-Year-Old Toy Company Is Growing Faster Than Microsoft: 'Really Emotional, Memorable Experience'
And no, it's not Labubu. Here's why Build-A-Bear Workshop's stock has grown by more than 2,000% over the past five years.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business News
A Major Airline Is Furloughing One-Third of Its Flight Attendants
Spirit Airlines is placing 1,800 flight attendants on furlough.
By
Erin Davis
Money & Finance
Half of Gen X Has Financial 'Blind Spot' That Wrecks Retirement
The "sandwich generation" might not be prepared to retire well.
By
Amanda Breen
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC