What You Should Be Watching During Powell's Big Speech - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Markets
How many more interest-rate cuts are coming? Here's what you should be watching in Jerome Powell's big speech.
By
Dan DeFrancesco
Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Serve Board.
Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images
2025-09-17T10:14:57Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
This post originally appeared in the Business Insider Today newsletter.
You can sign up for Business Insider's daily newsletter here.
Twas the day of the Fed rate-cut decision, and all across Wall StreetNot a trader was stirring, except to grab a Zyn from their seat. Everyone was waiting to hear Fed Chair Jerome Powell speakAnd hoping his outlook for rate cuts won't be so bleak.
It's been almost nine months since the Federal Reserve last gave investors some relief in the form of an interest-rate cut. That streak is set to end this afternoon, as the vast majority of market watchers expect a standard 25 basis-point cut.What is up for debate, however, is what Fed Chair Jerome Powell will say about the central bank's approach to interest rates going forward.
The Fed is set to meet again at the end of October and in mid-December, leading to plenty of speculation about how many more cuts we can expect this year. Most experts are split between one additional rate cut or two.BI's Jennifer Sor has a full breakdown on JPMorgan's analysis of the different possible scenarios and how the market might react. Sofi's head of investment research also laid out three sectors that could come away the biggest winners.It's worth noting that even "good news" (more rate cuts are coming) could ultimately be bad news for stocks. Remember: If the Fed gets aggressive with rate cuts, that's a sign it believes the economy isn't in good shape, which could give investors pause. It could also reignite inflation.
I'm also sorry to say there won't be an immediate impact from the long-awaited rate cut for most of us. A single, standard cut won't significantly drop mortgage or credit-card rates since the move has basically been priced in already, writes BI's Allie Kelly and Madison Hoff.With so much riding on Powell's speech, what should you look out for?I spoke to Aditya Bhave, Bank of America's senior US Economist, about the key things to watch. Here's what he flagged:
The dot plot: The first thing to keep an eye on is the Fed's updated dot plot, which is a chart compiling Fed officials' year-end projections for interest rates. The last dot plot, which was published in June, had a median projection of two rate cuts in 2025.A shift of the median dot to three cuts in 2025 would signal the Fed's loosening up its policy. However, if the median dot remains unchanged, that's a sign the central bank is taking a more cautious route, Bhave told me.The speech: If the dot plot disappoints, fear not. There's always Powell's speech! The Fed chair has been clear his focus is on two things: the job market and inflation. How he categorizes both in his speech will offer up some big clues on where rates could be headed.
Labor market: Any discussion of a supply slow down or how unemployment hasn't increased likely means Powell's taking a hawkish, or more cautious, approach to cutting rates. But if Powell highlights demand weakness, the increase in jobless claims, or a slowdown in job growth, it's game on for more cuts.Inflation: If Powell mentions the "stickiness" of inflation and dismisses the impact of tariffs, Bhave said that could spell trouble for people hoping for more cuts. However, if he points to inflation being impacted by the one-off nature of tariffs, today's cut could be the start of something bigger.
Recommended video
Newsletter
Newsletters
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account