Here Are Jimmy Kimmel's Charlie Kirk Comments That Got His Show Pulled - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the air
By
Amanda Goh
Jimmy Kimmel at the 96th Oscars held at Dolby Theatre on March 10, 2024 in Los Angeles.
Rich Polk/Variety via Getty Images
2025-09-18T02:37:16Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
ABC has pulled Jimmy Kimmel's show off the air after his comments on Charlie Kirk's death.
An ABC spokesperson told Business Insider the show would be preempted "indefinitely."
Here's what Kimmel said on his late-night show about Kirk.
Jimmy Kimmel is off the air after his comments on Charlie Kirk's death sparked controversy.
On Monday's show, the late-night host made sharp comments about the reaction to Kirk's killing and President Donald Trump.The episode is still up on YouTube, with the segment beginning at about the two-minute mark.Kimmel: "We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them and doing everything they can to score political points from it. In between the finger-pointing, there was grieving on Friday. The White House flew the flags at half-staff, which got some criticism, but on a human level, you can see how hard the president is taking this."
The show then cuts to a clip of a reporter offering condolences to Trump for the "loss of his friend" and asking him how he's "holding up over the last day and a half."Trump responds by saying: "I think very good. And by the way, right there you see all the trucks. They've just started construction of the new ballroom for the White House, which is something they've been trying to get, as you know, for about 150 years, and it's going to be a beauty."The show then cuts back to Kimmel.
Kimmel: "Yes, he's at the fourth stage of grief, construction. Demolition. Construction. This is not how an adult grieves the murder of someone he called a friend. This is how a 4-year-old mourns a goldfish. OK? And it didn't just happen once."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The show then cuts back to another clip of Trump on Fox News, describing the moment he learned of Kirk's death."When I heard it, I was in the midst of, you know, building a great, you know, for 150 years, they've wanted a ballroom at the White House, right? They don't have a ballroom. They have to use tents on the lawn for President Xi when he comes over. If it rains, it's a wipeout. And so I was with the architects that were designing, it's going to be incredible," Trump said. "And they came in. They said, 'Charlie Kirk is dead.' I didn't know what they meant. I said, 'What do you mean, dead?' 'Charlie Kirk was shot.' And they thought he was dead because it was so horrific, you know, and I said, 'Dead?'"
The show then cuts back to Kimmel.Kimmel: "And then we installed the most beautiful chandelier. Sconces you wouldn't believe. There's something wrong with them. There really is. I mean, who thinks like that? And why are we building a $200 million ballroom in the White House? Is it possible that he's doing it intentionally, so we could be mad about that instead of the Epstein list? By the time he's out of office, the White House will have slot machines in a water slide."Kimmel then said Trump was in "major change-the-subject mode."
Kimmel: "On Friday, he stopped by the always-friendly morning crew at Fox. Whenever Trump goes on Fox and Friends, it's funny because the hosts are so eager for him to be reasonable. They spell it all out for him. They desperately want to avoid having to nod along with anything crazy or contradict him. So, they give him the question and their preferred answer too."The show then cuts to another clip of Trump on Fox News."Is the message too, to the right, the people that are going to go, 'I want revenge,' not to have revenge? Charlie Kirk would not want revenge?" a Fox reporter asked Trump.
"You want revenge at the voter, that's where to go," Trump said.The show cuts back to Kimmel.Kimmel: "OK, good answer, right? Take it to the ballot box. That's reasonable. That's almost presidential. But that's the thing. He can never just stop right there."
It then returns to the same Trump clip, playing the remainder of his quote: "I can't really say at the ballot box because in some cases, like California, it doesn't have ballot boxes," Trump said.The show then goes back to Kimmel.Kimmel: "Oh, well, in that case, begin the purge. For the record, we live in California. We do have ballot boxes. We have ballot boxes. We've got mailboxes. We have lunch boxes. We have all kinds of boxes. You should come see them sometime. We'll give you a toolbox. You can live in it."
Kimmel then shifted his focus to Kash Patel, the director of the FBI.An ABC spokesperson told Business Insider the show would be preempted "indefinitely."Kimmel has hosted "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" since 2003. At the recent Emmys, the show was nominated for three categories but didn't win.The Jimmy Kimmel fallout is ramping up. Get caught up here:There's a $6.2 billion deal looming over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionLate-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business modelThese are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel againPeter Kafka: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.
Recommended video
Donald Trump
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account