This inventive genius made an automatic system that tells him when the laundry is done
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This inventive genius made an automatic system that tells him when the laundry is done
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 3, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Image Credit: Guy Dupont
Summary
Monitors shared laundry machines so you stop wasting trips hauling clothes down stairs.
Four XIAO NRF52840s sample audio every minute and send the data to a Particle Tachyon, which updates a web page via cellular.
Microphones detect wider sounds (such as hoses and cycle stages), so no machine modifications are needed.
I don't know about you, but I have to stay extra vigilant when it comes to fetching my laundry. All it takes is one moment where I tune out for a little while, and I find myself sorting through stone-cold clothes that have been sitting in the washer-dryer for an hour.
Fortunately, we have technology to help us where our brains fail. People have invented systems that inform them when their laundry is done, such as this system that listens for the washing machine's finishing tune and notifies them on Telegram. Now, someone has taken it a step further by creating a system that allows them to check the current status of their washing and drying machines, so they never waste a trip again.
This handy system gives constant updates on when the laundry is done
Image Credit: Guy Dupont
As spotted by Hackster.io, this project was born from the same inspiration that has caused countless inventors to pick up their tools and find a solution: getting really annoyed by seemingly simple-to-fix issues. In this case, our story begins with Guy Dupont on X, who takes some time to explain their problem and how they fixed it. So, here's the issue Guy had. They live in an apartment block, sharing a pair of washing machines and dryers among 16 people. Getting the laundry done is a miniature gamble: sometimes there's a machine free for them to use, and sometimes they lug all their dirty clothes down flights of stairs only to find all the machines are taken. So, they needed a way to see if the machines were in use from the comfort of their apartment. Because they rent, they couldn't secure more machines, nor did they have permission to modify them. Being a tinkerer at heart, they decided to design a system that let him monitor each machine without enraging their landlord. They decided to grab four XIAO NRF52840s and stick them to the sides of the machines, then told them to take audio samples from each machine every minute. The XIAOs beam their findings over BLE to a hidden Particle Tachyon, which processes the audio readings and determines the stage of the cycle the machine is in. It then beams the information over cellular data (because the Wi-Fi range doesn't reach Guy's apartment) to a web page that updates Guy on which machines are in use, and how long they've been going. Now, you may wonder: why not use an accelerometer or a vibration sensor to detect when the machine is finished? Well, Guy Dupont had thought of that, and they explain their reasoning thusly:
Guy also responded to several questions pitched to them on X, so if this setup is making you think "But what about this solution," be sure to check the replies to see if they already covered that. Trust me, people have already tried poking holes in the replies, so there's a good chance your critique has been addressed as well. Despite that, I don't see why you can't adapt this system to remind yourself of your own laundry machine finishing. It'd certainly save me from wearing wrinkly clothes.
Single-Board Computers
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Flame6
Flame6
Flame6
#OJ833797
Member since 2025-06-02
0
Threads
39
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Neat. I'd have done the microphone route and called it good but this is a better solution . One of these things that is easy to ask how to do it better but hardly anyone had the idea in the first place
2025-09-03 10:37:39
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
Review: Hell is Us is not a Soulslike, but something far more daring and original
7 days ago
5 cloud services I prefer using instead of the self-hosted alternatives
6 days ago
I installed Windows on Proxmox, and it's a bit more involved than you might expect
6 days ago
This free and open-source program turns your self-hosted media into a TV station
Today's best deals
This ultra-compact keyboard with Qi wireless charging is now just $36
4 hours ago
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
15 hours ago
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 ways PC builders mess up their case fan configuration
You don't need Perplexity's Comet browser; just use Playwright instead
I led a party of AI models through a deadly D&D dungeon, and this one survived the longest
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.