Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply — 'we will continue to make every customer a top priority' | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia says 'We never deprive American customers in order to serve the rest of the world'
Tech Industry
More than 50% of Nvidia’s data center revenue comes from three customers
GPUs
Nvidia says its H100/H200 GPUs are not sold out despite CEO saying otherwise in earnings call
GPUs
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia responds to reports that H20 is ending production
GPUs
'Doomer science fiction': Nvidia criticizes proposed US bill designed to give American buyers 'first option' in AI GPU purchases before selling chips to other countries
GPUs
Nvidia responds to claim China is urging local companies to avoid Nvidia H20
GPUs
Nvidia H20 AI GPU inventory is limited
Artificial Intelligence
China bans its biggest tech companies from acquiring Nvidia chips, says report
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia to lease its own chips from AI startup Lambda, deal involves 18,000 GPUs over a 4-year agreement
Tech Industry
Sam Altman says OpenAI will own 'well over 1 million GPUs' by the end of the year
GPUs
Nvidia posts $46 billion revenue in another record quarter
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia to resume H20 sales in China
Tech Industry
Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project
Tech Industry
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply — 'we will continue to make every customer a top priority'
News
By
Jon Martindale
published
23 September 2025
Pinkie promise...
Comments (5)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Getty Images/VCG)
Nvidia wants to make it clear that, despite any deals it's done with certain companies to provide future hardware, it will still ensure all customers get access to next-generation GPUs, as first reported by Bloomberg. This follows the announcement of a $100 billion Nvidia investment in OpenAI, which will see the chip giant give OpenAI money, so that it can purchase Nvidia's GPUs in a circular strategy that has buoyed both companies since the announcement was made."Our investments will not change our focus or impact supply to our other customers--we will continue to make every customer a top priority, with or without any equity stake," an Nvidia spokesperson told Toms Hardware in a statement.That may be of some comfort to Nvidia's other customers, but it's also likely to be a strategy to placate them into not looking elsewhere. Nvidia became the world's most valuable company in recent years because of the scramble to buy its cutting-edge GPUs in order to power a new generation of "AI factories" and AI training and inference data centers. But that hasn't stopped those same companies from looking for alternative sources lest Nvidia itself become a bottleneck, through chip supply issues or granting favour to one company over another.
You may like
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
Nvidia says 'We never deprive American customers in order to serve the rest of the world'
More than 50% of Nvidia’s data center revenue comes from three customers
Other major chip firms like Nvidia competitor AMD do offer their own AI hardware. It might not be as impressive as Nvidia's and lacks the CUDA ecosystem, which has helped give Nvidia such a near-monopoly in the professional GPU space for many years, but its hardware is capable nonetheless. If Nvidia were unable to meet its commitments, or indeed appears to be favoring one company over another, customers may start to look for alternative solutions in order to give themselves more control over their AI supply chain.To that end, Microsoft, Amazon, Google, and others are all developing their own AI-accelerating hardware to give them some independence from Nvidia, even if it seems unlikely any of them will be able to offer a competitive product to Nvidia's GPUs any time soon. Chinese firms have also been making major efforts to untether themselves from Nvidia amidst ongoing trade negotiations and tariff talks with the United States.Other Nvidia investments, which are likely to give other actual or potential customers pause, include the Intel deal, which will see Nvidia work together with the CPU giant to fabricate new chips that combine their hardware into a single chip. Nvidia's recent investment and pseudo-takeover of GPU networking hardware firm Enfabrica also smacks of Nvidia shoring up its near-monopoly in the AI hardware space.But with the world rushing to develop AI infrastructure as fast as possible, there seems likely to be plenty of scope for competition to find purchase. AMD is one such potential alternative, but Qualcomm is working on its own accelerators, and if Chinese innovation in the space has shown us anything in the past couple of years, it's that they can surprise with their speed and capabilities. They may well do so once again if they can solve certain bottlenecks.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Jensen Huang
Nvidia
OpenAI
See all comments (5)
Jon MartindaleFreelance WriterJon Martindale is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. For the past 20 years, he's been writing about PC components, emerging technologies, and the latest software advances. His deep and broad journalistic experience gives him unique insights into the most exciting technology trends of today and tomorrow.
Read more
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
Nvidia says 'We never deprive American customers in order to serve the rest of the world'
More than 50% of Nvidia’s data center revenue comes from three customers
Nvidia says its H100/H200 GPUs are not sold out despite CEO saying otherwise in earnings call
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
Nvidia responds to reports that H20 is ending production
Latest in Tech Industry
Entire website dedicated to helping San Francisco motorists avoid parking tickets goes live
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
OpenAI makes flurry of deals in drive towards for-profit model
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Latest in News
Intel might be working on its own multi-frame generation tech — "XeSS MFG" appears in Arc driver files
GPD Win 5 handheld soars above the competition with Strix Halo inside
China's latest GPU arrives with claims of CUDA compatibility and RT support
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
5 Comments
Comment from the forums
Marlin1975
So invest in a company that uses that money to buy your own goods.
Both companies announce this and stock price goes up.
Infinite money loop... at least till the bubble pops.
Reply
wussupi83
This all reminds me of Intel circa 10 years ago. Large market share. AMD around but not making waves. Investing in complimentary hardware companies. Software being better optimized for Intel hardware. Uncertainty if ARM on the horizon would impact their business and how much.
Reply
SonoraTechnical
I always trust billionaires to act in the consumers best interest, don't you? I'm certain we'll see a windfall of competitive prices in the prosumer graphics card market. Three AI giants working together, investing in each other's companies (Oracle, OpenAI, nVidia)... 100 billion here, 300 billion there... chump change... No collusion... No need to alarm the Feds... We're going to be protected.
Reply
ingtar33
The incestuous silicon valley ouroboros continues... get this.
OpenAI pledged 300billion to build out a massive datacenter with Oracle, this drove oracle's stock prices through the roof
problem is OpenAI doesn't have 300billion nor the means to make it
Oracle then pledged to buy 200billion in Nvidia gpus for their AI datacenter they're building for OpenAI, driving NVidia stock through the roof.
NVidia then pledges 100billion to Open AI to help them get their database project off the ground, driving OpenAI valuation from 40billion to 500billion with no money changing hands, it's a miracle!
It's a giant ouroboros. No money is actually changing hand but the value for all 3 goes up!
Reply
Trake_17
Because TSMC has infinite capacity
Reply
View All 5 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.