Country office strengthening for country impact
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
Countries/
Country office strengthening for country impact
Country office strengthening
for country impact
WHO
The mother of 11-month-old Jasmin, that was born with a congenital heart condition, discusses with a WHO Officer during a health checkup at Bethesda Hospital, Hungary.
©
Credits
Making WHO reliable, impactful, relevant in every countryWHO is committed to enhancing its effectiveness and making a meaningful impact in countries, ensuring that we can effectively serve our Member States. Our approach involves empowering country offices through a comprehensive bottom-up process, spearheaded by WHO representatives in collaboration with the Action for Results Group. Since the proposal of an Action Plan in February 2023, significant strides have been made to fortify country offices, ensuring they are equipped with the necessary resources, personnel, and streamlined operations. This strategic focus enables WHO to deliver tangible results where it matters most—at the country level.The Action Plan for Country Office Strengthening” proposed by the Action for Results Group underpins WHO's Transformation Agenda, enhancing our capacity to respond effectively to diverse health challenges in the countries and increasing the impact on people’s health.
Country office strengthening for country impactCountry cooperation strategiesCountry presence reportsCountry intelligenceDepartment of Country Strategy and Support
Action for Results GroupIn January 2023, the Action for Results Group (ARG) was founded with a focused mission: to accelerate the empowerment of WHO country offices, aligning with the Organization's enduring commitment to meeting countries' needs effectively. The group, consisting of two WHO Representatives (WRs) from each of WHO's six regions, was carefully designed to ensure broad representation and informed decision-making. The ARG, with combined insights and expertise of all WRs, carefully created an Action Plan designed to initiate lasting transformations tailored to the unique requirements of each country.
WHO / Christopher Black
WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, along with Shambhu Acharya, Indrajit Hazarika and Bernard Tomas, met with the Action for Results Group (ARG) during their first in-person retreat at WHO Headquarters on 10 January 2024.
©
Credits
Strengthening WHO country offices for greater impact
The Action Plan to strengthen WHO country offices addresses critical capacity needs, while ultimately striving to make WHO more reliable and impactful. A key component is its differentiated “core predictable country presence”, which recognises the need to build differentiated core capacities in all country offices, but varies them depending on the level of WHO support provided to countries based on their needs.The Action Plan's key areas are as follows:Enhanced delegation of authority to WRs in countriesIn 2023, WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and five WHO regional directors issued a joint global delegation of authority to WHO Country Representatives, to enable them to provide more responsive and timely support to Member States. This significant step in decentralizing leadership recognizes the vital role of WHO Country Office heads and will empower them to take a stronger leadership role in the countries they serve.  1.1. Enhanced delegation of authority to WRs in countries
Core predictable WHO country presence, implemented and financedRecognizing the need to have core staff positions that are predictably financed in WHO country offices, the ARG recommended a model based on a minimum core structure and capacity for all country offices. This core predictable country presence (CPCP) will help ensure country offices are fit-for-purpose with the required technical and managerial capacities. Importantly, the CPCP is differentiated by country office “typology”, based on a rigorous process that looks at country context, situation and need. This also helps set the support provided – policy dialogue, strategic support, technical assistance or service delivery. The typology will be revised when critically needed based on the changing situation in countries.→ Core predictable WHO country presence differentiated approach table 2. 2. Core predictable WHO country presence, implemented and financed
A more mobile workforce to better support countriesAn ARG-supported new global staff mobility programme is underway to help put the right workforce in the right place at the right time. It will respond effectively to a changing environment, enhance professional development and introduce culture change and promote “one WHO”. The programme will be geared to the needs of countries, so as to strengthen health systems and services to benefit people in countries. 3. 3. A more mobile workforce to better support countries
Streamlined planning of country level workPlanning of country-level work is being sharpened so it is focused on better alignment with national health priorities, and results delivery. Investments in human and financial resources in the country offices will not only be geared towards delivering on these priorities, but strengthen country-level work planning, capacity building and implementation to address health issues which require cross-sector collaborations. The entire results-based management approach will also be streamlined to minimize the process burden for country offices and to drive impact in countries. 4. 4. Streamlined planning of country level work
Improved human resources managementThe ARG has proposed a comprehensive set of actions to ensure human resources management is more efficient and geared towards harnessing staff capacities and talents. These include making the recruitment and selection process faster and more transparent. It will be geared towards placing the right people in the most demanding places at the right time. 5. 5. Improved human resources management
More open communication between staff across the OrganizationA new internal WHO policy aims to facilitate a free exchange of ideas and information among all staff members, no matter their grade, office or level of the Organization. This pursues the goal of the WHO transformation agenda for a more modern, seamless, impacted-focused Organization better equipped to support countries. It aligns with the ARG’s Action Plan to bring together all capacities at all levels to support Member States as one Organization. 6. 6. More open communication between staff across the Organization
In just a few months, the plan has catalyzed significant changes with profound implications for countries worldwide. Critical positions in country offices have been prioritized, supported by a substantial US$ 200 million funding allocation. Empowering WHO Representatives (WRs) with a revised delegation of authority has amplified their influence in management decisions. Furthermore, initiatives to enhance staff mobility and streamline communications across the WHO network have been swiftly implemented. Guided by the ARG, these decisive actions are propelling WHO's ongoing transformation efforts, accelerating our mission to drive impactful change where it's needed most—in countries.
WHO's Country Offices Strengthening Action Plan: striving for greater impact in countries
24 May 2024
WHO's Country Offices Strengthening Action Plan: striving for greater impact in countries
Delivering impact through action
Video playlist
WHO work closely with governments, health partners, other United Nations agencies, NGOs and communities to improve health and well-being of people everywhere. This playlist presents a selection of videos showcasing WHO’s work in countries.
14 May 2025
Sudan: Malaria vaccination in times of conflict
16 April 2025
Burkina Faso: new infectious diseases unit ­– WHO's achievement explained by Dr Seydou Coulibaly
16 April 2025
Poland: Listening to refugees' trauma, rebuilding hope ­– WHO's achievement in countries
16 April 2025
Thailand: checking hypertension everywhere ­– WHO's achievement explained by Dr Jos Vandelaer
19 December 2024
Health priorities in Jordan: Empowering WHO's Country Office
Kosovo* strengthens health security through intersectoral collaboration with WHO support
20 December 2024
Enhancing health outcomes: CPCP empowering WHO Country Office in Viet Nam
17 December 2024
Working across sectors to combat the burden of NCDs in Nepal
16 December 2024
Reaching beyond health to accelerate the fight against AMR in Nepal
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO