CBS Boston - Breaking News, Sports, Weather, I-Team Investigations
Latest
U.S.
Comey Indicted
TikTok Deal
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
Boston
A greater Boston starts here
facebook
twitter
instagram
youtube
News
Weather
Sports
Video
WBZ Features
All News
Health
I-Team
Politics
Education
Business
Consumer
Entertainment
NEXT Weather Forecast
Radar & Maps
School Closings
School Visits
Climate Change
Share Photos and Videos
Join Weather Watchers
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Patriots
Red Sox
Celtics
Bruins
Revolution
Odds
New England Living
Question Everything
It Happens Here
Keller @ Large
Wednesday's Child
Climate Watch
Change Makers
Contact Us
TV Schedule
Meet Our Team
Station Info
Contests
Jobs & Internships
Download Our App
CBS News Live
CBS News Boston: Local News, Weather & More
CBS News Boston is your streaming home for breaking news, weather, traffic and sports for the Boston area and beyond. Watch 24/7.
Sep 24, 2019
CBS News Boston
CBS News Live
Latest News from WBZ
More
Charges dropped against Falmouth teen accused of plotting school shooting
Charges have been dropped against a Falmouth teenager who had been accused of threatening​ to shoot up a school on Cape Cod, the District Attorney confirmed.
updated 29M ago
Tufts professor on Charlie Kirk "watch list" says he feels "inherent paranoia"
When conservative activist Charlie Kirk was shot and killed, it brought renewed focus to his organizations, including a "watch list" of college professors that includes dozens in Massachusetts.
12M ago
Quincy mayor faces backlash over comments on Catholic Church sex abuse scandal
Quincy Mayor Tom Koch has faced widespread criticism over his comments on the Catholic Church's clergy sex abuse scandal.
updated 7M ago
DOJ sues NH for failing to turn over voter registration rolls
The lawsuits were filed against top election officials in California, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.
8H ago
Red Sox fail to clinch playoff spot, lose to Blue Jays 6-1
The Red Sox are in position for the second AL wild card, one game ahead of Detroit and two games in front of Houston with three games left.
1H ago
Saugus road rage suspect was at ice cream shop before shooting, attorney says
The suspect in a Saugus, Massachusetts road rage incident was "cooling off" at the ice cream shop before the alleged shooting, according to his attorney.
6H ago
Grand juror who leaked Karen Read information thought it would remain private
A former federal grand juror who pleaded guilty to leaking information​ in the Karen Read case said she thought the information would remain private, according to her attorney.
4H ago
Third victim of NH country club shooting says mental toll will take time to heal
The third victim of the deadly shooting at a Nashua country club and her husband are thanking the public for their well wishes.
updated 20M ago
2 proposed bills would help injured and retired K9 dogs in Massachusetts
Massachusetts legislators are proposing two bills that would help protect injured and retired police K9s.
4H ago
More Latest News
Featured On WBZ
Peak fall foliage coming earlier as weather turns wetter
It's officially fall in New England. Here's what to know about the current drought and its impact on fall foliage.
Sep 23
A history of the Market Basket family feud
The drama between the fired CEO and his family has been going on for decades.
Sep 10
Harvard professor says interstellar objects may be proof we're not alone
Harvard scientist Avi Loeb says we are "probably not" alone.
Sep 11
Latest Videos
More
Latest Videos
Next Weather: WBZ weather forecast
Eric Fisher has your latest weather forecast.
8M ago
03:30
Next Weather: WBZ weather forecast
Quincy mayor apologizes for comments on Catholic Church sex abuse scandal
Tom Koch, the mayor of Quincy, Massachusetts has faced widespread criticism this week over his comments on the Catholic Church's clergy sex abuse scandal. WBZ-TV's Louisa Moller reports.
11M ago
02:17
Dozens of Mass. professors on Charlie Kirk's professor "watch list" claiming anti-conservative bias
When conservative activist Charlie Kirk was shot and killed, it brought renewed focus to his organizations, including a "watch list" of college professors that includes dozens in Massachusetts. WBZ-TV's Brandon Truitt reports.
19M ago
02:26
Georgetown woman wounded in Nashua country club shooting expected to recover
The third victim of the deadly shooting at a Nashua, New Hampshire country club and her husband have released a statement, thanking the public for their well wishes and expressing sympathy to the other two victims.
27M ago
00:18
Falmouth parents outraged after charges dropped against teen accused of plotting school shooting
Charges have been dropped against a Falmouth teenager who had been accused of threatening​ to shoot up a school on Cape Cod, the District Attorney confirmed. WBZ-TV's Tammy Mutasa reports.
33M ago
02:31
More in Latest Videos
NEXT Weather
More
NEXT Weather
Next Weather: WBZ weather forecast
Eric Fisher has your latest weather forecast.
8M ago
03:30
Meet the WBZ NEXT Weather Team
Meet the meteorologists bringing you the weather each day on WBZ News.
Jan 8
More
Current Conditions
More Weather
I-Team Investigations
More
Injuries from boxing exercise contributed to Mass. State Police recruit's death
Massachusetts State Trooper Enrique Delgado-Garcia​ died as a result of complications from blunt force injuries during a boxing exercise at the State Police Academy.
Aug 27
I-Team: Insurers using drones to inspect homes without alerting owners
Insurance companies are using drones to inspect properties without alerting homeowners. In some cases, policies have been canceled.
Aug 22
More
WBZ-TV Schedule
View All Programs
Our Newsletter
Sports
More
Red Sox fail to clinch playoff spot, lose to Blue Jays 6-1
The Red Sox are in position for the second AL wild card, one game ahead of Detroit and two games in front of Houston with three games left.
1H ago
Chisholm, new Celtics ownership have championships on their mind
Bill Chisholm formally introduced himself as the new principal owner of the Boston Celtics on Thursday. He doesn't want to change much about the NBA's most successful franchise.
5H ago
Zdeno Chara named hockey ops. advisor, mentor by Bruins
Former captain and Stanley Cup champion Zdeno Chara has a new role with the Boston Bruins.
7H ago
Robert Kraft reportedly set to sell 8% of Patriots
Robert Kraft is reportedly selling off a piece of the New England Patriots.
8H ago
Garrett Crochet ready for playoffs after dominating regular season
Garrett Crochet wrapped up his first regular season with the Boston Red Sox with another gem on the mound. The lefty ace has his eyes on much bigger things next week.
16H ago
How the Red Sox can clinch a playoff spot on Thursday
The Red Sox could be heading to the playoffs as soon as Thursday, and they could even be celebrating before they take the field.
17H ago
Crochet pitches 8 sharp innings as Red Sox beat slumping Blue Jays 7-1
Garrett Crochet pitched eight shutout innings, Masataka Yoshida and Carlos Narváez homered, and the Boston Red Sox beat the slumping Toronto Blue Jays 7-1.
Sep 24
Christian Gonzalez sounds ready to return for Patriots in Week 4
Christian Gonzalez is on track to make his return to the New England Patriots on Sunday against the Carolina Panthers, based on what the All Pro corner and head coach Mike Vrabel said on Wednesday.
Sep 24
Tom Brady fires back at "paranoid and distrustful" critics
Tom Brady is a busy man, fulfilling both his broadcasting duties as FOX's lead analyst and everything that goes with being a minority owner of the Las Vegas Raiders.
Sep 24
More Sports News
Health
Organic fruit and veggie pouches recalled over potential lead
Sprout Organics is expanding a recall of its sweet potato, apple and spinach pouches, due to potentially elevated lead levels.
14H ago
As Trump makes autism announcement, Tylenol maker and medical experts push back
The Trump administration announced it believes acetaminophen is linked to autism risk, but the maker of Tylenol and medical experts have strongly pushed back on the claims.
Sep 22
COVID vaccine recommended for all adults in Massachusetts
Health officials in Massachusetts are recommending that all adults in the state receive the COVID vaccine.
Sep 17
It Happens Here
More
Massive corn maze in shape of Minuteman ready for families at Plympton farm
The smallest town in Southeastern Massachusetts is home to a big piece of American history and an even bigger corn maze.
Get lost in a massive corn maze themed for Lexington Minutemen for Mass. 250 at this Massachusetts farm
16H ago
Here's how Fort Sewall in Marblehead saved the USS Constitution
Fort Sewall​ has been in Marblehead, Massachusetts for 381 years. It played a significant role in the War of 1812.
Sep 11
1912 streetcar "comfort station" now a popular Dorchester restaurant
The Comfort Kitchen restaurant in Dorchester was once a streetcar comfort station more than 100 years ago.
Sep 4
More from It Happens Here
I-Team
More
I-Team
Injuries from boxing exercise contributed to Mass. State Police recruit's death
Massachusetts State Trooper Enrique Delgado-Garcia​ died as a result of complications from blunt force injuries during a boxing exercise at the State Police Academy.
Aug 27
I-Team: Insurers using drones to inspect homes without alerting owners
Insurance companies are using drones to inspect properties without alerting homeowners. In some cases, policies have been canceled.
Aug 22
I-Team: Weapon detection system leased by UMass Medical School rarely used
A WBZ I-Team investigation revealed the University of Massachusetts Chan Medical School leased weapon detection systems for hundreds of thousands of dollars, and found most of them are not being used very much.
Aug 14
I-Team: Smoking near oxygen tank eyed as possible cause of deadly Fall River fire
Investigators are looking into a number of issues including the possibility that the fire was caused by smoking near an oxygen tank.
Jul 17
SJC confirms conviction of 5-time drunk driver, cites I-Team investigation
The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court confirmed the conviction of a five-time drunk driver for driving with a revoked license, citing an I-Team investigation as evidence.
Jul 16
More from the I-Team
Keller @ Large
More
Keller @ Large
Keller: What hurdles could Seth Moulton face in a primary against Ed Markey?
Massachusetts Rep. Seth Moulton is apparently considering running against Sen. Ed Markey but WBZ-TV political analyst Jon Keller said there's hurdles ahead.
Sep 24
Keller: Plans to change state flag suddenly a topic in governor's race
Plans to change the state flag of Massachusetts are suddenly a topic in the governor's race.
Sep 18
Keller: Can politicians work past the bitterness of Charlie Kirk shooting?
Is there really anything politicians can do to cool off the blame game?
Sep 16
Keller: How old is too old to be in public office?
Rep. Jerry Nadler announced his retirement​ at age 78. So is it time for 79-year-old Senator Ed Markey​ to re-think his re-election plans in Massachusetts?
Sep 3
Former public safety official says Concord has "an antisemitism problem"
A former top public safety official for Massachusetts said his hometown of Concord has "an antisemitism problem."
Aug 27
More from Keller @ Large
Offbeat
More
Offbeat
Horse rescued from overturned trailer in Charlton
A horse is recovering after a "challenging" rescue from an overturned trailer in Charlton.
Sep 22
Video shows humpback whales' close call with fishermen
A pair of humpback whales​ leaping out of the water gave two fishermen a scare off the coast of New Hampshire.
Sep 19
Police dog rewarded with Happy Meal for finding missing Avon man
Cruiser the police dog enjoyed a Happy Meal reward after finding a missing dementia patient in Avon.
Sep 19
Missile displayed in central Mass. park for decades moved
The Polaris Missile in Auburn's Goddard Park is headed to the EcoTarium in Worcester.
Aug 19
Video shows rare killer whale sighting off Massachusetts
Old Thom the orca was spotted in a rare killer whale sighting off Massachusetts.
Aug 12
More Offbeat Headlines
New England Living
More
New England Living
Visiting luxury real estate along Lake Winnipesaukee in New Hampshire
Just steps from the water's edge along Lake Winnipesaukee, a spectacular estate mixes modern architecture with breathtaking views.
Jun 22
Hermit Woods Winery in New Hampshire takes different approach to winemaking
An innovative craft winery located in downtown Meredith, New Hampshire, Hermit Woods​ is taking a different approach to winemaking.
Jun 22
Luxury vistas provide amenities for everyone on the lake's edge in NH
Located on the water's edge along New Hampshire's Lake Winnipesaukee, Mill Falls​ blends elegant luxury with spectacular vistas.
Jun 22
Boston home store shows how functionality and beauty can combine
Kohler Store by Supply New England and an interior designer showcases how beauty and functionality can breathe new life into a project.
Jun 16
Chef of Bakey in Boston shares how to make world-famous babka
James Beard-nominated pastry chef and co-founder of Bakey in Boston gives insight on how to make his world-famous babka.
Jun 16
More from New England Living
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
NFL Week 4 Picks
CFB Week 5 What to Watch
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
CBS News Boston
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for WSBK-TV / myTV38
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue