How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
Unencrypted DNS requests can expose your browsing activity, but Android's Private DNS Mode adds a layer of privacy. Here's how to enable it.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 11:43 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Jack Wallen / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysPrivate DNS encrypts your web traffic to prevent ISP tracking.It improves both privacy and online security.It's simple to turn on, but disabling it puts your data at risk.Nearly everything you do on your desktop, laptop, phone, and tablet begins with a Domain Name System (DNS) query. Essentially, DNS turns domain names (such as ZDNET.com) into an IP address so web browsers and apps know where to get the information you want.Also: The best Android phones to buy in 2025Without DNS, you'd have to type 34.149.132.124 every time you wanted to go to ZDNET.com or 74.125.21.102 to go to Google.com. Even by simply running a Google search, DNS is at work. The problem is that standard DNS isn't encrypted, meaning all your queries are sent over the network as plain text. Why is non-encrypted DNS a problem? Let's say you're on a public network -- like a coffee shop -- and you start searching for things on your Android device. Or maybe you have to access a CMS or another work tool, and you don't want the public to know the address you're typing. If someone else is on the same network and has the skills, they could intercept your non-encrypted search queries (or the URLs you visit) and know exactly what you're looking for. Also: Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is off by default and hidden - turn it on nowThat's where Private DNS Mode comes into play. Once you enable this feature, all of your DNS queries are encrypted, so bad actors won't be able to view them -- even if they capture those packets. In other words, Private DNS Mode should be an absolute must for anyone who values their privacy and security. But how do you enable Private DNS Mode on Android? It's actually pretty simple. Let me show you how. How to enable Private DNS mode on Android version 11 or newer If you're using Android version 11 or newer, the old method of Private DNS no longer works. Instead of handling this process manually, you have to install an application created by Cloudflare, called 1.1.1.1 + WARP. Once you've installed that app, it will open, and you'll see a slider marked Disconnected. Tap that slider, and it will enable the service.
The Cloudflare WARP app makes it easy to enable Private DNS on Android, starting with version 11. Jack Wallen/ZDNETThere's a caveat to using the app. If it is disabled and you need to re-enable Private DNS, you won't find the app in your app drawer. Instead, you'll have to search for it in the Google Play Store and tap Open from there. I'd like to think Cloudflare could fix this little annoyance, but until they do, you at least know how to access the app. If, on the other hand, the app is running, you'll see a notification entry that, when tapped, will open the app.
How to enable Private DNS mode on Android versions older than 11 What you'll need: An Android device running version 10 or older. I'm using a Pixel 9 Pro (which means I now have to use the new method), but pretty much every modern Android phone is capable of enabling Private DNS.
1. Open Network & internet
Open the Settings app (either from the notification shade or the app drawer) and then tap Network & Internet. If you're using a Samsung Galaxy device, you'll go to Settings > More Connection Settings.
Show more
The Network & Internet option should appear at the top of the Settings app. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNET
2. Enable Private DNS
You'll find the entry for Private DNS near the bottom of the Network & Internet window. On Galaxy devices, it will be located in the middle of the More Connection Settings list. If you don't find it, go back to the main Settings page and search for Private DNS.
Show more
The Private DNS entry is in the Network & Internet section of the Settings app. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNET
3. Add a provider that offers secure DNS
This is where it can get a bit tricky. You need to have the address of a provider that offers Private DNS. Cloudflare is my provider of choice, so the address for their primary secure DNS is:
Show more
1dot1dot1dot1.cloudflare-dns.comAlso: How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you should do it before installing Android 16) Some other possible hostnames you can use:Google DNS: dns.googleQuad9: dns.quad9.netCleanbrowsing DNS: security-filter-dns.cleanbrowsing.orgOpen DNS: 208.67.222.222NextDNS: 45.90.28.0Comodo Secure: 8.26.56.26OpenNIC: 192.95.54.3Note: Although the above free DNS services are all worth trying, I recommend going with Cloudflare (1dot1dot1dot1.cloudflare-dns.com). I find it the fastest and the most secure of the bunch. On top of the speed, Cloudflare adds DNS filtering, which can help prevent email from being sent from malicious IP addresses. Also: I upgraded my Pixel 9 Pro to Android 16 - here's what I love (and what's still missing)When you tap Private DNS, a new pop-up will appear. Tap Private DNS Provider Hostname, and then type the hostname for the DNS provider of your choice.
Adding a Private DNS provider for Android. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETYou can also choose Automatic, which will automatically switch to Google's Private DNS when it's available. For those who aren't so quick to trust Google for such a feature, I recommend selecting Private DNS and then typing the address for your provider of choice. Tap Save to save the new setting and close the Settings app. You could find yourself in a location where Google's Private DNS servers aren't available, so using one like Cloudflare has advantages beyond speed. Also: I changed 12 settings on my Android phone to significantly improve the battery lifeYou can then verify it's working by opening your default Android browser and pointing it to http://1.1.1.1/help. If you see "Using DNS over TLS (DoT)" set as "Yes," it's working. And that's all there is to it. Once you've enabled Private DNS on Android, your DNS queries are encrypted. Enjoy that added privacy and security.See also
How to turn on Private DNS Mode on Android (and why you should)
How to schedule a text on Android - quickly and easily
How to create Android Routines (and a few of my favorites to get you started)
How to screen calls on your Android phone and stop the spam deluge
How to mirror your Android phone to a TV -- 3 easy ways
Android's eSIM transfer comes to more smartphones. Here's how it works
How to turn on Private DNS Mode on Android (and why you should)
How to schedule a text on Android - quickly and easily
How to create Android Routines (and a few of my favorites to get you started)
How to screen calls on your Android phone and stop the spam deluge
How to mirror your Android phone to a TV -- 3 easy ways
Android's eSIM transfer comes to more smartphones. Here's how it works
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Your Android phone's most powerful security feature is off by default and hidden - turn it on now
ExpressVPN review: One of the fastest VPNs we've tested
3 reasons VPN use is set to explode worldwide - and that might apply to you
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use