How to clear your Windows 11 PC cache (and why it makes such a big difference) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Computing
Laptops
How to clear your Windows 11 PC cache (and why it makes such a big difference)
Deleting this hidden data can noticeably speed up your computer - here's how to find it and clear it out.
Written by
Kyle Kucharski, EditorEditor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:34 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.If your computer desktop looks a little chaotic and you're noticing some performance slowdown, it might be time to do a cleanup. The best way to keep things running smoothly is to ensure you're running the most updated version of Windows (you'd be surprised how many folks' devices are several updates behind). But if you're up-to-date, there are other things you can do to optimize.Also: How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for freeWindows has a few helpful utilities that can free up some space (and they're already on your PC). These utilities aren't intended for large-scale repairs, but can help make things run faster by cutting excess weight.Regular computer usage results in stored cache files that can become corrupted and outdated, leading to operational quirks and slower boot times. Clearing this cache and other temporary files can improve performance and keep things running optimally. Here's how. How to use the Windows Cleanup recommendationsWindows 11 can identify large files, unused apps, and system files that can be safely deleted. This is a good place to start when optimizing your disk space. Here's how to access these tools:1. Click the Start button > Settings2. System > Storage3. Scroll down to "Cleanup recommendations" This will bring up temporary files in your Downloads folder and the Recycle Bin. Nuking these files can free up several GB of disk space. Before you do, ensure you don't need anything in your Downloads folder, as it could contain necessary files. Other recommendations for removal will appear on this screen, including large or unused files, which Windows will bring to your attention. Also: Two ways to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026Many of the large files it will suggest will be video clips or large image files, which you might want to review before deleting.At the bottom, Windows will identify apps you rarely (or have never used) to consider for deletion. If you don't need an app, you can remove it and reclaim the disk space. How to use the Windows Disk Cleanup utilityDisk Cleanup is another utility that is accessible regardless of your Windows version. The easiest way to open it is to search for "Disk Cleanup" in the search bar and bring up the window. Also: How to create a Windows recovery drive in 4 easy steps - before it's too lateThe utility will then identify temporary internet files, setup log files, and various cache files that can be safely deleted to reclaim a few GB of storage space (hey, every little bit helps). Check the boxes of the file types you're ready to delete and click OK. It's that easy. How to clear your PC's location cacheSome data will be created when your PC syncs in a new location. You can safely clear your device's location cache in Windows to free up more space. Here's how: 1. Hit the Start menu and click "Settings"2. Click "Privacy and Security"3. Scroll down to the section titled "Location history" and click "Clear"How to flush the DNS cache If your internet browsing speeds aren't what they used to be, one thing that could help speed things up is a flush of the DNS cache. This task is easy enough to do with one command. Here's how:1. Press the Windows key + R to bring up the Run command window2. In the Run command prompt, type ipconfig/flushdns and press EnterAlso: Updating your Windows 10 PC? I found a Linux distro that can give it 5 to 10 more years of lifeOptimizing Windows requires good file management habits, and monitoring file creep is crucial. These cleanup utilities might seem small in impact, but they add up over time to keep things running smoothly.More how-tos
How to download YouTube videos for free, plus two other methods
Wi-Fi problems? Add a wired network to your home without Ethernet cable - here's how
Wiping a Windows laptop? Here's the safest free way to erase your personal data
How to connect a PS4 controller to a smartphone
How to download YouTube videos for free, plus two other methods
Wi-Fi problems? Add a wired network to your home without Ethernet cable - here's how
Wiping a Windows laptop? Here's the safest free way to erase your personal data
How to connect a PS4 controller to a smartphone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost
How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free today
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use