Cookie Statement | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Cookie Notice
Notice last updated: July 21, 2023
1. Information on how we use cookies.
The Nasdaq website (the “Site”) uses various cookies which allow us to distinguish you from other users of our Site, which helps us to provide you with a good experience when you browse our Site and also allows us to improve our Site.
We use cookies to provide the content and functionality of our Site (strictly necessary cookies) and, with your permission, to personalize the content and advertisements that appear when you visit our Site and to analyze the traffic on the Site. In addition, we share information about your use of our Site with our advertising partners and analysts, who may combine this information with other data that you provide to them or that they have collected when you use their services. You have the right to withdraw your consent at any time.
You do not need to allow cookies to visit most of the Site. However, enabling cookies may allow for a more tailored browsing experience and is required for certain parts of the Site to work. In the majority of cases, a cookie does not provide us with any of your personal information.
For further information about this cookie notice, please contact us at privacy@nasdaq.com.
You can change the cookie settings that will be placed when you visit our Site by changing the settings on your browser or by going to the “Cookie Settings” link in the footer of Nasdaq.com.
2. What are cookies?
Cookies are small data files containing a unique identifier that are placed on your computer or mobile device when you visit a website. Cookies and similar technologies enable operators or websites to recognize your device and collect information from it when you interact with them and serve different purposes, like helping us understand how our Site is being used, letting you navigate between pages efficiently, remembering your preferences, and generally improving your browsing experience.
3. Key concepts
First-party cookies are those set by a website that is being visited by the user at the time (e.g., cookies placed by Nasdaq).
Third-party cookies are cookies that are set by a domain other than that of the website being visited by the user. If a user visits a website and another entity sets a cookie through that website, this would be a third-party cookie.
Persistent cookies are cookies that remain on a user's device for the period of time specified in the cookie. They are activated each time that the user visits the website that created that particular cookie.
Session cookies these cookies allow website operators to link the actions of a user during a browser session. A browser session starts when a user opens the browser window and finishes when they close the browser window. Session cookies are created temporarily. Once you close the browser, all session cookies are deleted.
4. Changing your cookie and advertising choices
Cookie Preference Center
You can change your cookie preferences when you visit our Site by going to the “Cookie Settings” link in the footer of Nasdaq.com.
Blocking Images/Clear Gifs
Most browsers and devices allow you to configure your device to prevent images from loading. To do this, follow the instructions in your particular browser or device settings.
Browser Settings
Please note that internet browsers allow you to change your cookie settings. These settings are usually found in the ‘options’ or ‘preferences’ menu of your internet browser. In order to understand these settings, the following links may be helpful. Otherwise, you should use the ‘Help’ option in your internet browser for more details. For your convenience, we provide links to the cookie settings for certain of the largest browser providers below:
Cookie settings in Edge
Cookie settings in Firefox
Cookie settings in Chrome
Cookie settings in Safari
However, please note that if you use your browser settings to block all cookies (including strictly necessary cookies), you may not be able to access all or parts of our Site.
Advertising Choices
You may be able to limit use of your information for interest-based advertising through the following settings/options/tools:
Privacy browsers/plug-ins. Using privacy browsers and/or ad-blocking browser plug-ins that let you block tracking technologies.
Platform settings. Google and Facebook offer opt-out features that let you opt-out of use of your information for interest-based advertising. You may be able to exercise that option at the following websites:
Google: https://adssettings.google.com/
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/about/ads
Ad industry tools. Opting out of interest-based ads from companies that participate in the following industry opt-out programs:
Network Advertising Initiative: http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp
Digital Advertising Alliance: optout.aboutads.info.
AppChoices mobile app, available at https://www.youradchoices.com/appchoices, which will allow you to opt-out of interest-based ads in mobile apps served by participating members of the Digital Advertising Alliance.
Mobile settings. Using your mobile device settings to limit use of the advertising ID associated with your mobile device for interest-based advertising purposes.
You will need to apply these opt-out settings on each device and browser from which you wish to limit the use of your information for interest-based advertising purposes. We cannot offer any assurances as to whether the companies we work with participate in the opt-out programs described above.
5. Your consent
Strictly necessary cookies do not require your consent. To the extent legally required, for performance or targeting and functionality cookies we request your consent before placing them on your device. You can give your consent by clicking on the appropriate button on the cookie banner displayed to you.
6. Can I withdraw my consent?
If you do not wish to give consent or wish to withdraw your consent to any performance or targeting and functionality cookies at any time, you may do so by going to the “Cookie Settings” link in the footer of Nasdaq.com or, you may delete, and block or disable cookies via your browser settings; see below for more information on how to do this. Please note that disabling these cookies will affect the functionality of the Site and may prevent you from being able to access certain features on the Site.
7. What type of cookies do we use and why?
We use “strictly necessary,” "performance," “functional,” and "targeting" cookies:
7.1 Strictly Necessary and essential cookies:
These cookies are necessary for the Site to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the Site will not work as they should.
7.2 Performance and analytics cookies:
These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our Site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the Site and gather information on error messages. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our Site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.
7.3 Functional cookies:
These cookies enable the Site to provide enhanced functionality and personalization. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.
7.4 Targeting and advertising cookies:
These cookies record your visit to our Site, the pages you have visited and the links you have followed. We will use this information to make our Site and the advertising displayed on it more relevant to your interests. We may also share this information with third parties for this purpose. These cookies may be set through our Site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other websites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.
8. Retention
A cookie or similar technology will exist for different periods of time depending on the purpose of the cookie. For example, a session cookie which enables the Site to operate will only exist on your device whilst you browse our Site, but other cookies will remain on your device for longer such as some functionality cookies which need to stay on your device so that the Site can recognize you when you return.
9. Other technologies
In addition to cookies, our Site may use other technologies to collect information automatically, such as:
Local storage technologies, like HTML5, that provide cookie-equivalent functionality but can store larger amounts of data on your device outside of your browser in connection with specific applications.
Web beacons, also known as pixel tags or clear GIFs, which are used to demonstrate that a webpage or email was accessed or opened, or that certain content was viewed or clicked.
Session-replay technologies, such as those provided by Hotjar that employ software code to record users’ interactions with the Sites in a manner that allows us to watch video replays of those user sessions.  The replays may include users’ clicks, mobile app touches, mouse movements, scrolls and keystrokes/key touches during those sessions. These replays help us diagnose usability problems and identify areas for improvement. You can learn more about session replay providers such as Hotjar at https://www.hotjar.com/legal/policies/privacy/ and you can opt-out of session recording by Hotjar at Hotjar https://www.hotjar.com/policies/do-not-track/.
Chat technologies, such as those provided by Drift that employ cookies and software code to operate the chat features that you can use to communicate with us through the Service.  Drift and other third parties may access and use information about webpages visited on our website, your IP address, your general geographic information (e.g., city, state), and other personal information you share through online chats for the purposes described in the Privacy Policy
Mobile Application Software Development Kits (SDKs). We may use third-party software development kits (“SDKs”) in our mobile applications. An SDK is third-party computer code that may be used for a variety of purposes, including to provide us with analytics regarding the use of our mobile applications, to integrate with social media, add features or functionality to our app, or to facilitate online advertising. SDKs may enable third parties to collect information directly via our App.
10. Keeping our cookie notice up to date
We may need to update our cookie notice from time to time if we decide to use cookies differently. Any changes will be updated here.
For more information about how we process personal information collected from cookies please refer to our website Privacy Policy.
If you have any questions or would like more information about the ways we use cookies please contact us at privacy@nasdaq.com.
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
My Quotes
My Quotes
My European Quotes
Watchlist
Portfolio
Add/Edit Symbols
View as Table
Add symbols now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Stocks, Funds, ETFs and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Instruments
View as Table
Add instruments now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Shares, Indexes, ETP and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Symbols
Edit Watchlist
Your Watchlist is empty.
Add/Edit Symbols
Create your Watchlist to save your favorite quotes on Nasdaq.com. Log in or create a free account to get started.
/
Outsmart the market with Smart Portfolio analytical tools powered by TipRanks. Go to Smart Portfolio
Back
Add a symbol to your watchlist
Most Active
Data is currently not available
Edit My Quotes
Add up to 25 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to My Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Edit My European Quotes
Add up to 25 instruments
To add instruments:
Type a instrument or company name. When the instrument you want to add appears, add it to My European Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple instruments separated by spaces.
These instruments will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Your symbols have been updated
You'll now be able to see real-time price and activity for your symbols on the My Quotes of Nasdaq.com.
Continue
Data is currently not available
Edit Watchlist
Add up to 20 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to Watchlist by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Opt in to Smart Portfolio
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties, please try again.
Smart Portfolio is supported by our partner TipRanks. By connecting my portfolio to TipRanks Smart Portfolio I agree to their Terms of Use.
Submit
Cancel
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies