First lawsuit filed on DCA midair collision which killed 67 : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
First lawsuit filed on DCA midair collision which killed 67 Family members of a passenger who died in the January collision are suing American Airlines, PSA Airlines, and the federal government. It's the first of what could be dozens of lawsuits.
Special Series D.C. plane and helicopter crash
Victim's widow files the first lawsuit after January's D.C.-area midair crash
September 24, 20256:06 PM ET
Joel Rose
Rachel Crafton, left, wife of Casey Crafton, and Dailey Crafton, center, brother of Casey Crafton who perished on American Eagle flight 5342, are joined by Doug Lane, right, whose wife and son also died on the flight, prepare to talk with reporters Wednesday regarding a lawsuit over the Jan. 29, 2025, mid-air collision with a U.S. Army Black Hawk Helicopter.
Rod Lamkey/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Rod Lamkey/AP
WASHINGTON — Casey Crafton was one of 60 passengers who were killed when an American Airlines regional jet collided with a U.S. Army Blackhawk helicopter near Washington, D.C. in January.
D.C. plane and helicopter crash
3 big takeaways from the NTSB hearing on the DCA midair collision
On Wednesday, his wife Rachel Crafton became the first family member to file a wrongful death lawsuit. "Casey was a devoted father and husband, and we built a beautiful life together," Rachel Crafton said in prepared remarks. "Our lives were shattered in a moment, and the grief has been unimaginable." The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, names American Airlines and PSA Airlines, the regional carrier that operated the flight, as defendants, along with the federal government. It's the first of what are expected to be dozens of similar suits.
Sponsor Message
A total of 67 people, including the crew of the helicopter and the regional jet, died in the collision near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, making it the deadliest air traffic disaster in the U.S. in decades. On Jan. 29., the jet had been cleared to land when the Army helicopter, which was on a nighttime training mission, struck the plane at an altitude of 278 feet. Both aircraft plunged into the Potomac River. Federal investigators at the National Transportation Safety Board held a three-day hearing on the collision in August. So far, that investigation has revealed problems with the altimeters in the Army helicopter, which gave incorrect altitude readouts to the Black Hawk pilots. There were also serious concerns about numerous near misses at the airport that predated the crash.
D.C. plane and helicopter crash
'There's a serious safety issue,' investigators say following DCA midair collision
Lawyers for the plaintiffs argue that American Airlines should be held liable, as well. "The crash of American Eagle 5342 was predictable, it was preventable, and caused the needless loss of 67 lives on that fateful evening," said Robert Clifford, a lawyer representing the Crafton family, at a press conference in Washington. Clifford argues that the airline did not adequately train its crew on how to safely navigate congestion around DCA, and that its efforts to maximize the number of flights in and out of the airport amount to "corporate negligence."
Sponsor Message
American Airlines immediately pushed back. "American has a strong track record of putting the safety of our customers and team members above everything else," the company said in a statement. "We continue to support the ongoing NTSB investigation and will defend American and PSA Airlines against any legal action claiming the airline caused or contributed to this accident."
D.C. plane and helicopter crash
NPR host Adrian Ma remembers girlfriend Kiah Duggins, who died in D.C. plane crash
Several dozen family members of other crash victims also attended the press conference to show their support for the Crafton family. "Many of us have been asked whether we dread the idea of rehashing the worst days of our lives in court," said Doug Lane, whose wife Christine Conrad Lane and son Spencer Seojin Lane died in the collision. "We are here to see this process through, however long it takes, to ensure that our family members have a lasting legacy that makes the world safer for everyone who flies."
Black Hawk helicopter
U.S. Army
American Airlines
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor