Best Xbox Controller for 2025: Series X and Series S - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechGaming Xbox
Best Xbox Controller for 2025: Series X and Series S
Your Xbox controller can make or break your gaming experience. I’ve tested the best wired and wireless options available, and here are our top picks.
Our Experts
Written by
Jason Cockerham
Written by
Joshua Goldman
Article updated on September 17, 2025 at 10:33 AM PDT
Jason Cockerham
See full bio
Joshua Goldman Managing Editor / Advice Managing Editor Josh Goldman is a laptop expert and has been writing about and reviewing them since built-in Wi-Fi was an optional feature. He also covers almost anything connected to a PC, including keyboards, mice, USB-C docks and PC gaming accessories. In addition, he writes about cameras, including action cams and drones. And while he doesn't consider himself a gamer, he spends entirely too much time playing them. Expertise Laptops, desktops and computer and PC gaming accessories including keyboards, mice and controllers, cameras, action cameras and drones Credentials More than two decades experience writing about PCs and accessories, and 15 years writing about cameras of all kinds.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
With prices going up everywhere, including Microsoft raising prices on its Xbox console and accessories, it's more important than ever to spend your money in the right place. When it comes to getting a new Xbox controller, that means finding the best one for your play style and the types of games you play the most. There are dozens of great options with different features, designs and, most importantly, prices. I explored and tested as many of the best controllers as we could get our hands on when making this list to help you find the best one for you. And if you prefer to game on the go with Xbox Game Pass, we also found the best Xbox controller for cloud gaming. Our Picks
Best Xbox wireless controller for basics Microsoft Controller for Xbox Series X and S
Jump to details
$40 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best overall pro controller Microsoft Xbox Elite Wireless Series 2
Jump to details
$153 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Xbox wired controller for basics PowerA Enhanced Wired Controller for Xbox
Jump to details
$29 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best Xbox wired pro controller Razer Wolverine V3: Tournament Edition
Jump to details
$98 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Xbox wireless controller for pro-level gaming Razer Wolverine V3 Pro
Jump to details
$200 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Xbox controller for customized performance Nacon Revolution X Unlimited
Jump to details
$200 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget-friendly Xbox pro controller GameSir G7 Pro
Jump to details
$80 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Xbox pro controller with RGB lighting PowerA Fusion Pro
Jump to details
$128 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Xbox controller for different game types PDP Victrix Pro
Jump to details
$190 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 4 more
Table of Contents
Best Xbox Controller for 2025: Series X and Series S
What's the best Xbox controller?
Best Xbox controllers for Series X and Series S
Best Xbox wireless controller for basics
Best overall pro controller
Best Xbox wired controller for basics
Best Xbox wired pro controller
Best Xbox wireless controller for pro-level gaming
Best Xbox controller for customized performance
Best budget-friendly Xbox pro controller
Best Xbox pro controller with RGB lighting
Best Xbox controller for different game types
What's the best Xbox controller?Microsoft's standard controller for the Xbox Series X and S is the best overall controller for most people. Even though the price went up a bit, it still offers everything you need and is comfortable to hold if you're playing for a few hours. It's wireless and runs on AA batteries, so it's easy to swap them out without too much trouble, but you can also get rechargeable battery packs for it. Best of all, it comes bundled with every new Xbox. Basically, it's a safe bet for performance and design. If you're looking for something more advanced, cheaper or just different from the standard controller, I've tested a whole range of third-party controllers, many of which also double as PC controllers. I looked at both wired and wireless options as they have their own advantages. Wired controllers offer less lag and are often significantly more affordable, while wireless options give you more flexibility and range of motion. In the end, the standard Xbox controller is still the best option, but all the ones on this list are exceptional, and each has its own unique features. Read more: Xbox Game Pass Ultimate Review: The Best Content Deal in Gaming Right NowBest Xbox controllers for Series X and Series S
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Josh Goldman/CNET
Best Xbox wireless controller for basics
Microsoft Controller for Xbox Series X and S
Pros
Affordable
Solid build
Great ergonmics
Remappable buttons
Cons
No extra buttons
Basic features
The one in the box is pretty darn good.What I likeIf you just want a good standard wireless controller for the Xbox, start with the one that comes in the box. Available in multiple colors, Microsoft's Xbox controller might not have a lot of features, but it is comfortable and can last for up to 40 hours on a couple of AA batteries. And if you'd rather have rechargeables, there are several options available. There's a 3.5mm jack on the front edge next to the expansion port for connecting accessories like a chat keyboard that fits between the grips or audio controls for your headset. You can also remap its buttons, flip the sticks and use other customizations with the Xbox Accessories app.Who it's best forThe standard Xbox controller is already pretty great on its own for those who are just looking to have a good time without needing any extra features for competitive gameplay. It's also great for those who prefer to stick with AA batteries.  ... Show more
Get it now
$40 at Amazon
$54 at Walmart
$65 at Best Buy
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall pro controller
Microsoft Xbox Elite Wireless Series 2
Pros
Great, familiar ergonomics
Solid button feel
Plenty of hardware and software customization
Affordable for a pro controller
Cons
Might be heavy for some
Microsoft's Pro Controller gets so much right that it easily owns the spot as the best overall pro controller you can get for Xbox. What I likeEven after more than five years, the hardware on the Elite 2 is some of the best in the industry. The ergonomics are great. Every button is clicky and responsive, including the back paddles, which can even be removed if you really don't want them. Microsoft also includes different thumbsticks and D-pad options that can be quickly swapped out when switching games, and the adjustable joystick tension is a true game-changer. Plus, the software customization is genuinely good and doesn't feel like an afterthought. Who it's best forThe Elite 2 is truly best for those who want to experience what it's like to play with a pro controller, but don't need the absolute top-of-the-line pro features. It'll raise your game while not breaking the bank in the process.
... Show more
Get it now
$153 at Amazon
$153 at Walmart
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Josh Goldman/CNET
Best Xbox wired controller for basics
PowerA Enhanced Wired Controller for Xbox
Pros
Affordable
Solid build
Useful additional features
Cons
Wired
There's nothing wrong with sticking to the basics.What we likeThere are two extra buttons on the bottom of the controller that can be mapped on the fly, as well as a 3.5mm jack on the front for a headset. Just above the jack on top is a toggle for volume and a chat mute as well as a diamond texture to the bottom for better grip. Also, like many of PowerA's controllers, it's available in multiple colors, though prices jump around a bit between different variants. Who it's best forThe PowerA wired controller is a good, inexpensive option when you need an extra Xbox controller for guests or one to use while your wireless controller charges.
... Show more
Get it now
$29 at Walmart
$30 at Best Buy
$29 at Amazon
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Josh Goldman/CNET
Best Xbox wired pro controller
Razer Wolverine V3: Tournament Edition
Pros
Excellent hardware
Up to 1,000Hz polling rate
Granular customization
Cons
Pricey for a wired controller
If the fact that Razer specifically designed this controller for eSports tournaments doesn't convince you it's the best wired controller, maybe the fact that it's the wired version of arguably the best wireless pro controller on the market, the Razer Wolverine V3 Pro, might seal the deal. What we likeIt retains the same Mecha-Tactile switches for the face buttons and D-pad from the V2 Chroma of last year (and the V3 Pro), along with the six additional programmable buttons: four back paddles and two top bumpers. My small hands aren't well suited to the top bumpers, but those claw-grippers among us will be quite happy. Razer listened to player feedback and moved the paddles from the very awkward middle of the controller to the more traditional spot farther down on the handles. They are still the same excellently sturdy triggers, just in a much better position. The triggers both have trigger stops for instant response time in high-speed games, and the Hall Effect joysticks are sturdy and precise. Plus, Razer gives you some extra caps, including a taller thumbstick and a domed option. Razer's Synapse app is still one of the best ones around for remapping and calibration, and, naturally, there's still Chroma RGB. It's $100, which is a bit pricey considering the lack of wireless capability, but there really isn't a better wired option. Who it's best forIf you happen to be a pro gamer or streamer who doesn't get free gear from your sponsor, or you happen to compete in a lot of pro-level tournaments, the Wolverine V3 is the best wired controller you can get. Also, if you want a pro-level controller for the house, but don't mind being plugged in, it's by far the cheapest pro controller you can get.
... Show more
Get it now
$98 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$100 at B&H Photo-Video
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best Xbox wireless controller for pro-level gaming
Razer Wolverine V3 Pro
Pros
Best-in-class hardware
Excellent customization options
Solid app for Xbox and PC
Comfortable
Cons
No Bluetooth
Expensive
The Wolverine V3 Pro sets the bar for Xbox controllers. While nothing is perfect, we said it was "just about perfect" in our review.What I likeIt's packing nearly every feature you could want, including Hall Effect thumbsticks, adjustable trigger stops and remappable buttons. Aside from the four extra back paddles that have become standard across high-end controllers, there are two extra bumpers up top for added customization or for those claw-gripped gamers. Razer also included its Mecha-Tactile face buttons, eight-way floating D-pad and Razer Chroma lighting for the logo. It also comes with a carrying case and two swappable thumbstick options: a taller concave one and a shorter domed cap. As the name suggests, it comes with a 2.4GHz wireless dongle, and PC gamers can take advantage of Tournament mode on PC by plugging in the 10-foot cable and getting a 1,000Hz polling rate. Razer's customization app for the V3 Pro is also quite good, which is sadly uncommon these days. Really, the only downside of the V3 Pro is the price: $200 is a lot.
Who it's best forIf you're ready to spend whatever it takes to get one of the best pro-level controllers money can buy, the Wolverine V3 Pro should be high on your list. If you're also wanting something with a slightly different design than just a rehashed Microsoft controller, the V3 Pro changes things up for the better, at least for me.
... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Amazon
$200 at Best Buy
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best Xbox controller for customized performance
Nacon Revolution X Unlimited
Pros
Extremely customizable for fine-tuned performance
LCD screen for software customization
1ms wired latency
Cons
Expensive
Only comes in Black
Back paddles take a bit to get used to
The Nacon Revolution X Unlimited controller is the most customizable controller I've ever used -- and I mean both its hardware and software. While it's expensive, you do get a lot for the money. Why I like itAside from the D-pad and joystick caps that are swappable on most pro controllers, Nacon also gives you extra rings to adjust the thickness of the joysticks, and three sets of weights that slot into the grips to give you the perfect weight in the hand. The software customizations are also some of the most granular I've ever seen, where you can adjust the curvature of the joystick and trigger reaction times. The Revolution X comes with four built-in profiles, but you can create as many as you want (only four active at a time), and Nacon makes it easy to export and import them across your Nacon controllers. It feels great to hold, too. I appreciate the larger, flatter design of the face buttons, and the included charging station is always a nice touch. The only real downside is that it costs $200.Who it's best forFor anyone who really likes to fine-tune their gear to create a tailored experience, the Revolution X Unlimited is well worth the expense.
... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best budget-friendly Xbox pro controller
GameSir G7 Pro
Pros
Solid hardware
Great ergonomics
Plenty of pro features
Good accessories included
Cons
Basic software app
Limited color options
No wireless Xbox support
I've tested several GameSir controllers, and the G7 Pro is easily one of the best controllers the company has ever made. The hardware is fantastic (though the D-Pad is a tad mushy), and ergonomically, it feels almost exactly like an Xbox controller, which is a good thing.Why I like itThe G7 Pro offers quite a few pro features, such as TMR joysticks, Hall Effect triggers, micro-switch face buttons, remappable buttons and everything else you'd expect from a pro controller. The two-tone white and gray color scheme looks great, and GameSir even color-matched all the included accessories, including the cable, which is nice to see. In addition to the cable, GameSir gives you a wireless dongle for PC gaming, two different D-pad layouts and a charging dock.The only downside is the lack of Xbox wireless support, but the cable is plenty long enough not to be a problem for most people. The best part is the price: At $80, it's by far the best controller you can get for the money.
Who it's best forThe value-packed G7 Pro is a strong choice for PC and Xbox gamers who want a pro-style controller at a lower price and don't mind using it wired for the best performance and compatibility.
... Show more
Get it now
$80 at Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best Xbox pro controller with RGB lighting
PowerA Fusion Pro
Pros
Awesome RGB lighting
Solid buttons
Comfortable ergonomics
Cons
Back buttons are mushy
App can be confusing
I'm a sucker for some good RGB lights, and the Fusion Pro might just be my favorite of all time. When activated, the entire face of the controller lights up in a really awesome pattern, which might sound like it'd be distracting, but it's not at all. Cool lights aside, it's also a solid controller. Why I like itFor starters, the Fusion A includes just about everything you'd expect from a high-end controller these days. The face buttons are nice and tactile, the joysticks have Hall Effect and the triggers have programmable digital dead zones that you can store across three different presets, so you can set them exactly where you need them for each game. You can also remap the buttons manually without needing to use Power A's app, which is a good thing because the app is a tad confusing. Power A promises 30 hours of gameplay, which isn't the most we've seen, but the included charging stand with magnetic charging puck helps keep it going. Also, the back buttons are a bit mushy, and sadly, Power A doesn't include any swappable hardware with the Fusion Pro. To make up for that, the thumbsticks can twist up or down into three different heights so you can still customize them. Honestly, I kind of prefer that over having to manually swap them out, and I can't lose the caps that way. Who it's best forIf you love some great RGB lights like I do, the Fusion A is probably the coolest light design you'll find on a controller. It's just awesome. But you don't have to buy it just for its lights: For anyone looking for a pro-level wireless controller that's also affordable, the Fusion A is a great choice.
... Show more
Get it now
$128 at Amazon
$170 at Best Buy
$128 at Target
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best Xbox controller for different game types
PDP Victrix Pro
Pros
Swappable control modules
Exceptional ergonomics
Cons
Pricey
No wireless charging
Hall Effect sticks aren't standard
PDP is a pro-level controller in every sense. With modular features and an overall good design, the Victrix Pro has a lot to offer (though it also has a price tag that matches). Why I like itThe buttons and ergonomics are exceptional, delivering a class-leading feel in the hand. The five-position trigger stops let you fine-tune your headshots down to an art form, and the rest of the controller can also be remapped via software, offering some of the most advanced customization available on a controller. To top it off, you can swap out the entire left and right side modules for a dedicated fight pad or Hall Effect joysticks (sold separately), or even invert the left one if you want to go PlayStation. PDP offers some more advanced hardware options as well, like joystick gates and an extra D-pad option, so there isn't anything missing. Battery life is respectable, and the included 10-foot cable lets you keep going as long as you need to. I do wish it had wireless charging, however, and it's a bit pricey. Who it's best forThe swappable modules set it apart from the other pro-style controllers on this list. This additional level of customization makes it a good choice for those who play a wide variety of games and want one controller to match their playing style.
... Show more
Get it now
$190 at Amazon
$200 at Best Buy
Xbox Controller FAQs
Is there a difference in Xbox controllers?
Yes. While most of them generally have a similar look and feel, they can vary in the features they offer. The most basic controllers (such as the ones that come with each Xbox) are generally fine for most people. They're comfortable to hold and have all the features needed to play every game available on Xbox and Windows games that support controllers. More advanced, pro-level controllers such as the Xbox Elite Wireless Series 2 and Razer Wolverine V3 Pro are specifically designed for more advanced and even professional gamers. They're also typically more expensive, often double the price or more of a basic controller.
Are wired Xbox controllers better?
Not necessarily. Wired controllers are only better in two cases: When you want to save money, as they're often significantly more affordable than their wireless counterparts, or if you're a competitive gamer concerned about lag. Most professional players, particularly in professional tournaments, will use wired controllers as the input lag between pressing a button on the controller and the input registering on screen is less than on a wireless controller. However, the difference is so small that only the most competitive gamers will notice. For most people, particularly more casual gamers, wireless controllers are much more popular.
Do wireless controllers have input lag?
Technically, yes. Due to the laws of physics, signals will always travel more slowly via wireless than via cable and are susceptible to interference. It's the same reason why an Ethernet cable will always give you faster, more reliable internet than just using Wi-Fi. However, only the most seasoned gamers would ever notice the difference. Even then, it only makes a difference in competitive FPS games. There's also a difference in input lag between Bluetooth and 2.4GHz wireless connections. Again, the difference is negligible for most gamers, but Bluetooth signals travel more slowly than 2.4GHz signals, which have virtually no input lag. That's why most of the pro controllers will come with a 2.4GHz wireless adapter that you can plug into your Xbox if you want the convenience of wireless without sacrificing input speed.
Is an Xbox controller better than a keyboard and mouse for playing PC games?
This mostly comes down to personal preference. There will always be PC games that require a keyboard and mouse to play, but most games today, particularly the more popular games, offer support for controllers. At that point, it's mostly down to what's more comfortable for you. If you're used to playing on Xbox, then almost every controller on this list will let you play on your PC just fine. That being said, most of the best gaming keyboards offer quite granular customization options for more advanced gameplay.
About the Author
Jason Cockerham
Jason Cockerham
Read full bio
Also written by
Joshua Goldman Managing Editor / Advice
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.