Best Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors for Your 2025 Workouts, Fitness Expert-Approved - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Fitness Tech
Best Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors for Your 2025 Workouts, Fitness Expert-Approved
Tested by our CNET fitness expert and recommended by the personal trainers we consulted, these are the best chest strap heart-rate monitors for your workouts.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Article updated on July 19, 2025 at 3:08 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Reviewed by: Valerie Cholet
Dr. Valerie Cholet is a Professor of Kinesiology. She earned her doctorate at Penn State University and has taught in higher education for over 20 years. Her areas of specialization include Exercise Physiology, Exercise Prescription, Health and Physical Education, Philosophy of Women in Sport, and Embodied Philosophy. Expertise Exercise physiology | Exercise prescription | Health and physical education | Philosophy of women in sport | Embodied philosophy
Education Penn State University, DEd in Adult Education and Teaching -- Arcadia University, MS in Elementary Education -- Penn State University, BS in Kinesiology and Exercise Science See more
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Purpose
Think about what type of activities you plan to do while wearing the chest strap heart rate monitor. Some aren’t waterproof, for example.
Metrics
Are there any other metrics, aside from heart rate, that you’d like your monitor to track? What do you plan to do with your data?
Battery life
Some heart rate monitors have batteries that can last up to a year, while others last a couple hundred hours. Also, some are replaceable and others aren’t.
Connection options
Decide whether you want to connect your heart rate monitor to your smartphone and how you would do so.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Keeping track of your heart rate while working out is now easier than ever, thanks to wearables like smartwatches and fitness trackers. However, the gold standard for heart rate data is a chest strap monitor, which utilizes electrocardiogram technology to pick up your heart's electrical signals instead of light sensors, which traditional wrist-based trackers rely on. This makes the data from chest strap heart-rate monitors even more accurate. To find the best chest strap heart-rate monitor, I tested several devices, focusing on function, price, comfort, battery life and more. We also consulted three additional fitness experts to get their takes, so you can be sure these are the best.
Our Picks
Best chest strap heart-rate monitor overall Polar H10
Jump to details
$105 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget chest strap heart-rate monitor CooSpo H808S
Jump to details
$28 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best chest strap heart-rate monitor for beginners MyZone MZ Switch
Jump to details
$160 at Amazon
Jump to details
Chest strap heart-rate monitor with best battery life Garmin HRM-Pro
Jump to details
$119 at Amazon
Jump to details
FITNESS TRACKER DEALS OF THE WEEK
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 42mm, Black, S/M 130-180mm, Sports Band):  $299 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Wi-Fi, 40mm, S/M Green):  $199 (save $101)
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $72 (save $39)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $190 (save $110)
Fitbit Charge 6 Fitness Tracker (Black):  $110 (save $50) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Chest Strap Heart-Rate Monitors for Your 2025 Workouts, Fitness Expert-Approved
What is the best chest strap heart-rate monitor overall?
Best chest strap heart-rate monitors of 2025
Best chest strap heart-rate monitor overall
Best budget chest strap heart-rate monitor
Best chest strap heart-rate monitor for beginners
Chest strap heart-rate monitor with best battery life
The best chest strap heart-rate monitors compared
How we tested chest strap heart-rate monitors
Factors to consider when choosing a chest strap heart-rate monitor
What is the best chest strap heart-rate monitor overall?The best chest strap heart-rate monitor overall is the Polar H10, which I recommend along with all three of the fitness experts we consulted. It's easy to use, comfortable, has both Bluetooth and ANT+ and is waterproof up to 30 meters. The battery life is also an impressive 400 hours.Best chest strap heart-rate monitors of 2025
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best chest strap heart-rate monitor overall
Polar H10
Pros
Adjustable strap (for a 58 to 95-cm chest) that you barely feel when it's on
Easy to connect to app
Bluetooth and ANT Plus connection
Good for multiple forms of activities
Cons
Expensive at $105
May not give all the data for indoor activities
Why we like it: The Polar H10 is ideal for outdoor activities. You'll need to download the Polar Beat app to get the most out of it. The app is available for both iOS and Android and uses Bluetooth and ANT Plus connectivity to pair with different devices. The Polar H10 can connect to two Bluetooth devices at once, so you can connect it to both your smartwatch and a compatible piece of fitness equipment, like some treadmills or exercise bikes. The heart-rate monitor is easy to clip on and adjust and comes in a variety of sizes to fit most users.Once you're in the app, it's easy to go into settings and connect to the heart-rate monitor as long as your phone's Bluetooth is on. In the app, you'll see you can select from 19 different activities to measure your heart rate, including some that don't use GPS, like strength training and treadmill running, tennis, badminton, indoor cycling or other indoor activities. This heart-rate monitor can also be used for swimming, as it's waterproof.Denise Chakoian, owner and founder of CORE Cycle.Fitness.Lagree and a certified master-level personal trainer, also recommends a Polar chest strap heart-rate monitor with GPS, explaining, "Polar has always been the best at monitoring heart-rate training using a strap at the chest line. It picks up the most accurate data from your heart and gives out the best output for your overall heart-rate training, caloric output and can help when someone is looking to really keep track of their daily intake and output."Nic Wilson, one of the F45 Training Athletes, agrees, stating, "When it comes to chest strap heart-rate monitors, the Polar H10 is widely regarded as the gold standard for accuracy and reliability."And yet another expert supports this choice. Tara De Leon, CSCS, NSCA Personal Trainer of the Year, says, "I love a Polar heart-rate monitor. Polar was one of the first companies to develop wireless heart-rate monitoring technology and they have stayed at the front of the pack. Their monitors (like the H10) are comparable to ECG-level accuracy. Plus their whole ecosystem of training, HRV and sleep tracking is really good and user-friendly." Who is it best for: I tested this heart-rate monitor during my Future app strength training sessions and during a couple of walks. Since Future automatically connects to my Apple Watch too, I was able to compare my Apple readings against Polar's. I found that I didn't get much information recorded during strength training on the Polar app, with the exception of how long the workout was. But when I dove into the Apple Fitness app, I was able to see that the Polar H10 captured my average heart rate, and it matched with the data my Apple Watch collected. However, for my walks both indoors and outdoors, the Polar H10 was able to show me a detailed reading of the distance I walked, my average heart rate, calories burned, max heart rate, pace and fat burn percentage of calories. A line graph is also included that shows you a display of your heart rate and time during the activity. If you plan on using it mainly outdoors for activities like running, jogging, hiking, skating, skiing or rowing, you can't go wrong with this heart-rate monitor. In fact, if you already own a Polar watch, you may get even more out of it when paired with this heart-rate monitor. "It features a comfortable, secure fit with silicone grippers, dual Bluetooth/ANT+ connectivity, onboard memory and waterproofing -- making it ideal for everything from HIIT to swimming," adds Wilson. "The polar device would be for anyone looking to improve their fitness level or keep track of their workouts, heart-rate training improvement or an athlete who is closely monitoring their daily exertion level," says Chakoian. De Leon agrees, adding that this monitor would also be great for anyone who is curious to explore more data when exercising. Who should not get it: This device is best for outdoor activities, so it may not be right for those who exercise indoors. It is also on the expensive side. Chakoian adds that she wouldn't recommend this device to "someone who could potentially abuse this device or is only looking to move their body without any tracking of calories or workouts."De Leon agrees, stating, "People who are recovering from an eating disorder or anyone who will obsess over hitting their numbers probably should skip the heart rate monitor." She adds that if you’ve had heart issues, such as arrhythmias, you should check with your doctor first before purchasing.  ... Show more
Get it now
$105 at Amazon
$105 at Walmart
$105 at Polar
Specs & Configurations
Battery life
400 hoursBuilt-in GPS
No, but ANT+ connectivitySize
58- to 95-cm chestWaterproof?
Yes, up to 30mBluetooth?
Yes and ANT+Compatible third-party apps
Strava, Adidas Running, Komoot, TraningPeaks, Relive and morePrice
$105
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best budget chest strap heart-rate monitor
CooSpo H808S
Pros
Affordable at $37
Syncs to multiple apps, smartwatches and GPS units
Athletes who train for distance will enjoy it
Strap is comfortable and has a barely-there feel
Cons
Best for long-distance activities
Doesn't have a universal app of its own
Why we like it: If you aren't looking to spend a lot of money on a heart-rate monitor, consider the CooSpo H808S. The CooSpo H808S chest strap has its own app (CoospoRide), and it can also connect to various third-party fitness apps like Polar, Wahoo, Endomondo, UA Run, Garmin, Peloton and more.Who is it best for: Besides the MyZone MZ-Switch, this is the only other heart-rate monitor I tested that flashes an LED light to signal that it's connected. To activate it, you have to wet the sensors on the strap before securing it. Speaking of which, it's waterproof, which is ideal if you tend to sweat a lot or want to use it for swimming. I connected it to my Wahoo account during a couple of walks and it functioned well for that purpose. Based on the other compatible apps, you may enjoy this heart-rate monitor if you're training for a long-distance race or taking a cycling class. When I used it for strength training, I don't believe I got as much out of it as I would have liked, compared to if I were training for a race. However, what's great about the CooSpo H808S is that you can connect it to various apps and Bluetooth devices so you can get your readings across multiple platforms. The CooSpo H808s proves that you don't need to break the bank to get a good chest strap heart-rate monitor.Who should not get it: If you're looking for a chest strap heart-rate monitor that has its own universal app, this isn't the device for you. Also, if you're considering this monitor for anything other than long-distance activities, we would recommend another product on this list.  ... Show more
Get it now
$28 at Amazon
$37 at Coospo
Specs & Configurations
Battery life
300 hoursBuilt-in GPS
NoSize
25- to 36-inch chestWaterproof?
YesBluetooth?
Yes and ANT+Compatible third-party apps
CoospoRide, Wahoo Fitness, Adidas Running, Peloton, Zwift and morePrice
$37
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best chest strap heart-rate monitor for beginners
MyZone MZ Switch
Pros
Easy to set up and connect to app
Has both chest and wrist strap
Connects to various fitness apps
Cons
Expensive at $160
Battery life of 3-6 months could be longer for the price
Why we like it: The MyZone MZ Switch is one of the easiest chest strap heart-rate monitors to use if you're a beginner. The kit comes with a wrist and chest strap so you get even more accurate results. It also includes a carrying case so you can keep everything neatly together. The strap on the wrist wearable consists of a round ECG and PPG sensor, which resembles a watch minus the numbers. The sensor has a button that controls the on and off switch, which lights up. The wrist strap has velcro so you can fasten it to your liking, while the chest strap is easy to secure with some buttons.In addition to MyZone's app, you can connect to your Apple Watch, Samsung or Garmin devices or to third-party apps like Strava, My Fitness Pal and MapMyRun. I was able to use the MZ Switch during strength training workouts through the Future app and had no issues collecting my data after the fact. MyZone uses MyZone Effort Points to tell you a percentage of your maximum heart rate in different zones, which are broken up into colors -- from blue to yellow, light gray, dark gray, green and red. I found that this aspect made it easy to follow because MyZone also includes a rubric explaining what each zone means and why knowing your max heart rate is important. Compared to the data gathered from my Apple Watch, the MyZone MZ Switch's average heart rate, active and total calories were off by some figures, but I expected this since MyZone uses its own rating system.Who is it best for: Regardless, I think MyZone MZ Switch is the ideal heart-rate monitor if you want to be able to easily follow how hard your heart is working during interval training, strength training or just about any activity.Who should not get it: Note that this device is on the expensive side and may not be in budget for some. Battery life could also be longer.  ... Show more
Get it now
$160 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Battery life
3-6 monthsBuilt-in GPS
NoSize
24.4- to 34.6-inch chestWaterproof?
Yes, up to 10mBluetooth?
Yes and ANT+Compatible third-party apps
MapMyRun, Strava, MyFitnessPal and morePrice
$160
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Chest strap heart-rate monitor with best battery life
Garmin HRM-Pro
Pros
Comfortable chest strap for a 26.5 to 42-inch chest
Detailed readings for runners, cyclists or swimmers
Long battery life up to 1 year
Cons
Expensive at $130
Not as user-friendly for other workouts
May work best with Garmin watch
Why we like it: If you're a loyal Garmin user or want a heart-rate monitor with a long-lasting battery, you'll like the Garmin HRM-Pro. Impressively, this heart rate monitor can last about a year, as long as you only use it an hour per day. The included coin cell battery is also user-replaceable. Plus, it's waterproof, making it appropriate for swimming. The Garmin HRM-Pro makes it easy to connect your device via the app, and it's compatible with third-party fitness apps like Zwift or Strava, as long as they're paired with Bluetooth. Who is it best for: Even though I didn't use it for a run, I did use it for a more low-impact activity: walking. In this scenario, the device seemed to provide better information. The app shows you laps, time, distance and average speed. This leads me to conclude that the Garmin HRM-Pro would most benefit athletes who train for distance. I also think it would pair better if I'd been using a Garmin smartwatch, but I don't own one, so that's something to consider if you're interested in the Garmin HRM-Pro. "For athletes already using Garmin devices, the Garmin HRM-Pro Plus is excellent," adds Nic Wilson, one of the F45 Training Athletes. "It not only delivers highly precise heart-rate data but also syncs effortlessly with Garmin Connect, tracks running dynamics and boasts impressive battery life with a user-friendly, tool-free battery compartment."Who should not get it: Garmin is known to be running and cyclist-friendly, but for the price, I would've hoped that it would be versatile for other types of exercise, too. I was able to test out the Garmin first during a strength training session via the Future app, which already syncs up with my Apple Watch. I'm not sure if this was a user error, but what stood out to me is that the data it provided seemed exaggerated. During a workout that was 45 minutes long, it told me that I'd burned over 4,000 calories, while my Apple watch told me I'd burned a total of 241 calories. Discrepancies like this go to show that you shouldn't always rely on the data provided by your wearables.   ... Show more
Get it now
$119 at Amazon
$130 at Garmin
Specs & Configurations
Battery life
Up to 1 yearBuilt-in GPS
NoSize
26.5- to 42-inch chestWaterproof?
Yes, up to 50mBluetooth?
Yes and ANT+Compatible third-party apps
Apple Health, MyFitnessPal, Strava and morePrice
$130
Add to compareThe best chest strap heart-rate monitors compared
Heart rate monitor Battery lifeBuilt-in GPSSizeWaterproof?Bluetooth?Compatible third-party appsPrice Polar H10 400 hoursNo58- to 95-cm chestYes, up to 30mYes and ANT+Strava, Adidas Running, Komoot, TraningPeaks, Relive and more$105CooSpo H808S 300 hoursNo25- to 36-inch chestYesYes and ANT+CoospoRide, Wahoo Fitness, Adidas Running, Peloton, Zwift and more$37MyZone MZ Switch 3-6 monthsNo24.4- to 34.6-inch chestYes, up to 10mYes and ANT+MapMyRun, Strava, MyFitnessPal and more$160Garmin HRM-Pro Up to 1 yearNo26.5- to 42-inch chestYes, up to 50mYes and ANT+Apple Health, MyFitnessPal, Strava and more$130
How we tested chest strap heart-rate monitors
Function during exercise: I tested each one of these heart-rate monitors during strength training and walking workouts to see how well they work for various activities.Comfort: I rated them based on how comfortable the chest strap felt during my workouts.Features: I considered the function of various features, like connectivity to other devices or apps, and whether other metrics are captured in addition to heart rate. I also looked at the battery life. Compared it to a trusted heart-rate monitor: I compared it to my Apple Watch, which captures my heart rate throughout my workouts. While this might not be the best method of testing for accuracy, it's what I had available to me, and the Apple Watch data is easy to read and consistent.Reached out to other fitness experts: We consulted other fitness experts to get their thoughts on the best chest strap heart-rate monitor. This included Denise Chakoian, owner and founder of CORE Cycle.Fitness.Lagree and a certified master level personal trainer; Nic Wilson, one of the F45 Training Athletes; and Tara De Leon, CSCS, NSCA Personal Trainer of the Year.
Factors to consider when choosing a chest strap heart-rate monitor
When it comes to choosing the best heart-rate monitor chest strap for your workout, many of the factors in your buying decision will be based on personal preferences and your workout regimen. Here are a few things to look at while shopping.Activity type: Before you buy a chest strap heart-rate monitor, you'll want to determine what type of activity you will be doing while wearing it. Most are suitable for a range of cardio activities, from running to cycling, but not all would work for swimming, for example.Price: Decide how much you're willing to spend on a chest strap heart-rate monitor. You can find reliable ones for under $50, but if you want all the bells and whistles, you can expect to spend over $150.Battery life: Determine how important battery life is to you and how often you want to charge or replace it. Some chest strap heart-rate monitor batteries can last over a year, while others can last around 500 hours. Battery life will vary per device and how often you use it.Connectivity and third-party apps: Decide if you will be connecting the heart-rate monitor to your smartphone or if you plan on connecting it to other devices. This will influence whether you want it to have ANT Plus or Bluetooth connectivity. Most come with both, but it's still important to check.Strap width: Before you buy, consider whether you'd be more comfortable with a heart-rate tracker that uses a slim strap or a wider one.Module size: Some chest straps use tiny modules (the plastic puck-like part) that don't extend over the edges of the strap. Others, however, use larger monitors to measure your heart rate. Which style you choose to track your workout depends on your comfort preference.Internal storage: If you don't like to hold your smartphone during your workout, opt for a heart-rate training monitor that can store your data in its own built-in storage. You can later transfer your heart rate reading to your phone via your monitor's companion app.Metrics: Consider what you want to monitor during your workout. Higher-end models capture real-time data covering everything from run cadence to stride length, as well as things like blood pressure, calorie burn and heart-rate variability to help you reach your fitness goals, while more basic models might track only your heart rate.Battery type: A wearable chest strap monitor can have all kinds of power sources. Some have a rechargeable battery. Others may have super-long battery life, but the battery isn't user-replaceable or rechargeable. Longer battery life is always convenient but there are lots of options. Make sure to check the description for battery life before buying a monitor.Chest strap vs. wrist-worn heart-rate monitors: Chest strap and wrist-worn heart-rate monitors are both used to measure heart rate, but they use different methods to provide readings. Electrical heart-rate sensors, found most commonly in chest strap heart-rate monitors, can detect electrical currents produced by your heart, somewhat similarly to what is done at the doctor's office with an ECG. These are considered the most accurate heart-rate readings because the electrical sensor can handle measuring your heart rate even during vigorous activity. Optical heart-rate sensors use an LED light to track your pulse rate in the arteries as blood pumps through them. Optical heart-rate sensors are found in smartwatches and are useful for reading your heart rate while at rest or walking, but are less reliable for high-intensity activity because the readings can be distorted.ANT Plus vs. Bluetooth: Most wrist-worn heart-rate monitors like the Apple Watch use Bluetooth, which only lets you connect to one device. For example, if you're recording an outdoor run, you can only connect your Apple Watch to your iPhone. ANT Plus technology lets you wirelessly connect to multiple devices at once. This is a good option for athletes who are trying to track data from multiple sources. You can find this form of technology on devices like chest strap heart-rate monitors, indoor or outdoor bike computers and some smartwatches. If you're planning on using a device that uses only ANT Plus technology and you want to connect it to your smartphone, know that some Androids have ANT Plus technology capabilities, while iPhones do not. To find out if your device is capable of connecting to your Android, you have to find the ANT Plus Plugins app in the Google Play store and browse its compatible device directory. If you have an iPhone or an Android that can't connect to your ANT Plus device, you will need an adapter to add to your phone. Most people prefer the Bluetooth option because it connects faster and it's easily found on most devices. The good news is there are many heart-rate monitors that include both ANT Plus and Bluetooth to make the user experience easier.
Heart-rate monitor FAQs
Are heart-rate monitors accurate?
This depends on the type of device you're using to track your heart rate. Chest strap heart-rate monitors tend to provide the most accurate readings.
Show more
Are chest strap or wrist-worn heart-rate monitors more accurate?
Studies have found chest strap heart-rate monitors tend to be more accurate, but some wrist-worn heart-rate monitors like the Apple Watch are improving their software and may eventually be as accurate.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Also written by
Valerie Cholet
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.