Why cheap multitools are a scam - and which ones I actually trust | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Why cheap multitools are a scam - and which ones I actually trust
Looking for a premium multitool that won't scam you? I've got two recommendations.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 12:00 p.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
A good multitool can be a reliable companion for decades (as long as you don't lose it!). Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysStick with Leatherman or Gerber for reliable multitools.Warranty and repairability matter more than cheap prices.Replaceable cutters extend your multitool's lifespan.I like having a good multitool close at hand at all times. While they can't replace a proper toolkit, I don't fancy carrying a full toolkit with me when I'm out and about. Many of my readers are like me, often finding themselves doing random and unplanned DIY tasks throughout the day, so having a portable toolkit that can handle the basics is essential.Also: Storms and bad weather? How to prep your tech ahead of possible emergenciesNot a week goes by without someone asking for my multitool recommendations. My advice is always the same: check out what Leatherman or Gerber has to offer, and ignore the rest. Why do I recommend these brands?Two reasons: warranty and repairability. Take my trusty Leatherman Free P4. I chose this one for three reasons: it has all the tools I need, the wire cutters are user-replaceable so I don't need to warranty the tool to get them fixed, and it comes with a long 25-year warranty.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Leatherman Free P4 This is my favorite, trusty multitool.
details
View at Amazon And these are real warranties. I know because I've had to use them a few times over the years. I use and misuse my tools -- after all, any tool can be a substitute for a hammer if you're creative enough! As a result, I've managed to break a few blades and even the pliers. But each time, the issue was dealt with promptly and to my complete satisfaction. Also: This $12 gadget has become a permanent accessory on my keychain - here's whyAssuming you don't lose your multitool -- don't be like the guy writing this, who managed to lose two multitools in as many years -- you'll have a reliable companion for decades.The next thing to consider is repairability. The wire cutters on every multitool I've owned get absolutely hammered. I use them not only to cut wire but also to chomp through small bolts, nibble through metal, and gnaw through screws. They experience a very hard life. Therefore, these parts need to be user-replaceable. Otherwise, I'd be replacing or warranting the tool each time the cutters get mangled.
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETFortunately, you can get replacement cutters for Leatherman and Gerber multitools. The cutters are easy to replace, allowing you to get your tool back to an as-new state in no time.
Also: Why this $25 ratchet tool beats any multitool or Swiss Army Knife I've ever testedI replaced the cutters on my Leatherman in about five minutes for about $12.
ZDNET's buying advice Personally, I don't recommend wasting money on cheap multitools. It's a false economy and a classic case of 'buy cheap, buy twice.' I've been sent dozens for testing, and they've all been poor quality, disappointing, or even dangerous. That's why I don't recommend them and have opted for the Leatherman multitool instead. Also: I expected this cheap multitool to be a waste of money, but it's my new a toolbox essentialSome people have told me they'd buy a cheap one for the car or home to use in an emergency. However, the last thing you want to rely on in an emergency is a cheap tool!
Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This $30 multitool took on way more than I thought it could (and it fits in my pocket)
Why I can't live without this magnetic USB-C accessory - and all the devices it can charge
I bought this $15 cordless screwdriver just for fun - then it totally impressed me
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use