Rare Apple-1 with storied ownership could fetch over $300,000 at auction — unit housed in original wood case thought to be one of just nine surviving examples | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Gaming PCs
This pre-built Zotac gaming PC with an RTX 5080 is $950 off and cheaper than buying the parts yourself
Artificial Intelligence
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
Gaming PCs
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Retro Gaming
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Retro Gaming
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Desktops
$9 Goodwill PC find earns congratulations from enthusiasts
Desktops
Apple iMac G3 made from Lego has a chance to become an official retail set
PC Building
Luxury PC company Maingear launches '90's style Retro95 beige PC
Mechanical Keyboards
Norbauer's $8,000 keyboard waitlist climbs to 9 months
Macbooks
Rumored $599-$699 MacBook could be in the works
CPUs
Apple M1 Pro, once a flagship, now feels more like a $12 hair clip
PC Building
Bargain of the century? Lucky Goodwill shopper pays $30 for a PC, finds $1,200 RTX 3080 Ti and $400 Ryzen 7 inside
Retro Gaming
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
PC Cases
Free mini-ITX case made of semi-transparent plastic debuts, stock evaporates instantly
PC Cases
Silverstone's retro PC FLP02 case launches for $220
PC Components
PC Cases
Rare Apple-1 with storied ownership could fetch over $300,000 at auction — unit housed in original wood case thought to be one of just nine surviving examples
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
16 September 2025
Join the auction live on Saturday at 1pm EST, to bid, or just see the conclusion.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: RR Auctions)
A rare and fully functional Apple-1 with its rare Byte Shop wooden case is up for auction right now. Thought to be one of just nine surviving samples remaining in the original wood case, bidding on Lot #7083 will conclude on Saturday, September 20, 2025. You can join the RR Auctions Remarkable Rarities event in person at 1 pm EST (Boston, MA), by phone, or online (worldwide).
(Image credit: RR Auctions)The estimate for this wooden tech history marvel from 1976 is $300,000+. It has already achieved $144,311 in pre-live bidding.As mentioned in the intro, this is a fully functional Apple-1, and it also comes with “all components and accessories required for operation,” according to the listing. Alongside the computer, in good working condition, you will get a cassette interface, keyboard, monitor, and software. These are all original and era-appropriate.
You may like
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
The set includes:Original Apple-1 board, marked on the reverse with "01-0020"Original Apple Cassette Interface (ACI) boardOriginal Byte Shop wooden case with built-in Datanetics keyboard and Triad power supplyPeriod-correct video monitor and associated cablesPeriod-correct copies of software on cassette tapes, with contemporary handwritten notes and instructionsModern copy of the Apple-1 Operation ManualAs it stands, this rare computer would be a desirable item, but its appeal is lifted further because it was owned by the first female graduate of Stanford Law School, June Blodgett Moore.The condition of the computer is graded at 8.0/10 by the auction house. As such an old tech artifact, there are issues impacting the score. For example, RR Auctions notes a hairline crack on part of the case and a section of rear paneling that has been removed to provide access to cabling.Image 1 of 3(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)Inside, this Apple-1 is a great period example. The auctioneers point out that the PCB is marked ‘Apple Computer 1, Palo Alto, Ca. Copyright 1976’ and its breadboard prototyping area “is untouched and the green coat exhibits some minor scuffs but minimal peeling, unlike many Apple-1 boards.” Other points of note are its white ceramic MOS 6502 processor and all three original Sprague 'Big Blue' capacitors. Some power supply diodes have been replaced, but carefully swapped with period-correct replacements.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Image 1 of 2(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)Wooden case historyThe wooden case seen used for this model was implemented to elevate the Apple-1 beyond being a Homebrew Computer Club kit aimed at DIYers. The Byte Shop in Mountain View, California, insisted on completed kits being supplied for its retail operation. Steve Jobs and Steve ‘Woz’ Wozniak complied by supplying 50 units in this wooden case. It would be one of the first personal computers available to consumers that didn’t require assembly.The retail deal meant that The Byte Shop bought 50 Apple-1 computers in wood cases for $500 a piece, and resold them at $666.66. Wozniak would recount, “That was the biggest single episode in all of the company's history. Nothing in subsequent years was so great and so unexpected.”Steven Jobs CheckAnother Apple-flavored auction that concludes on Saturday is for a 'Steven Jobs' signed Apple Computer Company check. The check was drawn up for $10 on June 25, 1976. At this time, the company was still operating from the Jobs family garage.
(Image credit: RR Auctions)This check is encapsulated and graded as a ‘Mint 9’ and was expected to fetch $25,000. However, it has already hit $24,655 in pre-live bidding, so it should go somewhat higher on SaturdayFollow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See more PC Cases News
TOPICS
Apple
See all comments (0)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
$9 Goodwill PC find earns congratulations from enthusiasts
Apple iMac G3 made from Lego has a chance to become an official retail set
Latest in PC Cases
Silverstone's retro PC FLP02 case launches for $220
Cougar introduces ‘floating’ mid-tower PC case
Compact copper-encased 14.2-liter PC system weighs 47.4 pounds, doesn't need fans for cooling
Corsair's stylish Frame 4000D RS ARGB falls to $109 for Labor Day — a budget-friendly box to build in at a great price
Free mini-ITX case made of semi-transparent plastic debuts, stock evaporates instantly
Montech HS01 Pro Case Review: excellent GPU cooling and dual exhaust
Latest in News
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks
Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
xAI's new gas turbine facility gets halfway to Elon Musk's 1-gigawatt 'AI factory' goal
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.