Best Gifts Available on Amazon: From $10 to $250 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Gift Guide Tech
The Best Gifts on Amazon That Actually Aren't Junk: From $25 to $250
Our editorial experts have sifted through thousands of products on Amazon to find gifts that are truly worth your money -- and can make your recipient's life better every day.
Article updated on Sep 25, 2025
James Bricknell Senior Editor James has been writing about technology for years but has loved it since the early 90s. While his main areas of expertise are maker tools -- 3D printers, vinyl cutters, paper printers, and laser cutters -- he also loves to play board games and tabletop RPGs. Expertise 3D printers, maker tools such as Cricut style vinyl cutters and laser cutters, and traditional paper printers Credentials 6 years working professionally in the 3D printing space / 4 years testing consumer electronics for large websites.
See full bio
Written by James Bricknell
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Best Amazon gifts under $25
Echo Dot hanger The Echo Dot is in just about every home in America, right? You can't seem to go anywhere without seeing two or three of them scattered around on people's desks or kitchen counters. They can be difficult to place if you have limited counter space. So I use this plug-in Echo Dot hanger, and it helps to declutter, especially as the cords and charging block fit neatly inside the hanger, too.
$18 at Amazon
Close
Culture
Kitchen Gizmo Snap N' Strain clip-on colander Many home cooks have tried to balance a pot lid so that it's open just enough to pour water or oil through, but not enough to let the food fall out. Sometimes, it works -- often, it doesn't. This cool little gadget makes that entire process easier by clipping to the edge of your pot or pan and acting like a colander to strain off liquid without losing the most important part -- your delicious food.
$12 at Amazon
Close
Japanese Kit Kat variety pack
Did you know that Kit Kats in other countries taste very different from American Kit Kats? It's true, and Japan takes it to a whole new level with tons of different flavors, including apple, orange -- even sweet potato. This variety pack may seem a little pricey for candy bars, but if you have a chocolate lover in your life, they will likely appreciate this as a gift.
$23 at Amazon
Close
Home Deals
Newlam Kalimba thumb piano My son loves to play the piano, but it isn't the easiest thing to carry around. This fun little Kalimba lets him plink away at something that offers a small, but beautiful, sound when we're out and about and the urge to be musical strikes him.
$24 at Amazon
Close
Tech
Senseo 25-piece drawer organizer set This is one of the many cases of "TikTok made me buy it" that you'll see while looking for gifts this year. My wife and I ended up buying several sets of these to organize everything from our pantry to our bathroom drawers. These kinds of organizers aren't the first thing people think of to buy themselves, which makes them a great gift.
$20 at Amazon
Close
Tech
D&D Starter Kit I'm an avid tabletop gamer and I love giving these starter kits out to friends and family. Many people want to learn about Dungeons & Dragons but don't know where to begin. This box has everything you need to start your first adventure. Imagination is the key to a good D&D campaign, but you also need rules and dice. This set gives you both.
$18 at Amazon
Close
Tech
CMY Cube (50mm) Seeing the CMY Cube in person for the first time is almost magical. On the surface, it's a glass cube with the colors of cyan, magenta and yellow -- hence the name CMY Cube -- but as you spin it around, the colors mix, showing you more colors in the spectrum. I'm sure there are a lot of benefits to teaching color theory, and I know that it can help stimulate children with learning difficulties, but my main reason for giving this as a gift is its sheer joy. It's a simple cube that fires my imagination -- and I love it.
$21 at Amazon
Close
Kitchen & Household
Stanley Aerolight Transit Bottle Stanley is a popular drinking vessel of choice -- and for good reason. It's known for keeping beverages hot or cold for hours on end. The Stanley Aerolight Transit Bottle is CNET's top choice for the best travel coffee mug, thanks to its excellent heat retention and thoughtfully designed flip mechanism. It's also the recipient of a CNET Editors' Choice Award.
$23 at Amazon
Close
Best Amazon gifts under $50
Misc
Govee smart light bars These smart lights from Govee will add an ambient light behind your
giftee's TV or gaming rig -- and can even move to the music. With the Govee app, they can select the color and brightness they'd like. Govee has managed to build a strong reputation for delivering excellent quality products on a budget, and these lights show why. They feel a lot more expensive than they are and your gift recipient is sure to be impressed.
$50 at Amazon
Close
Sleep Tech
Vibes reusable ear plugs If you spend any time at concerts, in loud public spaces or even in the theater, you’ll know that the sound can become overwhelming. These earplugs from Vibes are super lightweight, easy to reuse and reduce the incoming noise level without muffling the sounds. I was at a massive Oasis concert this year, and the Vibes killed a lot of the excess noise without me losing the mad vocals from Liam, or Noel's guitar shredding.
$35 at Amazon
Close
Tech
GoCube Playing games with your kids can be incredibly rewarding, and so can playing games by yourself. The GoCube gives you the chance to do both. I've always wanted to know how to complete a Rubik's cube, but could never get the hang of it. The GoCube connects to your phone or tablet and takes you through the steps of solving a cube using "algorithms." It's the first time I've felt I had a handle on manipulating a puzzle cube without it being completely random. Learning a new skill as a dad, especially one that can impress your kids, is always worthwhile -- and the app even lets you play battle games with your kids to make it more family-oriented.
$50 at Amazon
Close
Tech
Anker Nano II 65W Over the last few years, phone makers have stopped including charging bricks with new phone purchases. It makes sense, but it means people are using outdated chargers that can't keep up with their phone's maximum charging speed. Make sure your loved ones have a power brick worthy of the latest and greatest device with this fast 65-watt charger from Anker. It's way faster than those offered by almost any standard manufacturer.
$30 at Amazon
Close
Home
Preserved flower bouquets Getting a lovely bunch of flowers is always nice, but they rarely last longer than a week or so. I found this beautiful bouquet of preserved roses for my wife for Valentine's Day, and they've lasted the whole year looking as fresh as ever. They may not actually be "eternal," but they're real, and will last several years, bringing beauty and joy that whole time.
$27 at Amazon
Close
Smart Home
Asakuki Smart Wi-Fi essential oil diffuser If you know someone who loves the spa -- or at least all its fragrant scents, like eucalyptus and lavender -- this is for them. Plus, they can power it from their smart speaker, like Amazon Echo or Google Home. This model also made CNET's pick for the best essential oil diffuser.
$30 at Amazon
Close
Tech
Keissco compact stainless steel wine opener Opening wine bottles can be an unpredictable, tricky process. Many people -- my wife included -- still use the old twist corkscrew to open bottles and invariably get some cork in the wine. This kind of opener solves that issue and greatly speeds up cork removal. It also looks really clean and sleek with the stainless steel and black finish. I ended up buying one for my wife and she likes it enough to want to use it more often.
$39 at Amazon
Close
Misc
GoDice D20 No matter how good virtual tabletop games get, using a physical die to resolve a tense roll just feels better. I used to point my webcam into a dice box so everyone online could see the roll happen, but with a GoDice D20, I don't have to. This smart die connects to my phone and shares my die roll with Roll20, FoundryVTT and even Discord. All you need to do is log in to your tabletop gaming app of choice and connect your GoDice, and the roll in real life quickly becomes a roll in the virtual space. It also lights up in fun colors when you hit a 20 or a 1, making it extra fun for the people in the room with you too.
$40 at Amazon
Close
Best Amazon gifts under $100
Media Streamers
Roku Streambar SE For that gadget-obsessed person in your life who seems to have everything, consider a soundbar. The Roku Streambar SE is an optimal choice for boosting the quality of their home theater experience. Not only is it budget-friendly, but it's ultra-compact, easy to set up and offers decent sound for its small size.
$79 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$80 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Misc
Clorox tabletop air purifier This little tabletop air purifier is small enough to not be intrusive but large enough to filter a good-sized room twice an hour. It can remove animal dander and can significantly reduce mold spores, viruses and bacteria in the air. If you know someone who works from home in a stuffy office all day, this little device can make them feel a lot better.
$70 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Tribit XSound Plus 2 A portable wireless speaker is a great gift for the music lover in your life. The Tribit XSound Plus 2 is one of our top choices for a budget-friendly Bluetooth speaker. It offers surprisingly good sound for its size and price, and it's fully waterproof.
$59 at Amazon
Close
Groove Life belt with magnetic buckle A good belt is an investment. I know that seems overblown, but it's true. I have some really good belts that I've owned for 20 years, and they're still going strong. The Groove Life belt feels like that. The buckle on the one I tested is a walnut veneer that looks great and the magnetic clasp holds everything together tightly. The belt material is tough but has a little give. The stretch isn't so much that your pants fall down if you have heavy stuff in your pockets, but it has enough room to breathe when that meal is a little bigger than you thought.
$65 at Amazon
Close
Mobile Accessories
Apple AirTags If you know someone who travels frequently or misplaces things all the time, this is the perfect gift. These little item trackers can be slipped into purses, luggage and wallets, or attached to keys and many other things. With four of them in this pack, they can put them in multiple spots for easy tracking.
$80 at Amazon
Close
Silonn ice maker I think we can all agree that ice-cold drinks are delicious. This little ice maker is incredibly easy to operate, and because it doesn't tap directly into your water line, you can put it anywhere. All you have to do is fill it with bottled or filtered water and it will make delicious clear ice -- in two different sizes, no less -- whenever you need it.
$66 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Victrola portable suitcase Bluetooth record player Vinyl records never really go out of fashion, as they give an audio experience that's hard to match in today's digital age. Victrola makes a line of budget-friendly vinyl players that keep that retro feel while adding in some modern smarts, like Bluetooth connectivity. The onboard sound is only average, the outputs let you connect it to a proper set of speakers that offer a rich and enjoyable sound.
$70 at Amazon
Close
Best Amazon gifts under $250
Headphones
Shokz OpenFit 2 Most people already own earbuds, but do they have a pair that's specifically designed for running and working out? CNET audio expert David Carnoy rated Shokz's OpenFit 2 the best earbuds for running in 2025, thanks to their comfortable, secure fit and great audio.
$180 at Amazon
$180 at Best Buy
$180 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Misc
Hatch Restore 3 Help your giftee wake up more naturally -- versus a blaring beep-beep-beep -- with this sunrise alarm clock. The Hatch Restore 3 is the recipient of a CNET Editors' Choice Award and our pick for the best sunrise alarm clock. It offers a wide range of hues that you can customize to perfect your sunrise of choice. And you can pair it with over 80 soothing sounds.
$170 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Meater 2 Plus The first time I saw the Meater 2 Plus, I knew I had to use it. I live in southern California, and the weather is pretty much always good enough to throw a rack of ribs or a spatchcock chicken on the grill. I do a lot of cooking out in the backyard, but it takes a long time to cook. You really want to cook slowly and evenly on a grill to keep the juices in. The Meater 2 Plus lets me put the temperature probe into the meat, close the grill lid and maintain a connection to my phone. Not only is the connection tremendous, but if you tell the app what meat you're cooking, it can work out the resting time too, giving you a perfect piece of meat every time. The update to the Meater 2 means it can be much closer to the heat, including deep frying turkeys.Read more: Meater 2 Plus hands-on
$130 at Amazon
Close
Misc
RayNeo Pocket TV If, like me, you get fed up with the terrible choices on hotel TVs, and you want something you can travel with that has all your settings already, try the Pocket TV from RayNeo. Originally designed to work with the RayNeo Smart glasses, the output is just USB-C, meaning it will work with any USB-C monitor or, if you have a USB-C to HDMI cable, any standard TV. The Pocket TV is Google TV-powered, meaning it's easy to navigate. It also has 64GB storage and room for an SD card, so you can save your shows for offline travel on a plane. I've used it a lot with the RayNeo glasses and it's a fantastic little ecosystem for watching your favorite shows privately while traveling.
$129 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Beats Studio Pro If you know someone who's always wanted a pair of Beats headphones, then these are the perfect gift. The battery life is up to 24 hours (ANC on) and 40 hours (ANC off). They’re also our pick for best Beats headphones, and as CNET’s David Carnoy says, “I'm tempted to describe them as more affordable plastic versions of the AirPods Max.” You be the judge. Read our Beats Studio Pro review to learn more about their sound quality and performance.
$250 at Amazon
Close
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
The Best Gifts on Amazon That Actually Aren't Junk: From $25 to $250
By
James Bricknell
28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life
By
Jennifer Krazit
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.