Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory job with University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
| 12844918
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
Employer
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Location
Miami, Florida (US)
Salary
Compensation Grade A9
Closing date
16 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Chemistry
Job Type
Postdoctoral,
Researcher
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
The Nima Sharifi Laboratory is seeking to recruit outstanding postdoctoral associates with a primary interest in the fundamental mechanisms of human biology, biochemistry, metabolism, genetics, or medicinal and analytical chemistry. These positions present exceptional opportunities to partner with an outstanding clinical urology program in a new institute dedicated to rapidly translating basic discoveries to the clinic. The overarching goal of the institute’s research program is to define the underlying biochemical and clinical behavior of genitourinary cancers, in order to identify new strategies that will ultimately lead to durable clinical benefits.
The Sharifi laboratory focuses on mechanistic discovery to understand the metabolic and molecular mechanisms of androgen synthesis and other areas of steroid metabolism that lead to resistance to hormonal therapy.  Our work is revealing fundamental endocrine mechanisms in both normal physiology and disease, including stress, aging, and glucocorticoid resistance, with broad applications to oncology and cancer physiology.
More information can be found online at nimasharifilab.com and candidates should submit a CV and summary of their research interests via e-mail to DSUIscience@miami.edu.
Specific research areas include:
Metabolic and genetic changes required for hormone therapy resistance in prostate and breast cancers
Discovery of entirely new mechanisms of endocrine physiology and regulation
Clinical validation in patients and clinical trials using innovative approaches
Identifying targets for the development of new pharmacologic therapies
Drug discovery for novel therapeutic targets
We discovered the first example of a gain-of-function in a steroid-synthesizing enzyme that enables prostate cancer resistance to hormonal therapy (Chang, et al. Cell. 2013;154:1074-84). We also discovered that abiraterone works by conversion to a more active steroidal metabolite (Li, et al. Nature. 2015;523:347-51), that metabolism is pharmacologically modifiable to optimize therapy (Li, et al. Nature. 2016;533:547-51) and that these events are a class effect of steroidal androgen synthesis inhibitors (Alyamani, et al. Cell Chem Biol. 2017;24:825-32) and genetic determination of metabolite generation (Alyamani, et al. J Clin Invest. 2018;128:3333-40). We reported that blockade of hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase normalizes glucocorticoid metabolism and reverses enzalutamide resistance, credentialing a new pharmacologic vulnerability (Li, et al. Sci Transl Med 13; 2021. Most recently, we reported that the BMX kinase controls the same steroid-synthesizing enzyme that enables treatment resistance, thus indicating potential new treatment vulnerabilities for sex steroid-dependent cancers (Li, et al. J Clin Invest. 2023;133(2):e163498).
This position is ideal for an individual with a strong interest in rapid translation of basic mechanistic discoveries to the bedside as this is a principal goal of the Sharifi Laboratory. For example, we have shown that our discovery of a gain-of-function in a steroid-synthesizing enzyme is a predictive biomarker of poor outcomes after hormonal therapy (Hearn, et al. Lancet Oncol. 2016;17:1435-44; JAMA Oncol. 2018;4:558-62; JAMA Oncol. 2020;6(4):e196496).  We are currently evaluating this biomarker in an active clinical trial and are pursuing similar mechanisms and developing new treatment modalities based on these discoveries.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
NIH Funded Post-Doctoral Fellow, Associate Research Scholar
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Postdoctoral Research Associate
Lowell, Massachusetts
Postdoctoral Research Scientist
New York City, New York (US)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software