California, western states issue COVID vaccine guidelines that break with CDC - CBS San Francisco
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Bay Area
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
Bay Area Top News
SF/Peninsula News
East Bay News
South Bay News
North Bay News
Bay Area Crime
Tech
Health
Politics
LGBTQ
Entertainment
KPIX Special Reports
First Alert Weather
Radars & Maps
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
San Francisco 49ers
San Francisco Giants
Golden State Warriors
Oakland Athletics
San Jose Sharks
Cal
Stanford
College Sports
Station Info
KPIX
What's On KPIX
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Download the App
Galleries
Memorials
Watch CBS News
Health
California, western states issue COVID vaccine guidelines that break with CDC
By
Carlos E. Castañeda
Carlos E. Castañeda
Senior Editor, News & Social Media
Carlos E. Castañeda is a senior editor of news and social media for CBS Bay Area.
Read Full Bio
Carlos E. Castañeda
Updated on:
September 17, 2025 / 11:08 PM PDT
/ CBS San Francisco
California, other western states brake from CDC, issue own vaccine guidlines
California, other western states brake from CDC, issue own vaccine guidlines
02:18
California, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington on Wednesday issued unified recommendations on COVID-19, influenza and RSV vaccines that differ from those issued by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.   Governors of the states, which make up the newly-formed West Coast Health Alliance, said in a joint press statement that their alliance was "fighting back against the Trump administration's assault on science." Earlier this month, the states announced the formation of the alliance as a response to what it called the "weaponization" of the CDC, spearheaded by Health Secretary and vocal vaccine critic Robert F. Kennedy Jr.Kennedy's moves included firing all 17 members of the CDC's vaccine recommendations committee and replacing them with apointees that include vaccine skeptics, and rolling back recommendations on who should receive COVID vaccines."Public health leaders warn these moves dismantle independent, science-based oversight and inject politics into decisions that protect Americans' health — undermining the CDC's credibility at a moment when trust and clarity are most needed," the alliance said Wednesday.  The West Coast Health Alliance's recommendations for respiratory viruses say the COVID vaccine should be given to "all who choose protection," and specifically children 6 months to 23 months old, all adults over 65, those younger than 65 with risk factors, and anyone pregnant or planning to get pregnant.
The recommendations largely mirror what the CDC previously advised until this year, when Kennedy announced the CDC would no longer recommend the COVID vaccine for children and pregnant women.U.S. Health and Human Services spokesperson Andrew Nixon criticized the alliance's recommendations in a statement to the Associated Press."Democrat-run states that pushed unscientific school lockdowns, toddler mask mandates, and draconian vaccine passports during the COVID era completely eroded the American people's trust in public health agencies," Nixon said. "HHS will ensure policy is based on rigorous evidence and Gold Standard Science, not the failed politics of the pandemic."  The alliance also recommended that everyone 6 months and older get a flu vaccine, and that all babies, people 50-74 years old with risk factors, and everyone 75 and	older receive the RSV vaccine.
Separately, California Governor Gavin Newsom announced he had signed a new law, AB 144, which allows the state to base future immunization guidance on independent medical organizations rather than the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. The law is designed to address which vaccines health insurance companies will cover, since insurers typically cover only those vaccines recommended by ACIP.Wednesday's announcement by the Western states comes on the same day former CDC chief Susan Monarez told a Senate committee that she was fired by Kennedy for refusing to pre-approve childhood vaccine guidance regardless of the scientific data and refusing to dismiss career officials responsible for vaccine policy, without cause.  Other states, including Colorado, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Mexico, and Pennsylvania have issued COVID vaccine guidelines that differ from the CDC. Meanwhile, Florida this month announced it would be the first state to phase out all childhood vaccine mandates.
More from CBS News
California congressional Democrats speak out after ABC pulls Jimmy Kimmel off air
Lake Tahoe neighbors protest California plan to euthanize mother bear Hope after home break-ins
California lawmaker releases body camera video after claiming unlawful arrest by Sacramento police
Sacramento State to break ground on new Hornet Place student housing
Sierra College workshop helps job seekers break into state careers
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
COVID-19 Vaccine
Vaccine
COVID-19
CDC Guidelines
Carlos E. Castañeda
Carlos E. Castañeda is a senior editor of news and social media for CBS Bay Area.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Newsom signs sweeping bills on climate, California energy affordability, oil production
Cupertino Whole Foods store cleared to reopen months after rodent infestation
Benicia water pipeline damaged; residents and businesses told to conserve
Mt. Diablo High School in Concord plays 1st home game after fire damages football field
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
KPIX Bay Area
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KPIX-TV
Public File for KPYX / KPIX+
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue