The 8 Best Exercises Personal Trainers Recommend for Every Workout - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Exercising
Add These 8 Trainer-Approved Exercises to Your Routine Immediately
Start your fitness journey with these simple and effective exercises.
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Sept. 15, 2025
2:00 a.m. PT 7 min read
Get the most out of your workout with these trainer-approved moves. Kazuma Seki/Getty Images
Getting started with strength training can feel like a lot, especially with all the different exercises and conflicting advice out there. So, to make things simple, we went straight to the people who know best: certified personal trainers and coaches. We had them narrow down the best exercises for building strength and endurance. The best part? Every single exercise they chose can be easily adjusted to fit your current fitness level, so you can jump in no matter where you're starting from.1. DeadliftsThe deadlift is a compound exercise that has you lifting heavy weight off the floor by bending at the hips and standing back up. There are plenty of variations to choose from, whether you're a beginner or a seasoned weightlifter. Some variations include the kettlebell deadlift, Romanian deadlift, conventional deadlift, stiff-legged deadlift, sumo deadlift and trap bar (or hex bar) deadlift.
"The deadlift is a great exercise because it helps strengthen the core, back, shoulders, arm muscles, as well as your glutes, quads, hamstrings and calves," says John Gardner, a NASM-certified personal trainer. He explains that the deadlift is an essential exercise that stimulates the upper and lower body simultaneously, allowing more muscles to be engaged at the same time. "You'll be burning more calories as well as making it an extremely time-efficient exercise," he says. As a result of doing deadlifts, your posture will also improve because of the way it targets your back muscles and shoulders.  If you plan on deadlifting, have a personal trainer or experienced weightlifter observe your form. One common mistake people make when performing deadlifts is squatting (and bending the knees too much) instead of hinging at the hips. Another mistake is arching or rounding the back instead of engaging the upper body and core muscles. This can lead to a lower back injury because of the pressure it causes on your back. You also need to be mindful not to overextend your neck and head and should keep it in a straight line.  If you have a history of chronic back issues, a spine injury or are pregnant, it's best to consult with your doctor or personal trainer first before doing this exercise.
2. Push-upsThe push-up is beneficial for building up your upper body strength and targets your chest, triceps, back and shoulders. Although it's a well-known exercise, it's also one that is commonly performed incorrectly -- even by experienced exercisers.  "The nice thing about the push-up is that it can easily be modified to fit your skill level," says Dr. Brittany Noel Robles, a certified personal trainer and OB-GYN. Some modifications include doing a push-up against the wall, or with your hands elevated on an incline to make it more challenging. Once you've mastered the push-up from these angles, you can take it to the floor and practice them through changing up the tempo or your hand positioning.  "Everyone should include push-ups in their workout because they are a functional exercise that translates into real-world situations," says Robles. "Specifically, the push-up trains the functional movement pattern of horizontal pushing, or the ability to push objects away from you."
3. Pallof pressThe Pallof press is an anti-rotation movement that limits the rotation of your spine. It's considered a core strength training exercise that can be easily done using a cable machine or resistance band. "Your transverse abdominis, or your internal belt, helps secure your low back as a deep muscle in your core," says James Shapiro, an LA-based sports performance coach. "By activating it more and becoming stronger, you'll be able to increase your strength in compound movements and increase activation in your rectus (your six-pack)." There are variations that allow you to efficiently work out your core. To perform this motion you'll need a resistance band tied to a power rack (or a sturdy base) or a cable machine with a handle set up depending on whether you'll be standing or kneeling. You can do this movement by standing in a staggered stance, half-kneeling or tall-kneeling on the ground. If you have lower back issues, the Pallof press can be performed either seated or on your back on the floor. Shapiro recommends that beginners start with very light weight and hold the position as they breathe.
4. Inverted rowThe inverted row is an exercise that beginners and advanced exercisers can do to strengthen their upper back. It also improves scapular retraction, which can help prepare you to do pull-ups if your goal is to master them. Typically the inverted row can be done using TRX suspension straps or using the bar from a barbell positioned on a rack above you while you're in an angled horizontal position. Your arms should fully extend above you, while keeping your body hovered above the floor.  "To make the inverted row more challenging, you can lower the bar, walk your feet forward, raise your feet up on a box or add weight," says Chris Matsui, a certified strength conditioning specialist and USA Weightlifting coach. If you need a modification, he suggests walking your feet further back, raising the bar up or bending your knees.
5. Split squatsThe split squat is a single leg exercise that forces you to use your core for balance. It targets your glutes, quads and hamstrings. There are also several ways to do them to make them easier or harder, depending on your fitness level. "It's not a technical exercise, so it's easier to do with less compensation patterns to worry about," Matsui says. The split squat can be done using dumbbells, a barbell, kettlebells or your own bodyweight. To make the exercise harder, you can place the back foot on an elevated surface to perform a Bulgarian split squat (another variation of the split squat) or to modify it, you can keep your back foot on the floor and use your own bodyweight.
6. Dumbbell squat to pressThe dumbbell squat to press, also known as a thruster, is a compound exercise that starts in a front squat position and ends in an overhead press. This full body movement can be done using dumbbells, a barbell or kettlebells. It's a power exercise intended to be performed quickly as you move from a squat to press.  "From a conditioning standpoint, with adequate weight and the right tempo, this full-body movement can really jack up the cardiovascular demand," says Shinekwa Kershaw, a personal trainer at Blink Fitness. She suggests that if you have knee limitations make sure to only squat to parallel or just above that. This can also be performed as a seated squat on a box or chair. If you have issues overhead pressing, another option Kershaw suggests is doing a squat to bicep curl.
7. SquatsThe traditional squat is an important exercise because it targets the muscles in your lower body, such as your glutes, quads, hamstrings, abdominals -- even your upper body. You can load the squat using dumbbells, barbells, kettlebells and sandbags. "Not only is the squat a functional move that mimics everyday life, such as sitting and standing in a chair, it increases our anabolic hormones and is important for spine and core strength," explains LA-based fitness trainer Natalie Yco. There are also different squat variations such as squat jumps, single leg squats, barbell back squats, front squats, goblet squats, sumo squats and more. "Squats strengthen the muscle around the knee to help prevent knee injuries and may help improve flexibility while moving through a deeper range of motion," says Yco. If you're new to squats and have yet to master the move, Yco suggests trying out wall squats with a stability ball placed between your back and a wall. Start in a standing position with your feet shoulder-width apart and back against the ball, and lower into a seated position by bending your knees at a 90-degree angle. The goal is to keep your lower back firmly against the ball. This modification takes stress off your lower back and makes it easier to squat down.
8. Kettlebell swingKettlebell exercises have become popular even beyond the CrossFit crowd. One exercise in particular that is a favorite among fitness experts is the kettlebell swing. The full-body exercise uses your hips, core, hamstrings, glutes and upper body to produce an explosive movement. It's an excellent way to get cardio in while also strengthening your posterior chain (the back of your body). "I love the two-handed kettlebell swing because it is an exercise that builds total-body strength and also improves your cardiovascular fitness," says Jennifer Conroyd, a certified ACE trainer and USA Track and Field Coach. Before performing the kettlebell swing (or any other kettlebell exercise), you should have an expert with kettlebell training teach you the proper technique. Kettlebell training is all about mastering the technique first before swinging or snatching heavy kettlebells.  "It is truly a phenomenal all-in-one exercise and It's important to focus on good posture and using your hips to generate the movement," says Conroyd. If you're just learning to swing, she suggests modifying the move by decreasing the weight of the kettlebell until you feel comfortable with the movement. If you have shoulder or lower back injuries, you may not be the best candidate for kettlebell swings and should consult your doctor or physical therapist before trying them.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.