4 ways I save money on my favorite AI tool subscriptions - and you can too | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
4 ways I save money on my favorite AI tool subscriptions - and you can too
Want to shell out less money on subscriptions to ChatGPT, Gemini, Copilot, and Perplexity? Here's what I do.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 8:29 a.m. PT
PM Images/DigitalVision/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I subscribe to several generative AIs, both for personal and professional reasons. Those include ChatGPT, Google AI Pro, Copilot through Microsoft 365, and Perplexity AI. But with most of those AIs generally costing $20 a month, subscribing to them all can put a heavy dent into my wallet. That's why I've dug up discounts on these services that save me a fair chunk of change.Here's what I've done to save money on them and how you can do the same.
1. Get a three-month discount on OpenAI's ChatGPT Plus
This trick requires you to try to cancel your ChatGPT Plus subscription. If all goes well, OpenAI should offer you 50% off for three months to retain you as a Plus subscriber. To pull this off, sign in to the ChatGPT website. Click your profile icon at the bottom of the left sidebar and select Settings. At the Settings window, select Account, click the Manage button at the top, and then choose Cancel Subscription.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETA window should pop up telling you that you would pay $30 total for the next three months of ChatGPT Plus, a 50% discount overall. Click the button for Get offer.
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETAt the next screen, click the Pay now button to charge the payment method on file for the three-month discount. A message should pop up telling you that you've successfully claimed the discount. After the three months are up, your plan will automatically renew at the usual price of $20 per month.Also: How people actually use ChatGPT vs Claude - and what the differences tell usSo, you may be wondering, can you keep claiming this discount over and over again? Afraid not, at least not according to OpenAI. This particular offer is a one-time deal per account. So enjoy it while you can.
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
2. Score an employee discount on Microsoft 365 with Copilot
Copilot is now built into the Microsoft 365 Family and Personal plans by default. You can use the AI not only with supported Microsoft Office apps like Word and Excel but with compatible Windows apps such as Notepad and Paint. With Copilot integrated, though, the subscription costs are higher.US subscribers to Microsoft 365 Personal now have to pay $99.99 per year or $9.99 per month, up from $69.99 per year or $6.99 per month. Subscribers to Microsoft 365 Family have to cough up $129.99 per year or $12.99 per month, up from $99.99 per year or $9.99 per month.But there is a way to snag a workplace discount. For this, you have to be an employee or student at an organization that uses Microsoft 365 or have your own domain account that uses Microsoft 365. I fall into the latter category.To set this up, head to the Microsoft Workplace Discount Program website and sign in with your work, student, or domain email address.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETIf you qualify, an email is sent to your address telling you that you're eligible for the discount program. Click the link to sign in and shop. You're then taken to a page for Microsoft 365 showing you the discounted prices for the Family and Personal editions. Click the Buy now button for the version you want to purchase, and your discounted subscription will kick off. To learn how to use Copilot in supported Microsoft 365 apps, check out the following articles:How to use Copilot Pro to write, edit, and analyze your Word documentsHow to use Copilot Pro AI to generate formulas and analyze data in ExcelHow to use Copilot Pro to finetune your PowerPoint presentations7 Copilot tricks to supercharge your classic Outlook - even if they're not for me
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
3. Get half off Google AI Pro with Verizon
Verizon offers its subscribers discounts and savings on a variety of plans and perks, including various bundled steaming services, Apple One, and YouTube Premium. But the one that most appealed to me was for a Google AI Pro plan. With this perk, you're able to save 50% off the cost of Google's basic AI subscription, cutting the price from $20 a month to $10.To take advantage of this one, head to Verizon's Discounts page and make sure you're signed in with your account. Scroll down to the bottom section on getting entertainment you love and click the option for Google AI Pro to see what you get.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETTo bundle Google AI Pro into your subscription with Verizon, sign in to the page for products and perks. Scroll down the screen and select the entry for Google AI Pro. Then add it to your account. At the next screen, view your new subscription cost with Google AI added and confirm your selection. Access to Google AI will then start with the 50% discount.
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETHalf off the subscription is helpful. But if you're a college student, you can snag the same plan for free. Google is now offering eligible students ages 18 and above the Google AI Pro plan for free for 12 months. To pounce on this deal, just head to the Google Gemini Free Pro Plan for Students page and click the button to get the offer.
4. Get a free year of Perplexity Pro
You can capture a free year of Perplexity Pro a few different ways. The AI comes free with the purchase of a Samsung Galaxy device. It's also free to PayPal and Venmo users who sign up for Perplexity's Comet AI web browser. But as a Comcast subscriber, the method I use is to tack it onto my Xfinity plan.To grab this one, sign in to the Xfinity Rewards website. Click the entry for Perplexity Pro and then select the button to get the reward and receive a unique code. Next, browse to the Perplexity website for joining with Xfinity, and the code will automatically be applied.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETFeatured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I got 4 years of product development done in 4 days for $200, and I'm still stunned
10 ChatGPT Codex secrets I only learned after 60 hours of pair programming with it
How people actually use ChatGPT vs Claude - and what the differences tell us
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use