I tested the Apple Watch Ultra 3 to figure out who should upgrade - here's my advice | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
I tested the Apple Watch Ultra 3 to figure out who should upgrade - here's my advice
The Apple Watch Ultra 3 is the company's longest-lasting wearable to date, but there's more to it than endurance.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 16, 2025 at 8:23 p.m. PT
Apple Watch Ultra 3
ZDNET's key takeaways Apple's rugged smartwatch is now available to preorder. The watch gets an additional six hours of battery life for a total of 42 hours of wear. Sleeping with the smartwatch is difficult. View now at Apple Best smartwatch deals of the week
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $85 (save $25)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $200 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch Ultra (Wi-Fi, LTE, 47mm, Titanium Silver):  $500 (save $150)
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 46mm, Black, M/L Sports Band):  $359 (save $70)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Bluetooth, 40mm, Cream):  $200 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.If the new Apple Watch Series 11, Apple's baseline smartwatch, is the girl next door, then Apple's Ultra 3 is the Mt. Kilimanjaro-scaling, rugged neighbor. People might be using the Series 11 to train for their first marathon, but people are certainly using the Ultra 3 to record their fifth Ironman.Apple unveiled its latest rugged smartwatch last week at the annual September iPhone event. The Ultra 3 arrives alongside two Apple Watch options - the affordable SE 3 and the baseline Series 11. Its biggest upgrades come in small but meaningful packages, like a wide-angle display for quicker viewability, longer battery life, and emergency features.Also: The Apple Watch Series 11 is one feature away from making me ditch my Oura RingOver the past week, I tested all three to understand their capabilities, similarities, differences, and who would get the most out of which watch. So, how does the Ultra 3 stack up? Let's dive in.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Apple Watch Ultra 3 The Ultra 3 offers the largest display out of the Apple Watch lineup, 42 hours of battery life, and emergency communication features.
details
View at Apple After a week of use and tinkering, the Ultra 3's biggest selling point is its battery life. Apple includes the S10 chip in the Ultra 3, lengthening its battery life by six additional hours, for a total of 42 with regular use. I'm not religiously proactive about charging my smartwatch, but the 42-hour upgrade kept me ahead of battery drain and made continuous use simple. Its second biggest selling point to the Ultra 3 was Emergency SOS, Location sharing, and messaging through Satellite. ZDNET contributor and hiker extraordinaire, Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, goes on off-grid adventures regularly. He's tested the Apple Watch Ultra 2 on his hiking adventures, sent his location, and used satellite communications during his explorations.
Jason Hiner/ZDNETThe Ultra 2's satellite communications didn't perform as well as his Garmin inReach Messenger or Spot X satellite messenger, though. "It's a faff finding satellites" on the Ultra 2, he tells me. The Ultra 3's upgrade could change that. When used in an emergency, Apple has designed a questionnaire that Ultra 3 users can click through to quickly and effectively receive help. Users can call 911, then select options about their predicament, like whether they're in a car crash, someone is sick, or they're lost. The watch user can describe their situation, like if they're stranded or trapped on steep terrain. Apple also asks to notify emergency contacts through Satellite communications. Also: I compared Apple and Samsung's best smartwatches - here's who wins for nowOnce all this is filled in, the watch will instruct you to move to get a direct connection with the satellites 800 miles above. In my demo, we moved left and right (because the satellites are not stagnant and actively orbiting) to get a proper view of the satellite and send that report. The report includes a user's location, their medical ID, battery level, and the details of the questionnaire. Then, a user is connected with an employee at a relay center for additional assistance. The Satellite connectivity feature could help people on hikes, in emergencies like car crashes, or in rural areas where service is scarce.  Kingsley-Hughes told me that these features are like security blankets that give users peace of mind while they're off-grid. Still, the main sell remains the battery life upgrades. While Emergency SOS via Satellite is a feature that will save Apple's hikers and off-grid adventurers, it's one that could be useful once in a blue moon -- when disaster strikes. But battery life makes a daily difference in the watch's usability and is one reason Adrian and I recommend the new watch.
Apple Watch Ultra 3 (left) and Series 11 (right). Nina Raemont/ZDNETOther nice-to-have features include the Ultra 3's ginormous screen, which could easily function as a standalone phone. It now incorporates a wide-angle OLED display and LTPO3, which improves the display's power and energy efficiency. Typing messages on it was easy, and I could pack tons of complications on the Ultra 3's display.  Like the Series 11, the Ultra 3 also comes with Apple's recently FDA-cleared Hypertension Detection. This feature doesn't provide by-the-minute blood pressure readings. Instead, it uses Apple's PPG sensors to take a 30-day average, which its algorithm determines is either above or below the hypertension threshold. Because I had only a few days with the watch, I wasn't able to use the feature yet. I'll report back in a month once I have further experience with it.Also: Apple just got FDA clearance for Hypertension Detection - does your watch support it?The recently announced Sleep Scores also arrive on the Ultra 3, though this smartwatch, in particular, was the hardest to sleep with. Its bulky nature and huge screen made its existence on my wrist nearly unforgettable throughout the night. This is not the ideal watch for sleep-tracking, and I'd recommend the lighter Series 11 or SE 3 instead. It might not be the best for sleeping, but the Ultra 3 is my favorite watch out of the lineup to exercise in. I get a great view of my exercise stats on the larger screen, and the Action Button makes initiating a workout quick. It's also water-resistant for up to 100m, IP6X dust-resistant, and tested to endure extreme temperatures, shock, altitude, and other rugged conditions. ZDNET's buying adviceWhile the Apple Watch Ultra 3 is certainly Apple's most advanced hardware out of the watch lineup, it's the smartwatch I'd recommend least to the average person due to its high price point. The Ultra has a devout following and user base of rugged exercisers, hikers, and off-grid explorers, and the recent updates will undoubtedly please them. Also: The best smart rings of 2025: I tested and found an obvious winnerI wouldn't say the Ultra 3 is a worthy upgrade for Ultra 2 users, as it shares similar, if not negligible, specs that, in my opinion, don't make the near $800 investment worth it, unless they are chiefly purchasing it for the Emergency SOS through Satellite services or need six more hours of battery, both of which the Ultra 2 does not have. However, the Ultra 3 would be ideal for Ultra users or first-time buyers of rugged smartwatches who want to get the most advanced features Apple offers. I'd recommend the Ultra 3 most to the aforementioned demographic and people intent on using the watch for health-tracking features because the watch offers Apple's whole array of health-tracking features, including sleep apnea detection, blood oxygen monitoring, hypertension detection, ECG, and more. Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice now
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I recommend these models to different users
I compared the two best smartwatches on the market - here's how Apple Watch Series 11 wins
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use