The Dish: Stories about food and life
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
The Dish
Stories about food and life.
Saturday Sessions
CBS Saturday Morning
The Dish: Chef Samir Mohammad
Chef Samir Mohammad and his wife, Rachel, are bringing big time flavor to the small town of Noblesville, Indiana, with 9th Street Bistro, their tiny-but-mighty restaurant with a rotating menu that highlights fresh and local ingredients.
Sep 20
07:03
The Dish: Chef Samir Mohammad
The Dish: Scott Bacon
Scott Bacon is determined to put Baltimore on the culinary map. Bacon, known for his globally inspired and locally sourced cuisine, is the first Black executive chef at the highly acclaimed restaurant Magdalena, inside the city's historic Ivy Hotel. Michelle Miller has more.
Sep 13
06:52
The Dish: Russ & Daughters
Russ & Daughters is a New York institution, and on this episode of "The Dish," learn how three generations have kept the doors open for more than 100 years.
Sep 6
08:02
The Dish: Tatar Bunar
With its Ukrainian-inspired dishes that put a modern twist on some of the country's favorite delicacies, Tatar Bunar is getting rave reviews in London.
Aug 30
06:24
The Dish: Salt & Straw
Salt & Straw began as a small artisanal ice cream shop with funky flavor options. Now, there are more than 40 locations, with offerings like "Peach Jam Miso Blondies" or "Melon and Prosciutto."
Aug 23
07:41
Meet chef Ana Sortun
Chef Ana Sortun is a Seattle native who has made the Boston food scene her own with her restaurant Oleana, which earned her multiple James Beard Award-nominations.
Aug 16
07:56
The origins of the piña colada
Learn about the Puerto Rican origins of one of summer's best drinks.
Aug 9
07:07
The Dish: Viral croissant cereal
L'Appartement 4F is the Brooklyn bakery behind the viral croissant cereal that was on everyone's social media feeds. Meet the couple who has New Yorkers lining up for buttery treats.
Aug 2
07:46
The Dish: Seafood at a New Jersey hideaway
Tucked away in rural New Jersey, Sweet Amalia Market and Kitchen offers fresh seafood and salad to diners in a casual setting.
Jul 26
07:48
The Dish: Pizza
New York native chef Wylie Dufresne has pushed limits in the culinary world. Now, he's getting back to his roots and experimenting with the seemingly-simple, forever classic pizza.
Jul 19
07:21
The Dish: Stissing House
The Hudson Valley's Stissing House serves modern takes wood-fired classics in a 18th-Century tavern, earning the attention of the James Beard Foundation and a spot on Food & Wine's Best Restaurant List.
Jul 5
07:16
The Dish: Lula Cafe
Chicago's Lula Cafe has been around for over 25 years, and focused on locally-sourced food long before it was an industry standard. The James Beard and Michelin Bib Gourmand award winner, helmed by chef Jason Hammel, has stayed true to its roots.
Jun 28
07:23
The Dish: Sal Tang's
In the traditionally Italian-American neighborhood of Carroll Gardens, two well-known men in the New York food scene are trying something new. Sal Lamboglia and Wilson Tang's newest establishment features Cantonese flavors and old-school decor.
Jun 21
06:53
Chef bringing first wine window to NYC
Jack Logue, the executive chef and partner of New York City staple The Lambs Club, is bringing a new project to Times Square: New York City's first wine window.
Jun 14
07:33
The Dish: Chef Anita Lo
Three-time James Beard Foundation-nominated chef Anita Lo is sharing her recipe for marinated steelhead trout. This month, "CBS Mornings" is focusing on recipes by James Beard Award winners in honor of the prize's 35th anniversary.
Jun 10
03:57
The Dish: Aaron Bludorn
Award-winning chef and restaurateur Aaron Bludorn has become a stand-out on Houston's dining scene. He is known for elegant but down-to-Earth fare that combines French and southern flavors, and puts them on display at his four restaurants.
Jun 7
06:47
The Dish: Baba's Pantry
The Middle Eastern restaurant Baba's Pantry opened in 2021, immediately earning accolades with Kansas City diners and tastemakers from around the country. Bon Appétit even deemed it one of the country's best restaurants. Michelle Miller visits an American success story that uses a village to get it all done.
May 31
06:54
The Dish: Steven Raichlen
Steven Raichlen has written more than 30 cookbooks, including "The Barbecue Bible," a comprehensive guide to grilling. He has earned five James Beard Awards for his work. Now, he's taking a look at a new, versatile method of grilling.
May 24
07:00
The Dish: Masala y Maíz
Masala y Maíz, a Mexico City hotspot crafted by a husband and wife duo, is aiming to redefine the restaurant industry. Norma Listman and Saqib Keval blend Indian, Mexican and East African influences to create unexpected flavors.
May 17
08:05
The Dish: Fish Cheeks
It's been nearly a decade since Jenn Saesue and Chat Suansilphong opened Fish Cheeks, an authentic Thai restaurant, in New York City. Next week, their hospitality group will open a second location. Dana Jacobson sat down for a delicious preview.
May 10
07:28
The Dish: John Chantarasak
Anglo Thai is London's only Michelin-starred Thai restaurant. Chef John Chantarasak has drawn on his family history to create an award-winning culintary experience and put a unique spin on Thai food.
Apr 26
06:23
Full Episodes
Full Episodes
The Dish: Husband and wife duos
We meet husband and wife duos who have created their dream restaurants together. We visit an eatery in New York City where authentic Vietnamese fare is served, and we take a trip to Mexico City to learn how one couple has created dishes inspired by Mexican, African and Southeast Asian flavors. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Sep 20
19:54
The Dish: Houston restaurants
We visit the Lone Star State, where four restaurants in Houston are making waves with their flavors. We visit a chef who went on a one-hundred day journey through all twenty-nine Indian states to perfect his recipes, and we meet a powerhouse chef and restaurateur who’s opened multiple restaurants in the five years he’s lived in Houston. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Sep 13
22:21
The Dish: Female chefs
We’re visiting the kitchens of four female chefs paving their ways through the culinary industry, from a visit to the first Black-owned oyster bar in the country to an Atlanta hotspot serving up homemade biscuits. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Sep 6
22:46
The Dish: Fare from the U.K.
We hop across the pond to dine at three extraordinary eateries making a name for themselves, from a restaurant whose chef uses cooking tools from his native Mexico to a London restaurant without a head chef. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Jun 28
21:21
The Dish: East Coast restaurants
We travel the East Coast to experience some delectable cuisine. We stop in New Haven, Connecticut, to learn about their famous pizzerias, and we head to a breakfast joint in Charlotte, North Carolina, combining flavors from the southwest and the owner’s home state of Tennessee. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Jun 21
19:47
The Dish: California restaurants
We meet three trailblazing chefs introducing California diners to new flavors. They include a Los Angeles chef serving up favorites from the Philippines and an Oakland-based chef behind one of the first restaurants serving Indigenous American dishes. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Jun 14
22:55
The Dish: James Beard award-winning chefs
We meet three chefs who have been recognized with the food industry’s highest honor. From a Michelin-starred chef who took six trips back to his home country to finish his latest cookbook, to a chef who went from being an NFL cheerleader to the first Japanese woman to lead the kitchen at Perry’s in Washington, D.C.. Watch these stories and more on "The Dish."
Jun 7
20:10
The Dish: Pastries and pastry chefs
We meet three pastry chefs whose sweet creations are winning over hearts and appetites. We meet a self-taught baker in Baltimore and visit a patisserie bringing a taste of Paris to Brooklyn. Watch these stories and more on "The Dish."
Mar 30
18:31
The Dish: Taquerias
We talk about tacos and the restaurants that bring the mouthwatering cuisine to life. We meet the first-ever taco editor for Texas Monthly magazine, as well as the founder of one of the fastest-growing restaurants in the country, Tacombi. Watch these stories and more on "The Dish."
Mar 23
17:03
The Dish: Manhattan restaurants
We're exploring Manhattan's culinary scene as we meet three chefs blending different flavors and cultures, from a chef crafting fusion dishes to a duo who is serving up a whole new era of fine dining. Watch these stories and more on "The Dish."
Mar 16
21:51
The Dish: Brooklyn fare
We’re visiting three restaurants that are changing the culinary scene in Brooklyn, New York — one meal at a time. From a Persian chef who waited until she was 59 to open her first restaurant to a classic diner with a modern twist in Brooklyn Heights. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Mar 9
19:38
The Dish: Western restaurants
We head West and meet three culinary mavericks redefining fine dining, from an artist-turned-chef in Seattle, Washington, to a chef in Portland, Oregon, who infuses the flavors of Haiti into every dish. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Dec 22, 2024
21:38
The Dish: Southern restaurants
We travel from the bayou to the Lone Star State on a quest for delicious Southern staples, from an Austin hot spot run by Food and Wine's best new chef to an Atlanta restaurant serving the same fried chicken recipe for nearly eight decades. Watch these stories and more on "The Dish."
Dec 15, 2024
19:38
The Dish: Midwest restaurants
We make ourselves at home in the Midwest and meet chefs marrying classic comfort food with contemporary flair. We meet an Algerian-born chef based in Detroit, Michigan, who weaves the flavors of home with the Asian ingredients she discovered during culinary school in China. Plus, we visit a restaurant in Madison, Wisconsin, inspired by Midwestern supper clubs dating from the Prohibition era. Watch these stories and more on "The Dish."
Dec 8, 2024
21:31
The Dish: Northeast restaurants
We explore four restaurants in the Northeast, from a family-run pancake house in western New York, to a Thai eatery in Vermont run by a James Beard Award-winning chef. Watch these stories and more on The Dish.
Dec 1, 2024
21:19
Show More
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue