Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Canada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in crypto
Stay fit and connected — and spend 68% less on an Apple Watch
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityMicrosoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 17, 2025
09:20 AM
0
Microsoft and Cloudflare have disrupted a massive Phishing-as-a-Service (PhaaS) operation, known as RaccoonO365, that helped cybercriminals steal thousands of Microsoft 365 credentials.
In early September 2025, in coordination with Cloudflare's Cloudforce One and Trust and Safety teams, Microsoft's Digital Crimes Unit (DCU) disrupted the cybercrime operation by seizing 338 websites and Worker accounts linked to RaccoonO365.
The cybercrime group behind this service (also tracked by Microsoft as Storm-2246) has stolen at least 5,000 Microsoft credentials from 94 countries since at least July 2024, using RaccoonO365 phishing kits that bundled CAPTCHA pages and anti-bot techniques to appear legitimate and evade analysis.
For instance, a large-scale RaccoonO365 tax-themed phishing campaign targeted over 2,300 organizations in the United States in April 2025, but these phishing kits have also been deployed in attacks against more than 20 U.S. healthcare organizations.
The credentials, cookies, and other data stolen from victims' OneDrive, SharePoint, and email accounts were later employed in financial fraud attempts, extortion attacks, or as initial access to other victims' systems.
"This puts public safety at risk, as RaccoonO365 phishing emails are often a precursor to malware and ransomware, which have severe consequences for hospitals," said Steven Masada, Assistant General Counsel for Microsoft's Digital Crimes Unit.
"In these attacks, patient services are delayed, critical care is postponed or canceled, lab results are compromised, and sensitive data is breached, causing major financial losses and directly impacting patients."
RaccoonO365 has been renting subscription-based phishing kits through a private Telegram channel, which had over 840 members as of August 25, 2025. The prices ranged from $355 for a 30-day plan to $999 for a 90-day subscription, all paid in USDT (TRC20, BEP20, Polygon) or Bitcoin (BTC) cryptocurrency.
RaccoonO365 Telegram channel (Cloudflare)
​Microsoft estimated that the group has received at least $100,000 in cryptocurrency payments so far, suggesting there are approximately 100 to 200 subscriptions; however, the actual number of subscriptions sold is likely much higher.
During its investigation, the Microsoft DCU also found that the leader of RaccoonO365 is Joshua Ogundipe, who lives in Nigeria.
Cloudflare also believes that RaccoonO365 also collaborates with Russian-speaking cybercriminals, given the use of Russian in its Telegram bot's name.
"Based on Microsoft's analysis, Ogundipe has a background in computer programming and is believed to have authored the majority of the code," Masada added.
"An operational security lapse by the threat actors in which they inadvertently revealed a secret cryptocurrency wallet helped the DCU's attribution and understanding of their operations. A criminal referral for Ogundipe has been sent to international law enforcement."
In May, Microsoft also seized 2,300 domains in a coordinated disruption action targeting the Lumma malware-as-a-service (MaaS) information stealer.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
New VoidProxy phishing service targets Microsoft 365, Google accountsMicrosoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in OctoberTarget-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest riskMicrosoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office appsAmazon disrupts Russian APT29 hackers targeting Microsoft 365
Cloudflare
Credential Theft
Microsoft
Microsoft 365
PhaaS
Phishing
Phishing-as-a-Service
RaccoonO365
Storm-2246
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
ShinyHunters claims 1.5 billion Salesforce records stolen in Drift hacks
Google patches sixth Chrome zero-day exploited in attacks this year
Sponsor Posts
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT