Best Reading Glasses to Buy Online in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessPersonal Care Eye Care
Top Reading Glasses to Shop Online in 2025
If small print is starting to look a bit blurry to you, it might be time to invest in a pair of reading glasses.
Our Experts
Written by
Anna Gragert
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Article updated on August 26, 2025 at 3:55 AM PDT
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness. Expertise Mental health, Personal care, Nutrition, Sleep
See full bio
Reviewed by: Troy Mensen, DO Medical Reviewer Dr. Troy Mensen is a family medicine doctor based in the Chicago area. He completed his undergraduate degree at the University of Northern Iowa and his doctorate at Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine. Expertise Family medicine Credentials American Board of Family Medicine, Family MedicineState of Illinois, Medical Examining Board License Education University of Northern Iowa, BADes Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine, DO See more
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Why You Can Trust CNET
How we test
With over four years' experience covering health and eye care products, CNET editors consider power, price, shipping and return policy to determine our roundup of the best places to buy reading glasses.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Struggling to read the menu, or feeling the need to pull your phone screen up close? It's a common age-related change. Presbyopia starts in your 40s, and a pair of reading glasses can be the easiest fix, says Dr. Steven Reed, president of the American Optometric Association. These glasses are widely available online and don't require a prescription.
Our Picks
Best reading glasses overall GlassesUSA
Jump to details
See at GlassesUSA
Jump to details
Best budget reading glasses Eyebuydirect
Jump to details
See at Eyebuydirect
Jump to details
Best reading glasses with at-home try-on Warby Parker
Jump to details
See at Warby Parker
Jump to details
Best reading glasses style variety Readers.com
Jump to details
See at Readers.com
Jump to details
Best colorful reading glasses Peepers
Jump to details
See at Peepers
Jump to details
Best reading glasses with swappable frames Pair Eyewear
Jump to details
See at Pair Eyewear
Jump to details
Another great budget reading glasses option Zenni
Jump to details
See at Zenni
Jump to details
Best reading glasses for Prime members in a pinch Amazon
Jump to details
See at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 3 more
Table of Contents
Top Reading Glasses to Shop Online in 2025
What are the best reading glasses overall?
Recent updates
Best reading glasses of 2025
Best reading glasses overall
Best budget reading glasses
Best reading glasses with at-home try-on
Best reading glasses style variety
Best colorful reading glasses
Best reading glasses with swappable frames
Another great budget reading glasses option
Best reading glasses for Prime members in a pinch
Best reading glasses comparison chart
Factors to consider when choosing reading glasses
How we tested the best reading glasses
How we chose the best reading glasses
Brands like GlassesUSA, Zenni and Warby Parker offer a wide range of solutions across price points. CNET's experts have compared them across price, selection, design, warranties, customer reviews, shipping, return policies, and even HSA/FSA eligibility to help you pick the right pair. Just keep in mind,
that you should still get a routine eye exam done to make sure your overall eye health and vision are on track. What are the best reading glasses overall?The best reading glasses overall are those from GlassesUSA, which has a wide range of strengths and styles, free standard shipping, a one-year warranty and virtual try-ons. Regarding the best places to buy new glasses, GlassesUSA is CNET’s pick for the best style selection.Recent updatesApril 28, 2025: Changed the “best budget reading glasses” pick from Zenni to Eyebuydirect. Added Amazon as “best reading glasses for Prime members.”Best reading glasses of 2025
GlassesUSA
Photo Gallery 1/1
GlassesUSA
Best reading glasses overall
GlassesUSA
Pros
Has one of the widest ranges of strengths from +0.25 to +4
Offers free standard shipping
Next-day shipping is available for certain items
There is a one-year warranty
Variety of styles
Virtual try-on available
Cons
The return and exchange period is only 14 days
Virtual prescription renewal is not available
Why we like it: GlassesUSA offers 60 pairs of reading glasses in a wide variety of styles, colors and strengths. Regarding the latter, GlassesUSA offers the broadest range of strengths besides Eyebuydirect (more on that below). With prices ranging from $43 to $124, there is something for every budget. The company also offers free standard shipping, next-day shipping, a one-year warranty and virtual try-ons. Who is it best for: GlassesUSA is best for people looking for reading glasses with a strength between +0.25 and +4 and those looking to spend under $130. For select items, next-day shipping is offered at $20. GlassesUSA also accepts insurance and is HSA/FSA eligible.Who should not get it: If you want to spend under $43, check out one of our budget picks instead. This isn't the brand for you if you want a more expensive pair over $130. If you want virtual prescription renewal, see Warby Parker instead (depending on your state).  ... Show more
Get it now
See at GlassesUSA
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+0.25 to +4Shipping
Next-Day Shipping: $20 (only for select items); Express: $13 (3-5 business days); Expedited: $10 (5-7 business days); Standard: Free (7-10 business days)Returns and exchanges
14 daysWarranty
1 yearPrice
$43 to $124Types and coatings
Single vision, blue light, near vision, progressive, bifocal, non-prescription, sunglassesInsurance accepted
YesHSA/FSA accepted
YesVirtual try-on
YesVirtual prescription renewal
No, but a prescription is not required for readers. Offers a Prescription Scanner for up-to-date prescriptions
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best budget reading glasses
Eyebuydirect
Pros
Over 200 styles
Has powers from +0.25 to +4
Offers free 2-day shipping
Provides a 1-year warranty
Affordable prices from $6 to $93
Cons
Returns are 14 days
Why we like it: Compared to our other budget reading glasses pick, Zenni, Eyebuydirect offers more powers (from +0.25 to +4), free two-day shipping, a refund that includes shipping, a one-year warranty for craftsmanship defects and a wider price range of $6 to $93. That is why we chose it as the best budget pick.Who is it best for: Eyebuydirect is best for people looking for budget reading glasses with fast, free, two-day shipping and those who want shipping included in a potential refund. Eyebuydirect also offers a one-year warranty for craftsmanship defects, while Zenni only provides 30 days.Who should not get it: If you’re looking for more glasses styles to choose from while on a budget and don’t care about shipping or return price, then Zenni would be your better bet. Zenni offers over 800 styles of reading glasses, while Eyebuydirect provides over 200 styles.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Eyebuydirect
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+0.25 to +4Shipping
UPS Express: free (2-day delivery); UPS Express: $19+ (7-10 business days); USPS: $5.95 or free over $119 (7-14 business days)Returns and exchanges
14 daysWarranty
Defects in material and workmanship: 1 yearPrice
$6 to $93Types and coatings
Single vision, bifocal, progressive, readers, prism, KODAK, blue light, transitions, photochromic, sunglassesInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
YesVirtual try-on
YesVirtual prescription renewal
No, but not required for readers
Add to compare
Warby Parker
Photo Gallery 1/1
Warby Parker
Best reading glasses with at-home try-on
Warby Parker
Pros
Has over 300 reading glass styles
Has both a virtual and at-home try-on service
Offers virtual prescription renewal for certain states
Has about 300 brick-and-mortar stores
Cons
Cost starts at $95
Doesn’t offer strengths above +2.75
Why we like it: Warby Parker offers 312 frames for reading glasses. Powers range from +0.25 to +2.75, prices range from $95 to $195 and there is both a virtual and home try-on service. You can even use the brand’s virtual prescription renewal if you live in certain states. However, prescriptions are not usually required for readers. The brand also has almost 300 brick-and-mortar stores in the US where you can try on glasses and get customer support.“I enjoyed the ease of finding the right glasses for me while not having to be in a store,” says Dillon Payne, CNET’s video director. “The site was able to scan my face and I was offered a variety of glasses that I preferred. Warby shipped the glasses out and I picked a couple that I liked after wearing and testing them. The others that didn't suit me were shipped back.”Who is it best for: Warby Parker is best for people who want to try on their reading glasses at home and those who need a +0.25 to +2.75 strength. The company has a six-month, no-scratch guarantee and offers virtual prescription renewal, but only for certain states. You can also visit a store in person to try on the glasses or for customer support. Who should not get it: Warby Parker is not your service if you want to spend under $95 or have a strength over +2.75. The brand also doesn’t offer shipping faster than two to six business days, which is $25 for expedited shipping.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Warby Parker
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+0.25 to +2.75Shipping
Expedited: $25 (4-6 business days); Standard: Free (10 business days)Returns and exchanges
30 daysWarranty
Six-month, no-scratch guaranteePrice
$95 to $195Types and coatings
Single vision, progressives, precision progressives, readers, non-prescription, blue light, sunglassesInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
YesVirtual try-on
Yes, and free, at-home try-onVirtual prescription renewal
Yes, but only in certain states. Not required for readers.
Add to compare
Readers.com
Photo Gallery 1/1
Readers.com
Best reading glasses style variety
Readers.com
Pros
Over 450 different reading glasses styles
Offers multipacks
It is affordable, with prices from $7 to $65
Has shipping options from 1-5 business days
Cons
The warranty is only 90 days
Powers below +1 and above +3.75 are not available
No virtual try-on or prescription renewal is available
Why we like it: Readers.com offers 269 styles for women and 199 different products for men. Both can also choose multipacks. This is a wide range, which makes sense considering that Readers.com is dedicated only to reading glasses. It also offers strengths from +1 to +3.75, a price range of $7 to $65, various shipping options (including express and priority) and 90 days for returns, exchanges and its warranty. Who is it best for: Readers.com is best for people who want a wide range of styles under $65 for their reading glasses. It is also suitable for shoppers who want a longer return and exchange window of 90 days. If you prefer to buy your reading glasses in multipacks, you can also get those here. Who should not get it: Readers.com is not for anyone who needs a power lower than +1 or higher than +3.75. It doesn't offer virtual try-ons or online prescription renewal.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Readers.com
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+1 to +3.75Shipping
Priority Mail Express: $13+ (1-2 business days); USPS Priority Mail: $10 (2-3 business days); USPS Ground Advantage: $7 (3-5 business days) or free over $40; UPS Mail: Based on location; Free USPS first-class US shipping over $45 (1-5 business days)Returns and exchanges
90 daysWarranty
90 daysPrice
$7 to $65Types and coatings
Bifocal, fully magnified, multifocal, unmagnified, blue light, sunglassesInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
YesVirtual try-on
NoVirtual prescription renewal
No, but a prescription is not required for readers
Add to compare
Peepers
Photo Gallery 1/1
Peepers
Best colorful reading glasses
Peepers
Pros
Great for people looking for fun colors and bold shapes
Has powers from +1 to +4
Offers same-day shipping if ordered before 1 p.m. CST
The return and exchange policy is 90 days
Cons
No strengths under +1
No warranty
Why we like it: One of Oprah’s Favorite Things, this brand is known for its bold shapes and fun colors. They even offer reading glasses with wavy temples. Despite these unique styles, Peepers is also affordable at $23 to $30. Who is it best for: Peepers is best for people looking for affordable but fun reading glasses that fit their personal style and budget. It offers powers from +1 to +4, virtual try-ons, 90-day returns and exchanges and even same-day shipping if you order before 1 p.m. CST. Who should not get it: If you’re looking for reading glasses with a warranty, Peepers is not the brand for you. The same goes for those looking for a strength under +1. If you don’t care about the color of your glasses or want a bold shape, another brand might be better.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Peepers
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+1 to +4Shipping
FedEx One Rate: $10 (ships same day if ordered before 1 p.m. CST); UPS Next Day Air: Based on location (ships same day if ordered before 1 p.m. CST); UPS Ground: Based on location (1-5 business days); Standard: $5.00 or free over $55 (3-6 business days)Returns and exchanges
90 daysWarranty
NonePrice
$23 to $30Types and coatings
Blue light, progressives, no correction, sunglassesInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
Yes, but only for Visa, Mastercard, Discover, or American ExpressVirtual try-on
YesVirtual prescription renewal
No, but a prescription is not required for readers
Add to compare
Pair Eyewear
Photo Gallery 1/1
Pair Eyewear
Best reading glasses with swappable frames
Pair Eyewear
Pros
Top frames that can be changed daily
Has virtual try-ons
Cons
Only has strengths from +0.25 to +2.75
No reading glasses under $60
Offers next-day shipping, but it’s $60
Why we like it: Pair Eyewear offers base frames with separate top frames that can be switched up to match your everyday style and mood. Prices start at $60, and strengths depend on style, but we generally see +0.25 to +2.75. You can also use its virtual try-on feature. Who is it best for: Pair Eyewear is best for people looking to spend at least $60 and want to regularly change the appearance of their reading glasses. They also offer next-day shipping (though it’s $60) and 30 days for returns, exchanges and its warranty. Who should not get it: Anyone looking for a reading glass strength above +2.75 should look elsewhere. Pair Eyewear is also not for you if you want a warranty longer than 30 days.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Pair Eyewear
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+0.25 to +2.75, but depends on styleShipping
Rush Shipping (Next Day): $60; 3-Day Guarantee: $30; Priority Shipping: $15 (3-5 business days); Free standard shipping on all US orders (5-7 business days)Returns and exchanges
30 daysWarranty
30 daysPrice
$60+Types and coatings
Single vision, progressive, readers, non-prescription, blue light, sunglassesInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
YesVirtual try-on
YesVirtual prescription renewal
No, but a prescription is not required for readers
Add to compare
Zenni/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Zenni/CNET
Another great budget reading glasses option
Zenni
Pros
Affordable prices under $60
Over 800 different styles
Free standard shipping for $65+ orders
Offers virtual try-on
Cons
Powers above +2.75 are not available
The refund window is 2 weeks minus shipping
The warranty is only 30 days
Why we like it: Zenni has 880 pairs of reading glasses at budget prices from $7 to $60 and powers from +0.25 to +2.75. It also offers virtual try-ons and shipping options that range from one to 14 business days. Who is it best for: Zenni is best for people on a budget who might want to purchase multiple pairs of glasses at an affordable price.Who should not get it: If your reading glasses strength is above +2.75, Zenni is not for you. Zenni also offers only two weeks for returns and exchanges, and refunds are minus shipping. You have 30 days if you opt for store credit. The warranty is only 30 days.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Zenni
Specs & Configurations
Powers
+0.25 to +2.75Shipping
Rush 1-4 Days: $29+ (Estimated delivery in 1-4 business days); Rush 2-5 Days: $19+ (2-5 business days); Express: $15 (5-10 business days); Standard: $5 or free for $65+ orders (7-14 business days)Returns and exchanges
2 weeks for refund (minus shipping), 30 days for store creditWarranty
30 daysPrice
$7 to $60Types and coatings
Bifocals, progressives, high prescription, readers, non-prescription, blue light, sunglassesInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
YesVirtual try-on
YesVirtual prescription renewal
No, but a prescription is not required for readers
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best reading glasses for Prime members in a pinch
Amazon
Pros
Fast, free shipping for Prime members
Thousands of options in terms of reading glass styles
The affordable price range of $3 to $259
Free returns within 30 days, generally
Cons
Quality is unpredictable and depends on the brand
No warranty in most cases
No virtual try-on
Why we like it: While Amazon is not one of our top picks for reading glasses, if you're a Prime member and need affordable reading glasses ASAP, the brand offers fast, free shipping. Katie Collins, CNET’s director of content, used Prime for reading glasses before and enjoyed the service's many options (the search “reading glasses” brings up 40,000 results), price range and speedy delivery.Who is it best for: Amazon’s reading glasses are best for Prime members in a pinch who need affordable reading glasses within a day or two. If you don’t like the glasses, you must be ready to return them within 30 days (or whatever the particular brand says) because there is no warranty. Popular brands on Amazon include Eyebobs, Firmoo, Look Optic, SCOJO New York and ThinOptics.Who should not get it: What Collins did not like about Amazon is its unpredictable quality and the fact that you can't try them on (not even virtually). Everything comes down to what brand you order from: the power, lens types, coatings, shipping and HSA/FSA acceptance. Returns/exchanges also depend on the brand, but most offer free returns within 30 days. We did not see any that offer a warranty through Amazon.   ... Show more
Get it now
See at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Powers
Depends on brandShipping
Depends, but some do free same-day or one-day for Prime membersReturns and exchanges
Depends on the brand, but generally free within 30 daysWarranty
Depends on the brand, but seeing most don't have a warrantyPrice
For Prime, $3 to $259Types and coatings
Depends on brandInsurance accepted
Check with your providerHSA/FSA accepted
Depends on brandVirtual try-on
NoVirtual prescription renewal
No, but not required for readers
Add to compareBest reading glasses comparison chart
BrandSuperlativePowersShippingReturns/exchangesWarrantyPrice HSA/FSA acceptedVirtual try-onVirtual prescription renewal GlassesUSA Best reading glasses overall+0.25 to +4Next-Day: $20
Express: $13
Expedited: $10
Standard: Free14 days1 year$43 to over $124YesYesNoEyebuydirect Best budget reading glasses+0.25 to +4UPS Express: free
UPS Express: $19+
USPS: $5.9514 daysCraftsmanship defects: 1 year$6 to $93YesYesNoWarby Parker Best reading glasses with at-home try-on+0.25 to +2.75Expedited: $25
Standard: Free30 daysSix-month, no-scratch guarantee$95 to $195YesYesYes, but only in certain statesReaders.com Best reading glasses style variety+1.0 to +3.75Priority Express: $13 Priority: $10
Ground Advantage: $7
Mail: Varies90 days90 days$7 to over $44YesNoNoPeepers Best colorful reading glasses+1 to +4FedEx: $10
Next-Day Air: Varies
Ground: Varies
Standard: $5.0090 daysNone$23 to $30Yes, but only for Visa, Mastercard, Discover, or American ExpressYesNoPair Eyewear Best reading glasses with swappable frames+0.25 to +2.75Next-Day: $60
3-Day: $30
Priority: $15
Standard: free30 days30 days$60+YesYesNoZenni Another great budget reading glasses option+0.25 to +2.75Rush 1-4 Days: $29+
Rush 2-5 Days: $19+
Express: $15
Standard: $52 weeks for refund (minus shipping), 30 days for store creditManufacturing error: 30 days Anti-reflective (AR) coating and photochromic films: 1 year$7 to $60YesYesNoAmazon Best for Prime members in a pinchDepends on brandVariesCan depend on brand, but generally free within 30 daysDepends on brand, but seeing most don't have thisFor Prime, $3 to $259Depends on brandNoNo
Factors to consider when choosing reading glasses
StrengthReading glasses typically range from +0.25 to +2.50 diopters (the unit of measurement for eye prescriptions), though the average starting strength is usually around +0.75. In rare cases, reading glass strength can go up to +4.00. “Tips for buying reading glasses online are similar to buying ready-made reading glasses at the drugstore: it’s a convenient option, but it’s not a good idea for everyone,” says Dr. Ravi Goel, clinical spokesperson for the American Academy of Ophthalmology. “If you have different prescription needs in each eye, astigmatism, high-power or more complex prescription needs, you should see an eye care professional for updated prescription eyewear.”Reed seconds this, adding, “The wrong prescription can lead to headaches, eye strain or even nausea. If you do choose to buy online, we recommend selecting a lower power when deciding between two strengths, as this is generally a safer choice, and overly strong lenses tend to cause more discomfort than those that are slightly weaker.”Goel notes that everyone over age 40 should see an ophthalmologist for a medical eye exam since that is the age when both presbyopia and potentially blinding eye diseases usually begin developing. Plus, not all eye diseases begin with noticeable symptoms.Type of reading glasses“There are four main types of reading glasses: single vision, bifocal, trifocal and progressive,” says Goel, defining them as:Single-vision reading lenses are typically designed to correct just for near vision. Bifocal lenses have a correction for reading on the bottom half of the lens and another for distance on the top.Trifocal lenses have three sections: distance, intermediate and near vision. Reed says these can be particularly helpful for people over 50 experiencing reduced depth of focus.Progressive lenses have a smooth transition between distance and near focal areas without visible dividing lines. “They deliver a more natural look and a smoother transition between different viewing distances,” adds Reed.“When generic OTC readers are no longer enough, prescription reading glasses -- also called single-vision readers -- are a great next step. These are custom-made by an eye doctor to correct for astigmatism, unequal prescriptions or other specific vision needs,” says Reed. “For those who need multiple levels of vision correction, there are multifocal lenses.” The best lens material“This depends on lifestyle,” Goel says. “For example, if you spend a lot of time outdoors, you might prefer polycarbonate, which is lightweight and doesn’t break easily. There are also various lens coatings available for convenience (i.e., anti-reflective coatings) but are not required.”Goel notes that the American Academy of Ophthalmology doesn't recommend blue light-blocking coatings or lenses because “there is no scientific evidence to suggest blue light-blocking glasses help reduce eye strain.” Instead, take breaks from near-work activity and use eye drops if necessary. If you continue to experience symptoms, see an ophthalmologist.According to Reed, most people choose between the following three lens materials for reading glasses:CR-39 plastic lenses: Affordable, lightweight and provide good optical clarity, making them a popular choice for basic reading glasses.Polycarbonate lenses: Lighter and significantly more impact-resistant than CR-39 plastic, making them a safer option for people who tend to drop their glasses or want something more durable. High-index plastic lenses: Thinner and lighter than other materials and are a good choice for people who need a stronger prescription but want to avoid thick, heavy lenses.“For most reading glasses, especially for occasional or indoor use, CR-39 plastic works well,” says Reed. “If you need extra durability or prefer thinner, lighter lenses, polycarbonate or high-index materials may be a better fit. Your doctor of optometry can help recommend the best lens material based on your specific needs.”Reed adds that not all lens materials and coatings are created equal. That’s why it’s important to check with your eye doctor to ensure the reading glasses you choose are the right fit for you. StyleOne of the most fun parts of buying glasses is finding a frame that speaks to your personal style and fits with your face shape. When shopping for glasses online, pay attention to the material, color and width. PriceReading glasses can range from affordable to expensive. For instance, if you want a designer pair of reading glasses, be prepared to spend over $100. If you tend to lose your reading glasses, you may want to buy more inexpensive pairs to keep multiple on hand.“Price of eyeglasses is not necessarily reflective of quality; the real question is if someone finds the ready-made reading glasses helpful or if they need custom reading glasses to meet their vision needs,” explains Goel.  “In general, spending more on frames doesn’t mean you’ll end up with better-quality eyeglasses. You don’t need designer frames to have a good set of glasses. For prescription lenses, such as bifocal, trifocal or progressive lenses, an optician will help you select good lenses that best meet your vision needs. A personalized evaluation of vision needs is a value-add that is often missed by online sellers.”Additional coatingsYou can get reading glasses with lenses treated with blue light, anti-glare and polarization coatings. But note that you'll likely have to pay extra for these. Shipping and returnsIf you buy your reading glasses online, you likely won’t get to try them on before you buy. As a result, ensure the company has a return and exchange policy you can work with. As for shipping, if you need your reading glasses ASAP, you’re better off going with a company that offers express or overnight shipping.  How we tested the best reading glasses
While these reading glasses were not hands-on tested, we did read customer reviews and pool insights from CNET writers and editors. We also considered different strengths, style selection, shipping, returns and exchanges, warranties, price, virtual and at-home try-ons, HSA/FSA acceptance and whether there's virtual prescription renewal available for each brand. How we chose the best reading glasses
Customer reviews: We pooled thoughts from fellow CNET writers and editors and reviewed customer reviews and ratings.Strengths: For each company, we checked to see which strengths are offered for reading glasses.Style selection: We examined each brand's number of reading glasses styles, as well as the colors, shapes, materials and other unique features. We also examined the different lens types and coatings offered.Shipping: In addition to shipping time, we also considered shipping prices and which brands offer free, fast shipping. Returns, exchanges and warranties: We checked the return and exchange time frame (and whether shipping is included) and the length of the brand’s warranty and what it encompasses.Price: We looked at each company’s price range to see if people with different budgets could shop for reading glasses there. Virtual try-on and prescription renewal: Does the brand offer virtual or even at-home try-ons? We considered this question and checked whether each company offers online prescription renewal.
Reading glasses FAQs
How do you know when you need reading glasses?
“Adults in their early to mid-forties often start noticing difficulty seeing things up close, like when reading or using digital devices,” says Reed. “This normal, age-related change in the eye’s focusing ability is called presbyopia and tends to progress over time. To manage it, many people turn to reading glasses or other forms of near vision correction.”Goel adds, “Most people begin to notice changes to their vision around the age of 40. That’s the age when the clear natural lens of your eye becomes less flexible, which leads to difficulty focusing well on near objects.”According to Reed, some signs of presbyopia include:Squinting more frequentlyTrouble seeing smaller print in dim lightNeeding to hold reading materials at arm's lengthBlurred vision at a normal reading distance Eye fatigue or headaches when doing close work
Show more
How do I know what strength of reading glasses to get?
“A doctor of optometry can help determine the best reading glasses for patients’ specific visual needs,” says Reed. “If they mainly wear them while using a computer, they will likely need a lower power, since screens are typically viewed from a greater distance than a book or magazine. The farther away the object, the less magnification you need for clear, comfortable vision.”For those who need reading glasses for viewing details up close, Reed states that the patient will want a stronger power. “ In most cases, when deciding between two similar strengths, it’s best to choose the lower one -- glasses that are too strong are more likely to cause discomfort than those that are slightly too weak.”While seeing an eye care professional for an accurate prescription and to check for signs of eye disease (especially starting at age 40) is the right idea, Goel adds, “People can try on a few different types of reading glasses at the drugstore and see if they find something that feels right.”
Show more
Are cheap reading glasses OK? Is there a difference in quality?
“The optical quality of OTC reading glasses can vary quite a bit,” Reed explains. “As I mentioned, one of the main drawbacks is that these ready-made readers are essentially one-size-fits-all. They’re designed for short-term use and work best for people without astigmatism and with the same prescription in both eyes.”Reed adds that OTC reading glasses typically range from $1 to $50 or more. Prescription reading glasses, on the other hand, can vary in price based on the lens type, provider and insurance coverage. He says, “I always recommend that patients talk with their eye doctor about the best options for their needs -- and ask about programs or benefits that might help with the cost of care.”
Show more
What can I use reading glasses for?
“Reading glasses provide a simple and effective way to improve near vision to make everyday tasks easier and more comfortable,” says Reed. “They can improve clarity when reading books, menus or phone screens and assist with daily activities like using a computer or crafting. Furthermore, they can minimize eye fatigue and headaches caused by prolonged screen time to improve overall productivity and comfort.”
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II
Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness.
Read full bio
Also written by
Troy Mensen, DO Medical Reviewer
Personal Care Guides
Eye Care
Best Places to Buy Glasses Online
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses
Best Eye Drops
Best Places to Buy Contacts Online
Best Prescription Sunglasses
Best Blue Light Blocking Glasses
Dental Care
Best Electric Toothbrush
Quip Toothbrush Review
Best Invisible Braces
Best Teeth Whitening Strips and Toothpaste
Best Teeth Whitening Kits
Mental Health
Best Mental Health Apps
Best Teas for Stress and Anxiety
Best Fidget Toys for Anxiety
Best Online Therapy
Best Online Couples Therapy
Best Online Psychiatric Services
Betterhelp Online Therapy Review
Cerebral Review
Talkspace Online Therapy Review
Talkspace vs. Betterhelp
Other Personal Care
Best Sunscreen
Best Shower Filter
Best Hand Soap
Best Period Underwear
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.