Best 6 TVs I've Tested for September 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TVs
Best 6 TVs I've Tested for September 2025
Here are the best TVs I’ve reviewed from top brands like LG, Samsung and TCL, and over a range of budgets.
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Article updated on September 2, 2025 at 9:00 AM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
TVs range in price from $100 to more than $2,000. Smaller screens are cheaper, well-known brands are more expensive and spending more money can also get you better image quality.
Screen size
Bigger is better in our book. We recommend a size of at least 43 inches for a bedroom TV and at least 55 inches for a living room or main TV -- and 65 inches or larger is best.
Capability
Finding a worthwhile smart TV system is most important for entry-level TVs. High-end TVs are more about picture quality.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Buying the best TV for your needs is a balancing act of finding the best picture quality, the best price and the size that's right for your room. Here at CNET, I test TVs head-to-head in our dedicated lab, and I want to help you choose the television with the best bang for your buck. Whether you need it for gaming, sports or streaming shows and movies, there’s a model here for you.
Our Picks
Best TV for picture quality in 2025 Samsung S95F
Jump to details
$2,998 at Amazon
Jump to details
Brightest OLED TV of 2025 LG OLED G5
Jump to details
$2,900 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best TV value for 2025 LG OLED C4
Jump to details
$1,397 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best LCD TV of 2025 TCL QM8K
Jump to details
$1,298 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best TV under $1,000 in 2025 TCL QM6K
Jump to details
$648 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget TV Samsung DU7200
Jump to details
$399 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
TV DEALS OF THE WEEK
75-inch TCL QM6K 4K QD-Mini LED Google TV (2025 Model):  $850 (save $150)
65-inch LG C4 Series 4K 120Hz OLED Evo Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,397 (save $1,303)
75-inch Hisense U7 Series 4K Mini-LED ULED Google Smart TV (2025 Model):  $1,298 (save $702)
77-inch LG C5 Series OLED Evo AI 4K Smart TV (2025 Model):  $2,997 (save $700)
65-inch Samsung S90D Series 4K OLED 144Hz Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,398 (save $300) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best 6 TVs I've Tested for September 2025
These are the best TVs for 2025
Best TV for picture quality in 2025
Brightest OLED TV of 2025
Best TV value for 2025
Best LCD TV of 2025
Best TV under $1,000 in 2025
Best budget TV
Recent updates
Other TVs I've tested
How CNET tests TVs
Factors to consider when choosing a TV
TV brightness according to CNET's testing
FAQ on Best TVs of 2025
There are a bunch of 2025 televisions now available in stores, and I've reviewed a good deal of them, but even so, some of the recommendations below debuted last year. This is because TVs are a stable technology, and year-to-year improvements are usually minor, which means in some cases you can buy a similar TV to a 2025 model, but for half the price. That said, here are the best TVs you can buy now, from high-end QLED and OLED TVs to midrange mini-LED and cheap 4K smart TVs.These are the best TVs for 2025
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Samsung S95F OLED TV Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best TV for picture quality in 2025
Samsung S95F
8.9
/10
SCORE
Pros
Best overall image quality I've tested
Best-in-class glare reduction in a bright room
Superior contrast and off-angle viewing
Ultrathin panel with external input box
Cons
Expensive
Slightly diminished contrast in bright rooms
If you want the best TV you can buy in 2025, this is it. Samsung's S95F takes everything we loved about last year's S95D -- great picture quality, super-fast gaming, superior anti-glare -- and somehow manages to improve upon it. What's especially impressive is how good this TV is at banishing reflections, which makes it well-suited to watching in a bright room. If you find yourself squinting at the screen because you can see a window or overhead lights in your picture, this TV is for you. While there is some loss of contrast with the lights on, it's not as pronounced as with the S95D, and its overall lack of reflectivity is well worth the trade-off.Picture quality is just as great as you'd expect from an OLED, with vivid colors and fantastic contrast. The TV has also had a brightness boost in 2025 of around 30 percent and can go toe-to-toe with the even-brighter (on paper, at least) LG G5.The only downside? It costs a lot of money. Yet, as Samsung's flagship OLED, the S95F makes your investment worthwhile -- and rewards movie fans and gamers alike with excellent performance in an attractive package.
... Show more
Get it now
$2,998 at Amazon
$3,100 at Samsung
$2,998 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Available screen sizes
83-,77-, 65- and 55-inchScreen type
OLEDRefresh rate
120 HzHDMI ports
Four HDMI 2.1 inputsWeight
41.7 lbs. for the 65-inch (without stand)
Learn more
Samsung S95F review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Brightest OLED TV of 2025
LG OLED G5
8.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
The G5 has the highest brightness of any OLED TV yet
It's capable of stunning image quality
Cons
Brightness boost is not visible in all content
Remote is not as good as previous versions
Expensive compared to LG C4
While every other OLED TV until now has shown modest increases year-over-year, the LG G5 is a massive improvement on its predecessor. LG says it has a 40% improvement in brightness -- and I verified this through my own testing -- and it's a TV that can take on LCD TVs for its clarity and punch. The G5 has better color than the company's own C5, and it's a lot better for gaming, too. For the right person, the extra $600 or so for the G5 over the C5 is well worth it.With its high brightness the G5 is also great for use in a lit room, though it's second to the excellent Samsung S95F, in my testing, in terms of reducing glare in a bright room.With excellent brightness, punchy contrast and bold color, the LG G5 is one of the best TVs if you want the best picture possible from a 2025 TV.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,900 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Available screen sizes
55-, 65-, 77-, 83- and 97-inchScreen type
OLEDRefresh rate
120HzHDMI ports
4Weight
48.5 lb without stand (65 inch)
Learn more
LG OLED G5 review
Add to compare
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Josh Goldman/CNET
Best TV value for 2025
LG OLED C4
8.7
/10
SCORE
Pros
Better picture quality than any non-OLED TV we've tested
Superior contrast and off-angle image
Best-in-class gaming features
Sleek styling with ultralight, thin panel
Cons
Expensive
Not as bright as higher-end OLED TVs
No major improvements over the C3
The C4 may be a 2024 TV, but it is the best TV you can buy right now for number of reasons: namely, it has better picture quality than any LCD TV on this list, including the TCL QM8, and it's currently selling for the same price as a mid-range LCD TV. As I found in my measurements, the C4 has perfect black levels, unbeatable contrast and well-saturated colors. In my comparison tests, its overall brightness isn't quite as impressive as 2025 OLEDs like the C5 and G5, but it's still an incredible performer in all types of room lighting. The C4 is well-suited to almost any kind of content. For example, its fast pixel response times and high saturation make it great for watching sports, as well as making it a superb gaming TV. The C4 demonstrates why it's often better to buy last year's version of a TV. It's very similar to the new C5 and about a grand cheaper in the 65-inch size. As an OLED, the C4 is still more expensive than the cheaper TVs here, so the only reason you wouldn't buy this TV is if you wanted a better "bang for buck." The TCL QM8 or even the Roku Pro Series is a better value.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,397 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Available screen sizes
42-, 48-, 55-, 65-, 77- and 83-inchScreen type
OLEDRefresh rate
144 HzHDMI ports
Four HDMI inputsWeight
36.6 lbs. for 65-inch (without stand)
Learn more
LG OLED C4 review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
The TCL stand packs flat and is easy to put together Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best LCD TV of 2025
TCL QM8K
8.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
Great picture quality
Very few haloing artifacts
New Filmmaker mode helps create more accurate pictures
Cons
Still bright, but dimmer than the TV it replaced
Worse input lag with games
TCL has topped CNET's list of the best TVs for the past few years, and the QM8K improves in a few key ways. In my side-by-side comparison tests with both the LG C5 and the Hisense U8K, the TCL stood out with excellent color and OLED-like black levels. The key to the TC's picture-quality performance is mini-LED tech and its new Halo Control System, which is designed to reduce light bleed in dark scenes. It works, though it does mean the screen is a little less bright than the previous QM851.The TV also has a sleek design with a center-mount stand and a spiffy remote control. The operating system is Google TV, which I don't like as much as Roku TV, but it's still a solid smart TV system.Apart from a slightly slower gaming response time -- measured at about 1ms slower than most and 4ms slower than the best -- the main downside of the TCL QM8K is that it's only available in large sizes (65 inches and up). If you're looking for a TV for a smaller space, I recommend the similarly-performing Hisense U8QG instead.
... Show more
Get it now
$1,298 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Available screen sizes
98-, 85-, 75- and 65-inchScreen type
Mini-LEDRefresh rate
144 HzHDMI ports
Four HDMI inputs (one with eARC)Weight
50.1 lbs. (without stand)Resolution
4K
Learn more
TCL QM8K review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best TV under $1,000 in 2025
TCL QM6K
8.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
The TCL QM6K has excellent picture quality
The black levels are surprisingly deep
This TV offers outstanding bang for buck
Cons
The TV's brightness and color saturation could be better
When it comes to the best TVs for the money, it's the TVs priced under a grand typically include the features you want without paying too much. The TCL QM6K started at a grand and is now even cheaper (around $650) and it has those tick boxes already checked -- excellent picture quality, streaming, and gaming. It's an attractive TV with its "bezel-less" design and is simple to put to together and set up.The TV boasts compatibility with all the HDR formats -- including both Dolby Vision and HDR10+ -- and includes the company's Halo Control System processing, which is designed to eliminate backlight haloing in its 500 dimming zones.In my side-by-side tests of the TV I found that it had plenty of contrast compared to its competition, though I had hoped for a lot more oomph in the brightness department -- its 655 nit reading is super low for a modern TV. Yet, if you're watching in the dark, or without direct reflections, its lack of dazzling whites won't be an issue.  ... Show more
Get it now
$648 at Amazon
$650 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Available screen sizes
98-, 85-, 75-, 65- and 55-inchScreen type
QLED with local dimmingHDMI ports
Four HDMI inputs, one with HDMI eARCWeight
37.8 lbs. for 65-inch (without stand)
Learn more
TCL QM6K review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best budget TV
Samsung DU7200
7.9
/10
SCORE
Pros
Cheap
Excellent black levels and shadow detail
Plenty of streaming options
Cons
Desaturated reds
Interface is less user-friendly than a Roku TV
In terms of the best bang for buck, one of the most impressive models has been the Samsung DU7200 -- it's a TV that delivers a really good picture for an affordable price. The black levels and shadow detail are excellent for the money, and while my test unit looked a little desaturated out of the box, that was easily fixed by adjusting the Color control. The TV has onboard streaming, and the sound quality isn't too bad either. If you're looking for a bedroom unit or a smaller gaming TV then the Samsung DU7200 is the model I would choose. Don't buy it if you're a stickler for image quality, but for the price, it's pretty great.  ... Show more
Get it now
$399 at Amazon
$330 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Available screen sizes
85-, 75-, 75-, 65-, 60-, 55-, 50-, and 43-inchScreen type
LEDRefresh rate
60HzHDMI ports
Three HDMI inputs, one with eARCWeight
10.9 lbs
Add to compareRecent updates
Aug 21, 2025: Added TCL QM8K as the best LCD TVAug 7, 2025: Added TCL QM6K to best TV under $1,000July 18, 2025: Samsung S95F OLED is now my Editors' Choice for best high-end TV, and added the Samsung S90F and LG C5 to Also tested.July 3, 2025: Updated list with a review of 2025's Samsung S95F, plus the latest pricing. Other TVs I've tested
The Konica Minolta CS-2000 spectroradiometer testing an LG OLED in CNET's lab. David Katzmaier/CNETRoku Pro Series: If you're looking for a gaming TV and don't want to spend the money on an OLED model, the Roku Pro is a solid choice. Read CNET's review of the Roku Pro (2024)Samsung S90F: The Samsung S90F is a fantastic TV with great contrast levels and highly saturated colors, and it's great for gaming, too. Yet it's still more expensive than last year's LG C4 and S90D, and not that much different. Get those instead while they're still available. Read my review of the S90F OLED TVLG C5: Like the S90F, this is an excellent OLED TV for watching TV or playing games. However, at the moment, it's stuck between the much-cheaper LG C4 and the much better, though more expensive, LG G5. Read my review of the LG C5 TV.
The Panasonic Z95A is a 2024 OLED TV which boasts a dedicated audio system. Richard Peterson/CNETPanasonic Z95A: The Panasonic Z95A is a superb TV and it has one advantage over most at the price because of its dedicated speaker system, giving it decent sound quality. The inclusion of Amazon Fire TV is also unusual for the price but I still prefer Google TV. Read CNET's hands-on of the Panasonic Z95A.Samsung S90D: The S90D performed well in our measurement tests but it suffered some contrast loss compared to the C4. Any differences between the C4 and S90D were subtle. Read CNET's full review of the Samsung S90D.Samsung S95D: With a versatile matte screen and awesome picture, the Samsung S95D delivers astounding image quality, and is quite a bit cheaper than the,nbest muscle relaxers albeit better, S95F. Read CNET's full review of the Samsung S95D. How CNET tests TVs
CNET editors David Katzmaier and Ty Pendlebury have been testing TVs since the turn of the century. Sarah Tew/CNETIn every CNET TV review, I compare three or more similar TVs side by side in a dedicated, light-controlled test lab. With each review, I employ a rigorous, unbiased evaluation process that has been honed in more than two decades of TV reviews. I test TVs with a combination of scientific measurements and real-world evaluations of TV, movies and gaming content. To ensure I can evaluate the picture quality of every TV I employ the use of an AVPro Connect 8x8 4K HDR splitter so each one receives the same signal. I test the TVs using various lighting conditions playing different media, including 4K HDR movies and console games, across a variety of test categories, from color to video processing to gaming to HDR.
In order to measure each TV, I use specialized equipment to grade according to light output and color.
My hardware includes a Konica Minolta CS-2000 spectroradiometer and a Murideo Six-G 4K HDR signal generator. I use Portrait Displays CalMan Ultimate software to evaluate every TV I review according to their brightness, black levels and color.My reviews also account for such things as features, design, smart TV performance, connectivity including HDMI inputs and gaming compatibility.
Check out How CNET Tests TVs for more details. Factors to consider when choosing a TV
The Sony Bravia 8 II is a new flagship OLED David Katzmaier/CNETWith all of the TVs available today, and all of the technical terms and jargon associated with television technology, it can be tough to figure out what's important. Here's a quick guide to help cut through the confusion.Picture quality: Broadly speaking, the type of display technology helps dictate how good a TV's picture quality is, but OLED is typically the best display technology, and this is followed by LCD (including QLED, and Mini LED). OLED tends to have the best picture quality because it doesn't need a backlight and every pixel can be either on or off, leading to great black levels. In comparison, each LED in a backlight looks after multiple pixels at a time so it isn't as precise -- it's not yet 1:1. Among midrange models, look for a feature including full-array local dimming, mini-LED and 120Hz refresh rate, which (unlike some other extras) do help improve the picture in my experience. Additionally, If a TV uses Quantum Dots it often leads to better color performance, whether it's an OLED or an LCD.Screen size: Bigger is better in my book. I recommend a size of at least 43 inches for a bedroom TV and at least 55 inches for a living room or main TV -- and 65 inches or larger is best. More so than any "feature," stepping up in TV screen size is the best use of your money. One of the most common post-TV-purchase complaints I've heard is from people who didn't go big enough. And I rarely hear people complain that their TV is too large. It's worth adding that while TVs can get really big indeed, 4K resolution is sufficient for even the biggest models, and CNET doesn't recommend any 8K TVs as they represent a poor comparative value.Price: TVs range in price from $100 to more than $2,000. Smaller screens are cheaper, well-known brands are more expensive and spending more money can also get you better image quality. Most entry-level TVs have a good enough picture for most people, but TVs last a long time, so it might be worth spending more to get a better picture. It's also best to shop for a TV in the fall when prices are lower.Sound quality: Every TV has some sort of built-in speaker, but in my twenty years of reviewing AV equipment the sound of modern TVs has been routinely terrible. While I do test the audio on each model, if you are serious about sound quality then buying a separate soundbar (from $100) or home theater system will instantly improve vital aspects such as speech and bass reproduction.Smart TV: Among entry-level TVs the most important feature is what kind of smart TV system the TV uses, and while some are proprietary to each brand (Samsung and LG) some models do offer Roku and Google TV.For more TV buying advice check out How to Buy a TV.
TV brightness according to CNET's testing
One important aspect of image quality I test is overall brightness using the CS-2000 spectroradiometer. Here's how brightness compares in nits across select TVs listed above.Light output in nits
TV Brightest mode (HDR)Accurate mode (HDR)Brightest mode (SDR)Accurate mode (SDR)TCL QM8K 3,0113,0113,038196Hisense U8N 3,1753,1753,1681,112LG OLED G5 2,8132.2971,030412Samsung S95F 2,1502,150391297LG OLED C4 1,213968414390TCL QM6K 655584644644
FAQ on Best TVs of 2025
How much should I spend on a TV?
Prices vary widely by size and features, from less than $100 for basic 24-inch TVs to more than $2,000 for big OLED models. TVs last a long time, so we think it's worthwhile to spend a little extra beyond the bare minimum to get a bigger screen, better picture quality or better features. With that in mind, here are some ballpark prices that will get you a very good TV in 2025.55-inch: $70065-inch: $1,00075-inch: $1,300You could pay (much) more or less. The fact is that just about any TV will produce a picture decent enough to satisfy most viewers. Most complaints you read in user reviews aren't about picture quality. Instead, they're about ease of use, smart TV menus or sound (or a broken TV).
Show more
What size TV should I buy?
In our opinion bigger is better, and your money is best spent on large screen sizes rather than a slight upgrade in image quality. The answer also depends on room size and seating distance: If you have a big room and sit farther away, you'll want a bigger TV.
Show more
Which is better, OLED or LED?
In our reviews, OLED TVs, which use organic light-emitting diode technology, have always had better picture quality than LED TVs, which are essentially LCD TVs that use LED backlights. The main reason is that OLED TVs can produce a perfectly dark shade of black with no stray illumination or blooming, which leads to better contrast and pop. LED TVs can get brighter and usually cost less than OLED TVs.
Show more
What is the best smart TV system for streaming?
At CNET, our favorite is Roku for its simplicity, but different systems like Google TV, Amazon Fire TV, Samsung and LG have different strengths, particularly for voice commands. In any case, we don't consider the built-in smart TV system that important because you can always connect a streaming device to any TV.
Show more
How do I get the best TV sound?
Most TVs sound terrible because their thin cabinets don't have room for decent-size speakers or a bass. If you want to get good sound, you should buy an external audio system. Even an inexpensive soundbar will deliver much better audio quality than a TV's built-in speakers.
Show more
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
CNET TV Coverage
TV Types
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best Gaming TV
Best TV Deals
Best 4k TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best OLED TV Deals
Best Apple TV Deals
TV Sizes
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best 55-Inch TV
Best 43-Inch TV
Best 32-Inch TV
Streaming & TV Accessories
CNET Streaming TV Insider
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
TV Information
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
HDMI vs Optical
TV Resolutions Explained
LCD vs OLED
How to Connect a VCR to Your New TV
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.