Surfshark Review 2025: An Excellent VPN That Continues to Churn Out Innovative Features - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
Surfshark Review 2025: An Excellent VPN That Continues to Churn Out Innovative Features
Surfshark bumped up its renewal prices this year, but it's still a top-tier VPN that’s fast, excellent for streaming and full of useful features.
Article updated on September 5, 2025 at 8:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
8.6/ 10
SCORE Surfshark
$45 at Surfshark VPN
Price
$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)
Latest tests
No leaks detected, 21% speed loss in 2025 tests
Network
3,200-plus servers in 100 countries
Jurisdiction
Netherlands
Score Breakdown Usability
9/10Value
9/10Speed
8/10Privacy
8/10Features
9/10
Pros
Fast
Unlimited simultaneous connections
RAM-only server infrastructure
Lots of unique features
Split tunneling on Windows, Android, MacOS and iOS
Cons
14-Eyes jurisdiction (Netherlands)
Major renewal price increase
Table of Contents
Surfshark Review 2025: An Excellent VPN That Continues to Churn Out Innovative Features
Speed: Consistently fast connections
Cost: Surfshark’s renewal price bump bites, but it comes with improvements to the service
Bundle options available from Surfshark
Privacy and security: Unique privacy features and an increased commitment to transparency
Surfshark’s a bit more expensive than it used to be, but it's starting to make a compelling case for its higher renewal prices
2024
Surfshark isn't quite as budget-friendly as it once was, but even after a 33% renewal price increase earlier this year, this virtual private network still offers good value considering the range of features it includes and the multitude of improvements it rolled out over of 2025. Even though Surfshark’s price hike has made the service less of a bargain compared to PIA or Mullvad, it’s still cheaper than VPNs like ExpressVPN and NordVPN that offer similar features and performance at substantially higher renewal prices.I ran Surfshark through a gauntlet of tests across various platforms over several weeks in February 2025, along with some additional tests in August. My initial testing involved more than 200 individual speed tests, DNS leak tests, a rigorous evaluation of its streaming capabilities and an assessment of its overall value. My follow-up tests in August included additional DNS leak and streaming tests in addition to a close look through the latest audit and newly released features like split-tunneling on MacOS and FastTrack. As always, I also reviewed its corporate structure and pored through its privacy policies, with special consideration to data collection and no-logging claims. Throughout the process, I communicated with Surfshark representatives via email and videoconference.Surfshark is still an excellent VPN that gets the job done for casual VPN users. It’s fast, has lots of servers, it's great for streaming, is easy to use across platforms and it has some cool and unique features. Surfshark is a great choice for someone who wants unlimited simultaneous connections and a slick user interface that’s packed with useful features. I’m also encouraged by the company's improving commitment to transparency. Here’s what you need to know about Surfshark and whether it’s the right choice for you.
Surfshark is an excellent budget-friendly VPN James Martin/CNETSpeed: Consistently fast connectionsKey takeaway: Surfshark has established itself over the years as a consistently speedy VPN that can easily handle just about any online activity, including data-heavy activities like streaming, gaming and torrenting. And I'm impressed with the new FastTrack feature's performance and believe it can be a game changer for certain users.21% speed loss in 2025 testsNumber of servers: 3,200-plusNumber of countries: 100Every VPN will slow your speeds somewhat, which is why we test to see how fast each VPN is relative to other providers. While other VPNs’ overall speed test results have fluctuated (at times dramatically) from year to year in our testing, Surfshark has maintained an even keel. Over the past four years of speed testing Surfshark, we’ve calculated a 19% speed loss once and a 17% speed loss three times. When I tested Surfshark’s speeds in 2025, I registered a marginally higher speed loss of 21%. That difference is negligible. In practical terms, it’s extraordinarily unlikely that you’d notice any difference in performance.Either way, the point is that Surfshark is a fast VPN. As a comparison, Surfshark’s speed performance sits behind the 3% speed loss we calculated with NordVPN and the 18% with ExpressVPN.I tested Surfshark’s speeds from my location in Ohio to Surfshark’s VPN servers in New York, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Singapore and Australia. I found Surfshark’s speed performance to be generally consistent with my expectations across all protocols, platforms and server locations that I tested. The only anomaly I noticed over the course of my speed tests was with OpenVPN on MacOS, where speeds to New York were slower than any other server location I tested. Generally, the closer the VPN server is to your physical location, the faster your connection speeds through the VPN should be. Yet the closest server location I tested yielded the slowest speeds on MacOS when using the OpenVPN protocol.On MacOS through OpenVPN, I registered an average speed of 269 Mbps on Surfshark’s New York servers. That’s slower than the 310 Mbps I registered on Surfshark’s France and Germany servers and the 291 Mbps I averaged through the UK. More surprisingly, speeds to New York were slower than the 276 Mbps and 282 Mbps that I averaged through servers in Australia and Singapore, respectively -- locations that are halfway across the globe from where I sit. New York is a popular VPN server location with a potentially higher load than other locations, which could lead to slower speeds. However, Surfshark says it has 78 servers in New York, which should be able to handle the traffic. I didn’t experience this anomaly while testing Surfshark’s speeds through OpenVPN on Windows.That said, speed performance was fastest on MacOS through WireGuard with an average speed across all locations coming in at 307 Mbps -- a 17% speed loss from my approximately 370 Mbps internet connection. Otherwise, I registered a 20% speed loss on MacOS through OpenVPN, 23% on Windows through WireGuard and 25% on Windows through OpenVPN, showing that Surfshark's VPN provides consistent speeds across platforms and protocols.New FastTrack feature can give your connection speeds a boost on certain server locationsAt the beginning of August, Surfshark released a brand-new feature called FastTrack, which the company says can boost your speeds up to 70%. FastTrack is similar to speed-boosting features from other VPNs like ExpressVPN's Lightway Turbo and Proton VPN's VPN Accelerator, but Surfshark's solution leverages its Nexus network to optimize the route your traffic takes to the server location you connect to. (Surfshark's Nexus network is also what powers the VPN's IP Rotator and Dynamic MultiHop features). Currently, FastTrack is only available on Surfshark's latest MacOS app and only through the Sydney, Seattle and Vancouver server locations. The feature will roll out to other locations and operating systems later on, but during a recent call, Surfshark's representatives didn't commit to a timeline. When I downloaded Surfshark's latest MacOS app, none of the FastTrack-enabled server locations had the FastTrack icon displayed next to them as documented in the blog post the company published on Aug. 7. I was confused at first, but it turns out the FastTrack icon only appears when routing your connection through multiple servers is the most optimized route to take. If connecting directly to the server is the optimal way to go, then the FastTrack icon doesn't show up. So don't panic if you don't immediately see the FastTrack icons even if you have Surfshark's latest MacOS app installed. Upon firing up the Surfshark app the next day, the FastTrack icons appeared for me.Based on a quick set of informal tests to get a feel for FastTrack's performance, the feature seemed to work well for me. Although my speeds didn't increase by 70% when connecting through FastTrack servers as opposed to non-FastTrack connections, the speed difference I measured between the two was noteworthy. My speeds through FastTrack connections in Sydney were about 60Mbps (or 20%) faster on average than connecting through Sydney without FastTrack enabled.
You can see the triangular FastTrack icon displayed next to the server location in the app. Screenshot by CNET
Speeds were considerably slower to Sydney without FastTrack enabled. Screenshot by CNETSimilarly, but to a lesser degree, my FastTrack speeds to Vancouver were about 16Mbps faster on average than without FastTrack. Your specific results may vary depending on your network and location. Users with slower or less stable internet connections may experience a more pronounced bump in speeds when using FastTrack, which could be especially beneficial if your internet connection isn't tops. Surfshark's representatives told me that the 70% figure was based on weeks of internal testing in different locations prior to the launch of the feature. Cost: Surfshark’s renewal price bump bites, but it comes with improvements to the serviceKey takeaway: Surfshark is still an excellent VPN that is easy to use and works well for streaming. The jump in its renewal prices means it’s no longer the wildly budget-friendly option it once was, but performance improvements make up for that higher cost. If you’re on a strict budget, you can get Mullvad or PIA cheaper.$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Money-back guarantee: 30 daysPayment options: Credit card, PayPal, Google Pay, CryptoApps: Available for MacOS, Windows, Linux (GUI), iOS, Android, Apple TV, Fire TV, Android TV, routersWorks with: Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Max, Amazon Prime Video and othersSurfshark’s 33% bump over the previous $60 annual renewal rate makes the VPN a less attractive option than it once was, making it no longer uncontested as CNET budget-friendly option. Still, that $79 annual renewal price is still significantly cheaper than rivals ExpressVPN's ($100 or $117 a year) and NordVPN's ($140 a year) renewal prices.If you only need a VPN for a single month, I recommend going with Mullvad, which costs only 5 euro (about $6) a month and doesn’t renew automatically as other VPN services do. In short, don’t choose Surfshark’s monthly plan unless you go into the transaction with the intention of asking for a refund within the first 30 days.As of publication, Surfshark’s base VPN plan costs $15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 annually) or $54 for the first 27 months (then $79 annually). Surfshark’s Starter tier is its most basic subscription plan and includes the VPN and Alternative ID features. Other, more expensive subscription tiers are also available that include Starter features along with additional bundled privacy and security tools like antivirus, data leak alerts, private search and data removal services. However, my evaluation of Surfshark focuses primarily on Surfshark’s Starter tier.Subscriptions and renewals are refreshingly clearBuying a Surfshark subscription is a simple affair, which you can do with a credit or debit card, PayPal, Google Pay or various cryptocurrencies. I like how Surfshark has made information regarding its subscription renewals much clearer than it had in years past on its checkout page.
Surfshark includes this transparent disclaimer about its renewal terms on the checkout page -- which is, unfortunately, not typical for the industry. Schreenshot by CNETFar too many VPN companies still struggle with subscription renewal transparency, as if they’re afraid to concede that prices will increase upon renewal or as if it’s on the customer to make that assumption. But Surfshark's approach serves as validation that being transparent about your renewal terms doesn't have to be scary.     Bundle options available from Surfshark If you're interested in exploring additional bundled options with Surfshark, here's a a breakdown of what the company offers:
Plan StarterOneOne-plusPrice $15.45 per month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 per year) or $54 for the first 27 months (then $79 per year)$18 per month, $51 for the first 15 months (then $99 per year) or $67 for the first 27 months (then $99 per year)$20.65 per month, $91 for the first 15 months (then $119 per year) or $108 for the first 27 months (then $119 per year)VPN YesYesYesAlternative ID YesYesYesAntivirus NoYesYesData leak alerts NoYesYesPrivate search NoYesYesIncogni data removal NoNoYes
VPN providers are leaning heavily into bundled services. A solid suite of bundled privacy and security tools are available from Surfshark, including antivirus, which isn't offered by most of Surfshark's competition. However, Surfshark doesn't offer a password manager at this time, which other top VPNs like ExpressVPN, NordVPN and Proton do. Adding a password manager could help boost Surfshark's appeal as a bundled privacy and security service provider.
Surfshark's app is slick, intuitive and snappier than everSurfshark’s app interface is slick, nicely laid out and easy to use across all platforms. I like the subtle tweaks Surfshark made this year that make the app even more user-friendly. Specifically, it displays the settings you've enabled, including the protocol you’re using, the kill switch, Bypasser, CleanWeb and Rotating IP. Also displayed are your connection time, current VPN IP address and the server you’re connected to. It’s a lot of information, but it’s all helpful information to have at your fingertips and Surfshark pulls it off without being obtrusive or making the app interface seem cluttered. I also like how you can just tap or click right on the app interface to go directly to each of the displayed feature’s settings without having to navigate through the settings menu. It’s a small detail, but it makes the app a lot more intuitive and shows that Surfshark cares about the finer details of the user experience.
Surfshark's desktop app includes helpful settings info at a glance. Screenshot by CNETOther key features you’ll get with Surfshark’s VPN include a kill switch, Dynamic MultiHop, Bypasser (split-tunneling), rotating IP and an ad and tracker blocker. All features worked smoothly across platforms including Windows, MacOS, Linux, iOS, Android, Apple TV and Fire TV. Surfshark is one of the only other VPNs besides PIA to offer split tunneling on iOS and MacOS, which is impressive considering that changes Apple made in 2020 caused issues with VPNs’ split tunneling functionality on Apple devices. Most other VPNs that include split tunneling haven’t offered the feature on Apple devices since, usually reserving it for Android and Windows users. Surfshark’s Bypasser feature allows you to route specific websites outside the tunnel on iOS, while on MacOS it allows you to bypass websites in addition to apps.  I was happy to see marked improvements in overall app performance across platforms as well. In the past, Surfshark often took an inordinate amount of time and multiple attempts to establish a successful connection. However, in my latest round of testing, I encountered no such issues. Surfshark’s app connected in a flash every single time I went to connect to a server regardless of what platform I was using or what location I was connecting to. Great for streaming, minus a couple of minor issuesStreaming with Surfshark was also mostly a smooth experience during my latest tests. That’s no surprise because the VPN is well-equipped for streaming geographically restricted content with its fast speeds and large server network. I was able to stream content from various popular streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Max and Amazon Prime Video through a number of different Surfshark server locations from across the globe -- though not without a few bumps in the road. During my testing, Netflix loaded up immediately without issue. However, Hulu detected the VPN when I tried to stream content on my Amazon Fire TV Stick. Otherwise, streaming with Surfshark on Fire TV Stick, Apple TV and other platforms was excellent and in line with what I would expect from a top-tier VPN.
Surfshark is great for unblocking regional Netflix libraries. Screenshot by CNETPrivacy and security: Unique privacy features and an increased commitment to transparency Key takeaway: Surfshark provides enough privacy for casual VPN users, but the Netherlands jurisdiction may scare off some privacy-critical users. That said, the addition of post-quantum encryption, EverLink and a renewed commitment to transparency should work for the vast majority of users' privacy needs. Jurisdiction: NetherlandsEncryption: AES-256-GCM, ChaCha20RAM-only server infrastructureNo leaks detectedProtocols available: OpenVPN, WireGuard, IKEv2Surfshark’s privacy and security is enough for casual users looking for general online privacy. But there are a few reasons why you may want to look elsewhere if your privacy needs are critical (for example if you’re in a country with strict internet censorship and surveillance or if you’re a journalist, attorney, physician, activist or whistleblower). One reason privacy-critical users may want to avoid Surfshark is due to its Netherlands jurisdiction. Although the Netherlands doesn’t impose any mandatory data retention laws, the country is part of the 14-Eyes data-sharing alliance, which means that if data were retained, it could be shared with other countries. Additionally, Surfshark is still playing catchup when it comes to transparency. I’m encouraged by the results of the independent audit report from Deloitte that Surfshark published in June, which found that "the configuration of IT systems and management of the supporting IT operations is properly prepared, in all material respect in accordance with Surfshark's [no-logs policy]." But the latest audit report is the company’s first audit of any sort since 2022. And while the positive outcome of the audit is encouraging, the full report is not available to review by the general public, rather only to Surfshark users through their account dashboards. For maximum transparency, I'd like to see Surfshark make the full audit reports publicly available, like ExpressVPN does.Jastremskas told me that Surfshark is committed to commissioning annual third-party audits going forward, which is reassuring. Not getting audited on a regular basis doesn’t necessarily mean that a VPN isn’t doing what it says it’s doing, but regular audits act as a crucial trust signal that privacy-critical users shouldn’t ignore.Surfshark says in its Privacy Policy that the company doesn’t “collect any information about what you do online (your visited IP addresses, browsing history, session information, used bandwidth, connection time stamps, network traffic or any other similar information).” But a VPN’s no logs claims are impossible to verify with 100% certainty, so your only option is to take the VPN provider’s word for it. No-logs audits can help, but can only go so far.That said, I like that Surfshark will be commissioning audits on a yearly basis and that the company has begun publishing a quarterly transparency report -- which details the number of legal requests it receives each quarter and if the company was obligated to disclose any user data in relation to the received requests. The latest report states that none of the nearly 350,000 requests received between April and June 2025 resulted in Surfshark disclosing user data. Surfshark’s supplements basic privacy features with creative and forward-looking toolsSurfshark handles standard privacy protections well, including DNS leak protection, server infrastructure and killswitch functionality.I ran thorough DNS leak tests on multiple servers using each available protocol across various devices, and I didn’t detect any leaks whatsoever. Surfshark uses industry-standard AES 256-bit encryption for OpenVPN and IKEv2 connections and ChaCha 20 for WireGuard connections. Surfshark’s Camouflage Mode (obfuscation) is available when using the OpenVPN protocol and disguises your VPN traffic as regular HTTPS traffic, which can be crucial if you’re using Surfshark in a region where VPNs are restricted or outlawed entirely. I also like the fact that Surfshark employs a 100% RAM-only server infrastructure, meaning that its server fleet runs on volatile memory and theoretically no data is saved to a hard disk, which can help give users extra peace of mind that their data is safe and cannot be disclosed to a third party.   I also like the option on Windows to set the kill switch to soft or strict mode. The soft kill switch works like a traditional kill switch and cuts your internet connection if the VPN inadvertently disconnects, protecting your privacy and preventing IP leaks. The strict kill switch cuts your internet any time you disconnect from the VPN, even intentionally -- which offers greater protection against any potential sensitive traffic going unencrypted. You also have the option to enable a strict kill switch on your Android device using the native Android kill switch, which won’t let you use the internet at all unless you’re connected to the VPN.But the best VPNs go beyond these basics, with innovative features that give users options for more privacy, utility or both.I’m continuously impressed with the Dynamic MultiHop feature, which goes a step further than the traditional double VPN: While most VPNs that offer double hop connections usually only offer a handful of preset connections, Surfshark allows you to choose any pair of servers you want from its fleet of server locations in 100 different countries. Keep in mind, though, that while a double VPN connection boosts your privacy, your speed will take even more of a hit due to your traffic being encrypted twice.
With Surfshark's MultiHop feature, you can create custom double-VPN connections out of any two server locations. Screenshot by CNETOne of the most unique and helpful privacy features that Surfshark offers with its basic VPN plan is its Alternative ID tool. With Alternative ID, you can create a full alter-ego complete with full name, birthdate, physical address and email address that you can use online to fill out forms or sign up for email lists without having to provide your actual personal information. I had a lot of fun playing around with the tool and coming up with different personas. You can either come up with everything on your own manually or have Alternative ID automatically generate the information for you. Your alternative email address will automatically forward emails to your designated actual email address. You can create up to three alternative email addresses and give them different labels based on what you use them for. An alternative phone number is also available for an additional $3 a month. All in all, it’s a really cool suite of features that can help you protect your personal data when you need to provide information to access a website or online service.The Rotating IP feature is another useful tool. When enabled and connected to a server, the IP Rotator automatically changes your VPN IP address periodically every few minutes without disconnecting you from the server. This gives you an extra layer of privacy because it makes it that much more difficult for others to track you online.New, innovative EverLink feature can self-heal a broken VPN connectionWhile not exactly the same as a kill switch, Surfshark's brand-new EverLink feature can help ensure your VPN connection stays stable and prevent your traffic from being exposed unencrypted and your IP address from being leaked. While a kill switch automatically cuts your internet connection in the event that your VPN unexpectedly disconnects, Surfshark’s EverLink feature can automatically and seamlessly reconfigure the VPN tunnel without breaking the connection. Surfshark refers to EverLink as a “self-healing server infrastructure” and it’s an innovative one-of-a-kind feature not offered by other VPNs. EverLink is enabled automatically when using the WireGuard protocol. However, even with EverLink, I still recommend enabling your kill switch at all times when using Surfshark or any other VPN for added peace of mind.Surfshark's post-quantum protections help future-proof the serviceI’m also happy that Surfshark rolled out its post-quantum protection for WireGuard this year. In addition to Surfshark, only a handful of other VPN providers -- including ExpressVPN, Mullvad and NordVPN -- offer post-quantum encryption. It’s an important step because post-quantum protections can help guard against potential future threats from quantum computers. Surfshark’s post-quantum layer is “an additional layer of security for our VPN protocols. For now, we are mainly working on WireGuard, but also exploring the possibilities to implement post-quantum layer for other protocols like OpenVPN,” Justas Pukys, Surfshark’s Senior Product Manager for VPN told me during an interview. Surfshark’s a bit more expensive than it used to be, but it's starting to make a compelling case for its higher renewal pricesWhile I was critical of Surfshark's increased renewal pricing earlier this year, given the lack of noteworthy improvements or many other major changes, the company was clearly hard at work in the background on significant developments that came to fruition over the course of the year. The addition of post-quantum encryption, a fresh no-logs audit, EverLink and FastTrack definitely count for a lot and help alleviate the renewal price sticker shock, and bump up Surfshark’s overall value compared to what it was earlier in the year. Additionally, the team hinted at a few more “non-traditional” parental control- and anti-phishing-related VPN features coming down the pike, which could add value in the future. Nevertheless, Surfshark is still cheaper than ExpressVPN and NordVPN even with the price hike, and I still recommend it to casual users as a reasonably priced alternative.Ultimately, Surfshark is still a top-notch VPN that goes above and beyond what many similarly priced or more expensive alternatives can do.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
ATTILA TOMASCHEK
Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.