How to Build a Business That Thrives in Tough Economic Times | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Growing a Business
5 Principles for Building a Business That Thrives When the Economy Doesn't
These five principles helped me grow my business during one of the worst recessions in our lifetimes.
By
Mike Feazel
Edited by
Chelsea Brown
Sep 12, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Essential problems are more important than aspirational ones.
Affordable alternatives to big-ticket items can create new markets.
Controlling your operating costs reduces your risk.
Aging systems and infrastructure are an overlooked but essential market.
Green solutions can be profitable as well as planet-saving.
Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.
Tough economic times are scary for businesses and consumers, but the solution isn't to take your foot off the gas. I opened the first Roof Maxx dealership in 2019, just one year before the Covid-19 pandemic. Today, it's a nationally recognized residential roof restoration brand with an annual revenue of nearly $200 million in 2025.Here are five key principles I used to guide my business decisions during those difficult years.Related: How Great Entrepreneurs Find Ways to Win During Economic Downturns
1. Essential problems are more important than aspirational onesA lot of founders focus on flashy, dramatic solutions that dominate headlines, like getting humanity to Mars or being the first to create AGI. But sometimes, those are solutions to problems that don't really exist — or at least, that don't exist urgently for everyday people.Most people aren't worried about whether they'll ever set foot on the surface of the red planet. They're worried about what will happen to this planet in their lifetimes, because they're worried about their homes.
So when my brother Todd and I started our business, we didn't shoot for the moon — or Mars. We focused on helping people extend the lifespan of their asphalt shingle rooftops and avoid the waste created by replacing them prematurely. It was a simple problem, but one we saw impacting homeowners all over America. That meant we had a nation full of target customers from the start.2. Affordable alternatives to big-ticket items can create new marketsOne of the biggest challenges we faced during those early years was that no market existed for our product. Roof restoration already existed in commercial roofing, but it was for metal and flat roofs only. Everyone in the residential space was selling replacements at the time, and there was no alternative for asphalt shingles until we invented one.Even in the best of times, creating a brand new niche is a tall order. But the economic uncertainty of the pandemic actually turned out to be a blessing in disguise. When homeowners heard that our treatments cost up to 80% less than the cost of fully replacing their shingles, it no longer mattered that we were doing something previously unheard of in the residential space. The cost savings alone were enough to convince many people to opt in.Related: 5 Tips to Create Affordable Products Without Compromising on Quality
3. Controlling your operating costs reduces your riskScaling any business comes with a certain amount of unavoidable risk, which is why many companies tend to be more careful about pursuing growth during times of economic upheaval. But stagnation is an even bigger risk.Think of it this way: If you're climbing a volcano and it erupts, your first instinct might be to freeze. But if you stay on your current ledge, you're probably not going to make it. As scary as it is, you have to move.The key is to stay agile. If you were the climber, you'd probably ditch your backpack and any non-essential items so that they wouldn't slow you down. As a business in an uncertain economy, the same principle applies: You want to become financially lean so you can scale with less risk.For us, that meant setting up a national network of dealers instead of opening and managing new locations ourselves. It didn't just help us expand into new markets with less overhead; it also allowed us to invest more heavily in providing each dealer with the training resources and materials they needed to succeed. At a time when many Americans were looking for new ways to earn but were nervous about starting their own businesses, this gave everyone a leg up.
We couldn't afford to take on that kind of risk during a pandemic, but by providing comprehensive training resources and remote support to our partners, we gave them everything they needed to bring the brand across North America.4. Aging systems and infrastructure are an overlooked but essential marketTime impacts everyone and everything. Even when budgets are tight, things still get old and need maintenance to stay functional.For some of those things — like rooftops — putting off the work isn't an option. 29% of asphalt shingle roofs have less than four years of usable life left, and that clock keeps ticking regardless of market conditions.If you can build your business around servicing assets that are both necessary and depreciating, you can always count on a steady stream of customers. We knew people might defer their landscaping plans during a pandemic, but they wouldn't let the roofs over their heads degrade to the point where they put their properties at risk.
5. Green solutions can be profitable as well as planet-savingLast but not least, we have to talk about the value of offering eco-friendly products and services. It's a mistake to view green solutions as luxuries that people will only want to purchase during times of financial comfort.During rocky economic periods, the last thing people want to do is waste resources. If they can save money by maintaining something instead of throwing it away, they will. And since many green solutions focus on reducing waste, these services have more appeal when the economy suffers, not less.With Roof Maxx, we offered homeowners a way to keep their current asphalt shingles in good condition instead of having to pay for a full roof replacement. Not only did it save an average of 3.8 tons of landfill waste per home, but it also cost up to 80% less. The fact that we were eco-friendly wasn't a bonus; it was a key part of the value we were offering at a time when every saved shingle (and dollar) mattered.Related: Build a Business That Helps People Feel Good About Doing the Right Thing
Make your business recession-resistantThe principles that helped my business grow during one of the worst recessions in our lifetimes weren't rocket science. They were simple:Focus on an essential problemOffer an affordable alternative to something expensiveKeep operating costs in checkFocus on aging systems or infrastructureHelp customers stay lean and greenYou can use these to insulate your business as well. Here's to sustainable growth, no matter what the future holds.
Tough economic times are scary for businesses and consumers, but the solution isn't to take your foot off the gas. I opened the first Roof Maxx dealership in 2019, just one year before the Covid-19 pandemic. Today, it's a nationally recognized residential roof restoration brand with an annual revenue of nearly $200 million in 2025.Here are five key principles I used to guide my business decisions during those difficult years.Related: How Great Entrepreneurs Find Ways to Win During Economic Downturns
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Mike Feazel
Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor
CEO & Co-Founder of Roof Maxx
Mike Feazel, co-founder of Roof Maxx, is a roofing industry leader known for innovation and sustainability. A former top contractor and columnist, he’s a sought-after voice on roofing trends, business growth, and plant-based solutions that extend roof life.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Business News
This AI Startup Just Received $900 Million From Nvidia to Hire Its CEO and License Its Technology
The CEO and other employees of AI chip startup Enfabrica are joining Nvidia as part of the deal.
By
Sherin Shibu
Growing a Business
Why Dave Portnoy's One Bite Pizza Fest Shows the Real Power of Live Events
Dave Portnoy's One Bite Pizza Fest turned his viral YouTube pizza reviews into a 10,000-person event with 40 pizzerias and major sponsors, showing how live experiences can turn digital influence into community.
By
Leo Zevin
Marketing
How Small Businesses Can Outperform Big Brands With This Simple Marketing Formula
Here's how AI and local marketing together are helping entrepreneurs compete with and even outperform big brands.
By
Fahim Ludin
Business News
A Longtime NBA Star Has Been Holding Bitcoin For Years Because He Lost His Password: 'We Never Sold Anything'
Two-time NBA Champion Kevin Durant was locked out of his Coinbase account before gaining access again on Thursday.
By
Erin Davis
Side Hustle
How I Used Side Hustles to Pay Off $40,000 Debt in 1 Year
Marissa Cazem Potts wanted to take control of her financial future.
By
Amanda Breen
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC