The best iPhone 17 cases of 2025 (including the Air, Pro, and Max models) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: September 12, 2025 at 9:37 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
Updated on: September 12, 2025 at 9:37 AM PDT
The best iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases you can buy
ZDNET editors have tested dozens of iPhone cases over the years to help you choose the right one for your new iPhone 17, iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro, or iPhone 17 Pro Max.
Written by
Alison DeNisco Rayome, Managing EditorManaging Editor
Reviewed by
Allison Murray
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Nomad Modern Leather case | Best iPhone 17 case overall
Best iPhone 17 case overall
Nomad Modern Leather case
View now View at Nomad Goods Smartish Gripmunk case | Best iPhone 17 case runner-up
Best iPhone 17 case runner-up
Smartish Gripmunk case
View now View at Amazon Apple TechWoven case | Best iPhone 17 Pro case
Best iPhone 17 Pro case
Apple TechWoven case
View now View at Apple Pitaka Ultra Slim case | Best thin iPhone 17 case
Best thin iPhone 17 case
Pitaka Ultra Slim case
View now View at Pitaka Spigen Ultra Hybrid Mag Fit case | Best budget iPhone 17 case
Best budget iPhone 17 case
Spigen Ultra Hybrid Mag Fit case
View now View at Amazon Torras 360-degree Ostand | Best clear iPhone 17 case
Best clear iPhone 17 case
Torras 360-degree Ostand
View now View at Amazon Supcase UB Grip case | Best rugged iPhone 17 case
Best rugged iPhone 17 case
Supcase UB Grip case
View now View at Supcase Casetify Impact case | Best stylish iPhone 17 case
Best stylish iPhone 17 case
Casetify Impact case
View now View at Amazon
Apple's latest lineup of iPhone has arrived: On Tuesday at an Apple Event in Cupertino, the company unveiled the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, iPhone 17 Pro Max, and the iPhone Air -- a brand new model and the thinnest iPhone ever made. The new phones feature the A19 chipset, and, for the first time, a 120Hz ProMotion display, with a new camera module for the iPhone 17 Pro models. If you're looking to upgrade, you can preorder the iPhone 17 from Apple and Best Buy, or phone carriers like Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile now (make sure you check out all the trade-in deals available, too). All iPhone 17 models will hit shelves on Sept. 19. To prepare for their arrival, we found the best iPhone 17 cases to protect your brand-new phone.Also: The best phones we've tested this yearWhat is the best iPhone 17 case right now?Our pick for the best iPhone 17 case is the Nomad Modern Leather case, thanks to its mix of style, durability, and premium feel. But if you're looking for a more traditional case that comes in several colors and designs (and is less expensive), check out our runner-up, the Smartish Gripmunk case. Read on for the rest of our picks for the best iPhone 17 cases so far. (Almost all of the cases on this list have a version for each iPhone 17 model, including the Air.) Also: You can preorder Apple's new devices now: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and moreSee iPhone cases at Amazon
Sort by
All
The best iPhone 17 cases of 2025 Show less
View now at Nomad Goods The Nomad Modern Leather case is our pick for the best iPhone case yet again this year. ZDNET editor-in-chief Jason Hiner said he loves Nomad for "its mix of style, durability, and premium feel." The case features 8-foot drop protection. Leather isn't for everyone (Nomad says that it sources its leather sustainably). But if you're in the market for a sleek leather case that's MagSafe compatible and offers camera protection -- and you want to invest in a quality product -- this is the case for you. Nomad Modern Leather case features: MagSafe compatible | 8-foot drop protection | Sustainably sourced leather
Pros
Premium feel
8-foot drop protection
Durable
Cons
Pricy
Nomad Modern Leather case Best iPhone 17 case overall
The Nomad Modern Leather case is our pick for the best iPhone case yet again this year. ZDNET editor-in-chief Jason Hiner said he loves Nomad for "its mix of style, durability, and premium feel." The case features 8-foot drop protection. Leather isn't for everyone (Nomad says that it sources its leather sustainably). But if you're in the market for a sleek leather case that's MagSafe compatible and offers camera protection -- and you want to invest in a quality product -- this is the case for you. Nomad Modern Leather case features: MagSafe compatible | 8-foot drop protection | Sustainably sourced leather
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Smartish's Gripmunk cases combine a slim style and trendy designs with top-notch protection. They feature a grippy texture and raised edges to keep your screen and camera safe. They're also affordable, at just $20 for the MagSafe version (and $15 for non-MagSafe). The cases have been drop tested 50 times from 6 feet high, according to the company, and phone screens and cameras remained safe. That's not as protective as some others on the list, but is more than enough for daily wear and tear. "Gripmunk feels better in the hand than any other case I've tried, and I feel more confident about drops with that case on," said ZDNET editor-in-chief Jason Hiner.The cases also feature protective air pocket corners and a soft microfiber inner lining to protect against scratches. The Smartish Gripmunk iPhone 17 cases come in several colors and fun designs that are worth checking out, especially for the price.Smartish Gripmunk case features: MagSafe compatible | 6-foot drop protection | Several colors and designs
Pros
MagSafe compatible
Inexpensive
Fun colors and designs
Cons
Less drop protection than others
Smartish Gripmunk case Best iPhone 17 case runner-up
Smartish's Gripmunk cases combine a slim style and trendy designs with top-notch protection. They feature a grippy texture and raised edges to keep your screen and camera safe. They're also affordable, at just $20 for the MagSafe version (and $15 for non-MagSafe). The cases have been drop tested 50 times from 6 feet high, according to the company, and phone screens and cameras remained safe. That's not as protective as some others on the list, but is more than enough for daily wear and tear. "Gripmunk feels better in the hand than any other case I've tried, and I feel more confident about drops with that case on," said ZDNET editor-in-chief Jason Hiner.The cases also feature protective air pocket corners and a soft microfiber inner lining to protect against scratches. The Smartish Gripmunk iPhone 17 cases come in several colors and fun designs that are worth checking out, especially for the price.Smartish Gripmunk case features: MagSafe compatible | 6-foot drop protection | Several colors and designs
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Apple Our pick for the best iPhone 17 Pro case is Apple's TechWoven case, which has seen major upgrades over past versions, according to ZDNET editor-in-chief Jason Hiner. He got to go hands-on with this case at Apple's iPhone event, and said that it "feels grippy on the sides and very sturdy," and will likely be the first case he uses with his iPhone 17 Pro Max. He also said it seems unlikely to scuff. The MagSafe-compatible case is made from a technical woven fabric, made from 100% recycled polyester. You can also add a crossbody strap if you like. This case is only available for the Pro models. Apple TechWoven case features: MagSafe compatible | Grippy, durable design | Made from 100% recycled material
Pros
MagSafe compatible
Grippy design
Made from recycled materials
Cons
Pricey
Apple TechWoven case Best iPhone 17 Pro case
Our pick for the best iPhone 17 Pro case is Apple's TechWoven case, which has seen major upgrades over past versions, according to ZDNET editor-in-chief Jason Hiner. He got to go hands-on with this case at Apple's iPhone event, and said that it "feels grippy on the sides and very sturdy," and will likely be the first case he uses with his iPhone 17 Pro Max. He also said it seems unlikely to scuff. The MagSafe-compatible case is made from a technical woven fabric, made from 100% recycled polyester. You can also add a crossbody strap if you like. This case is only available for the Pro models. Apple TechWoven case features: MagSafe compatible | Grippy, durable design | Made from 100% recycled material
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Pitaka Pitaka's ultra-thin iPhone 17 case aims to fit the phone like a glove, at just 0.88mm thick and weighing as little as 17 grams. It's made from aramid fibers, which are virtually the same as Kevlar, the fabric used in bulletproof vests -- making it durable and scratch-resistant, and also MagSafe compatible. "Pitaka is one of the originators of the ultra-thin Aramid Fiber case that you see so many brands remix today," said ZDNET editor and phone reviewer Kerry Wan, who tested the iPhone 16 version of the Ultra Slim case. "With such cases, you're trading drop protection in favor of slimness and minimalism." This case comes in four colors, including black. There's also a PitaTap version -- basically, one where the case covers the camera button but still allows you to control it, instead of leaving the button open. The Ultra Slim case is $50, while the PitaTap edition is $60.Pitaka Ultra Slim case features: MagSafe compatible | Ultra-thin form factor | Camera protection | Aramid fiber material
Pros
Thin form factor -MagSafe -Made from durable materials
Scratch-resistant
Cons
Minimal drop protection
Pricy
Pitaka Ultra Slim case Best thin iPhone 17 case
Pitaka's ultra-thin iPhone 17 case aims to fit the phone like a glove, at just 0.88mm thick and weighing as little as 17 grams. It's made from aramid fibers, which are virtually the same as Kevlar, the fabric used in bulletproof vests -- making it durable and scratch-resistant, and also MagSafe compatible. "Pitaka is one of the originators of the ultra-thin Aramid Fiber case that you see so many brands remix today," said ZDNET editor and phone reviewer Kerry Wan, who tested the iPhone 16 version of the Ultra Slim case. "With such cases, you're trading drop protection in favor of slimness and minimalism." This case comes in four colors, including black. There's also a PitaTap version -- basically, one where the case covers the camera button but still allows you to control it, instead of leaving the button open. The Ultra Slim case is $50, while the PitaTap edition is $60.Pitaka Ultra Slim case features: MagSafe compatible | Ultra-thin form factor | Camera protection | Aramid fiber material
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Spigen's iPhone 17 cases are reliable and affordable, starting at just $15 for the popular Ultra Hybrid Mag Fit case. These cases are also extremely well-reviewed on Amazon, with 4.6/5 stars and over 11,000 reviews. The camera control button is covered and protected but still functional, and it features military-grade drop protection (though the company doesn't specify from how high). These cases also use blue resin for anti-yellowing clarity, the company says. If you're looking for a solid, low-cost case, this is a good option. It comes in several colors, including clear, as well. Spigen Ultra Hubrid Mag Fit case features: MagSafe compatible | Lower cost | Camera button protection | Anti-yellowing resin
Pros
MagSafe compatible
Inexpensive
Anti-yellowing
Cons
Less drop protection than others
Spigen Ultra Hybrid Mag Fit case Best budget iPhone 17 case
Spigen's iPhone 17 cases are reliable and affordable, starting at just $15 for the popular Ultra Hybrid Mag Fit case. These cases are also extremely well-reviewed on Amazon, with 4.6/5 stars and over 11,000 reviews. The camera control button is covered and protected but still functional, and it features military-grade drop protection (though the company doesn't specify from how high). These cases also use blue resin for anti-yellowing clarity, the company says. If you're looking for a solid, low-cost case, this is a good option. It comes in several colors, including clear, as well. Spigen Ultra Hubrid Mag Fit case features: MagSafe compatible | Lower cost | Camera button protection | Anti-yellowing resin
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Torras cases are a longtime ZDNET editor favorite for their versatility and durability. As the name suggests, the phone's MagSafe kickstand ring lets you adjust with 360-degree rotation and up to 170-degree tilt flexibility, making it easier for you to watch content or FaceTime on your phone. The case passed 16-foot military-grade drop tests. And the clear option lets you show off the color of your new iPhone. It's also one of the more affordable options.ZDNET reviews editor Kerry Wan tested this case for the iPhone 16, and noted that its MagSafe ring could keep compatible accessories attached to the iPhone at virtually every angle. Torras 360-degree Ostand features: MagSafe compatible | Rotating kickstand ring | 16-foot drop protection
Pros
MagSafe compatible
16-food drop protection
Innovative rotating kickstand
Cons
Few other color options
Torras 360-degree Ostand Best clear iPhone 17 case
Torras cases are a longtime ZDNET editor favorite for their versatility and durability. As the name suggests, the phone's MagSafe kickstand ring lets you adjust with 360-degree rotation and up to 170-degree tilt flexibility, making it easier for you to watch content or FaceTime on your phone. The case passed 16-foot military-grade drop tests. And the clear option lets you show off the color of your new iPhone. It's also one of the more affordable options.ZDNET reviews editor Kerry Wan tested this case for the iPhone 16, and noted that its MagSafe ring could keep compatible accessories attached to the iPhone at virtually every angle. Torras 360-degree Ostand features: MagSafe compatible | Rotating kickstand ring | 16-foot drop protection
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Supcase If you're looking for a case that can handle outdoor adventures or larger drops, consider the Supcase UB Grip case. This MagSafe-compatible case includes a kickstand, a button to protect the camera, and military-grade drop protection up to 15 feet. It also features an anti-slip grip and textured sides to prevent accidental drops. The extra protection is also more affordable, starting at $26. ZDNET deals and shopping editor Kayla Solino has tested other Supcase accessories, and vouches for the brand's rugged design and strong price point. The case comes in four colors, and is compatible with every iPhone 17 model.Supcase UB Grip case features: MagSafe compatible | 15-foot drop protection | Kickstand | Rugged design
Pros
MagSafe compatible
15-foot drop protection
Kickstand
Cons
Bulkier than others
Supcase UB Grip case Best rugged iPhone 17 case
If you're looking for a case that can handle outdoor adventures or larger drops, consider the Supcase UB Grip case. This MagSafe-compatible case includes a kickstand, a button to protect the camera, and military-grade drop protection up to 15 feet. It also features an anti-slip grip and textured sides to prevent accidental drops. The extra protection is also more affordable, starting at $26. ZDNET deals and shopping editor Kayla Solino has tested other Supcase accessories, and vouches for the brand's rugged design and strong price point. The case comes in four colors, and is compatible with every iPhone 17 model.Supcase UB Grip case features: MagSafe compatible | 15-foot drop protection | Kickstand | Rugged design
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Casetify's Impact Case is its durable, everyday option that has sold over 15 million units worldwide. It offers 8.2-foot drop protection and 4x military grade standard, and no lifted edges. It comes in several fun, colorful designs, while still offering durability and MagSafe compatibility.ZDNET deals and shopping editor Kayla Solino has tested Casetify Impact cases, and said she likes that they're durable and come in several fun designs -- but also notes that they can be expensive, with the iPhone 17 cases starting at $70. "They're worth it if you're going to buy one or two cases over the time you have your phone, but if you're doing more than that, I'd go for something cheaper," she said. Casetify Impact case features: MagSafe compatible | Drop protection | Several fun designs
Pros
MagSafe compatible
8.2-foot drop protection
Fun designs
Cons
Pricy
Casetify Impact case Best stylish iPhone 17 case
Casetify's Impact Case is its durable, everyday option that has sold over 15 million units worldwide. It offers 8.2-foot drop protection and 4x military grade standard, and no lifted edges. It comes in several fun, colorful designs, while still offering durability and MagSafe compatibility.ZDNET deals and shopping editor Kayla Solino has tested Casetify Impact cases, and said she likes that they're durable and come in several fun designs -- but also notes that they can be expensive, with the iPhone 17 cases starting at $70. "They're worth it if you're going to buy one or two cases over the time you have your phone, but if you're doing more than that, I'd go for something cheaper," she said. Casetify Impact case features: MagSafe compatible | Drop protection | Several fun designs
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less Also: The best MagSafe accessories for your iPhoneWhat is the best iPhone 17 case?
The best iPhone 17 case depends on your individual needs. Our top picks are the Nomad Modern Leather case, and the Smartish Gripmunk case. Compare prices and top features of all of the cases on this list below.iPhone 17 casesPriceMagSafeDrop ProtectionNomad Modern Leather case$55YesYesSmartish Gripmunk case$20YesYesApple TechWoven case$59YesYesPitaka Ultra Slim$50YesYesSpigen Ultra Hybrid Mag Fit$15YesYesSupcase UB Grip$26YesYesTorras 360-degree Ostand$45YesYesCasetify Impact$70YesYes
Show more
Which is the right iPhone 17 case for you?
Choose this iPhone 17 case…If you want…Nomad Modern Leather caseA stylish and durable case with a premium feel. Smartish Gripmunk caseA very good, affordable everyday case with great color and design options.Apple TechWoven caseA durable, grippy case for the iPhone 17 Pro models.Pitaka Ultra SlimAn extremely slim, lightweight case.Spigen Ultra Hybrid Mag FitAn inexpensive, well-reviewed case.Supcase UB GripA more rugged case that will protect your new phone on adventures.Torras 360-degree OstandA clear case with strong drop protection and an innovative rotating kickstand ring.Casetify ImpactA case that comes in lots of different designs while still offering drop protection.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing the best iPhone 17 case
Our picks for the best iPhone 17 cases reflect different needs and features. We took the following factors into consideration when making our picks: Size: Phone cases can add bulk to your device. If you're looking for a sturdier case that offers lots of protection, you might not mind. But if you're looking for something more sleek, you'll want to consider the size.Durability: No one wants to spend money on a phone case only to have it break after a few months, or not adequately protect your device. The best cases last for a long time while also surviving daily wear and drops. You should look for a case made from high-quality materials such as wood, polycarbonate, or silicone. Style: Let's face it, many of us want a pretty phone case to look at. We look at cases and determine if their style matches their performance and features. It's OK if you'd rather have a stylish case over a protective one.Price: Price is a very important factor when considering the right phone case for you. Many people do not want to spend more than $20 on a phone case, and we are aware of that, and tried to balance affordability with performance.
Show more
How did we choose these iPhone 17 cases?
When considering the best iPhone 17 cases, we took into account past testing we've done on cases and mobile accessories, researched options from trusted brands, got recommendations from ZDNET editors and writers, and scoured online reviews. When we go hands-on with a phone case, we consider ease of setup, performance quality, functionality, and value for the price.
Show more
FAQs on iPhone 17 cases
When does the iPhone 17 come out?
The iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max will be available for preorder starting Friday, Sept. 12. The phones will hit shelves on Sept. 19.
Show more
Does the iPhone 17 need a case?
Whether or not your new iPhone needs a case is ultimately your choice. We recommend putting a case on your phone, since these are expensive devices that you want to last and function long-term through daily life and the inevitable drops and bumps that happen.
Show more
What cases work for the iPhone 17?
You can find several phone cases that fit the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max models. Brands like Spigen, Casetify, Dbrand, Supcase, and more are offering options for the new Apple phones. We'll continue to update this list as we find and test more iPhone 17 cases.
Show more
Latest updatesSeptember 10, 2025: Added Apple's TechWoven case as Best iPhone 17 Pro case. Added in links to phone carrier deals.September 9, 2025: First published story.
Further ZDNET Tech Coverage
Smartphones
Best Android phone
Best smartphone
Best Samsung phone
Best iPhone
Best rugged Phones
Best Google phone
Best foldable phone
Best flip phone
Best 5G phone
Best cheap phone
Best stylus phone
Best Motorola phone
Smartwatches
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Tablets
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Laptops
Best laptop overall
Best Linux laptop
Best laptop for graphic design
Best lightweight laptops
Best Lenovo laptop
Best budget gaming laptop
Best 15-inch laptop
Best laptop under $1000
Best Windows laptop
Best laptop for video editing
TVs
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
Other Tech Resources
Is Temu legit? Everything to know before placing an order
How to download YouTube videos for free
How to screen record in Windows 10 or 11
How to create a drop down list in excel
How to use Microsoft Designer’s Image Creator
How to upgrade your incompatible Windows 10 PC to Windows 11
How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
How to screen mirror Android to TV
How to turn on private DNS mode on Android
What is ChatGPT?
How to record a call on iPhone
How to record a call on your Android phone
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use