Best and Worst Looks Pro Athletes Have Worn This Year - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Entertainment
The best and worst looks pro athletes have worn this year
By
Amanda Krause
Simone Biles at a Netflix event in June.
Steve Granitz/Getty Images
2025-09-16T12:22:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Professional athletes have been making fashion statements throughout 2025.
Gymnasts like Simone Biles and Suni Lee have especially stood out in stunning looks.
Other stars like Travis Kelce missed the mark on occasion.
It's been a big year for athletes so far.Simone Biles' documentary was nominated for an Emmy, Tom Brady served as a Super Bowl commentator for the first time, and Travis Kelce got engaged to Taylor Swift.
The above stars have also made their mark on the fashion world at 2025 red-carpet events — sometimes in a good way, and sometimes not.Here are the best and worst looks they and other professional athletes have worn this year.
Shaun White showed the power of a tailored suit at a David Yurman party.
Shaun White attends a David Yurman party in Miami.
Ivan Apfel/Getty Images
At the May event, he posed for photographers in a three-piece outfit and matching dress shoes. The former included skinny trousers, a sheer white button-up top, and a brown blazer.Not only was the suit perfectly tailored to him, but it also complemented his red-toned hair and beard.The Olympic snowboarder completed the look with a gold chain adorned with two David Yurman dog tags: a $5,500 yellow-gold piece in a chevron print, and a $10,500 yellow-gold tag embellished with diamonds.
Stephen Curry chose a suit that was more drab than fashionable for a Time100 event in May.
Stephen Curry at the TIME100 event in New York City.
Craig Barritt/Getty Images
His three-piece suit was dull in color — a gray-toned shade of brown — and seemingly too large for the NBA star. His jacket hung loose around his torso, and his pants draped over his dress shoes.Some tailoring and jewelry could have turned the look around.
Simone Biles looked like a princess at an event promoting her Netflix documentary, which was nominated for an Emmy this year.
Simone Biles attends a Netflix event in Hollywood.
Steve Granitz/Getty Images
On the purple carpet in June, she was photographed wearing a minidress from Oh Polly. The beige piece was strapless, feminine, and decorated from top to bottom with floral appliqués.It was her accessories, though, that really stole the show. On her left hand, she wore a delicate chain lined with three diamonds and an Audemars Piguet Royal Oak mini watch valued at around $80,000.
The lace dress Jordan Chiles wore at the American Music Awards overpowered her.
Jordan Chiles at the American Music Awards in Las Vegas.
David Becker/Getty Images
Chiles attended the event in late May wearing a Marine Serre design. The strapless piece had a plunging, scooped neckline with crisscross straps, a long bubble skirt, and exaggerated side pockets that emphasized her hips.Though the gown's cream color and lace fabric looked stunning on the Olympic gymnast, its numerous details were too much for her small frame.
Billionaire basketball star LeBron James showed how to do quiet luxury the right way.
LeBron James and Savannah James at the Hammer Museum Gala in Los Angeles.
Lisa O'Connor/AFP/Getty Images
He attended the Hammer Museum Gala in May alongside his wife, Savannah James, who stunned in a ruffled dress from Issey Miyake.James, on the other hand, wore black trousers with a $3,800 Damier jacket from Louis Vuitton in tan and $1,690 sneakers from the designer brand.The outfit was sharp, simple, and complementary to his wife's ensemble.
Tom Brady could have put more effort into one of his more casual outfits.
Tom Brady at his CardVault store in New Jersey.
Michael Simon/Getty Images
In April, the NFL star visited the American Dream mall in New Jersey to open his store, CardVault. He wore gray denim jeans, a black T-shirt, a darker jacket, and white sneakers for the occasion.The only accessory he added was a thick silver watch. A more striking jacket, a graphic T-shirt, or unique sneakers could have made the outfit more memorable and fun.
Suni Lee proved to be one of the best-dressed athletes of the year at the ESPY Awards.
Suni Lee at the ESPY Awards in Hollywood.
Maya Dehlin Spach/Getty Images
The Olympic gymnast wore a sleeveless, form-fitting gown crafted from tan mesh and gold leaf appliqués.It perfectly suited her wavy black hairstyle and thin gold sandals, and her delicate jewelry added another glamorous touch.
Maria Sharapova's oversize jumpsuit for the Breakthrough Prize ceremony didn't work for her.
Maria Sharapova at the Breakthrough Prize ceremony in Santa Monica.
Taylor Hill/Getty Images
Stephane Rolland designed the white ensemble Sharapova wore on the event's red carpet in April.Though its color and draped neckline looked great on the tennis player, its shapeless fit didn't work from every angle.It also might have benefited from an accessory or two, like a belt or brooch.
Venus Williams seamlessly blended her athleticism with fashion.
Venus Williams at a Christian Dior show in Paris.
Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images
She attended a Christian Dior runway show during Paris Fashion Week in a black jumpsuit with a zippered front and wide-leg pants. She also wore a matching jacket, platform heels, and diamond jewelry.The outfit struck the perfect balance between high-fashion glamour and everyday athleticwear.
Travis Kelce should've changed one thing about his red-carpet look in May.
Travis Kelce at an Amazon event in New York City.
Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images
He posed for photos on the event's black carpet while wearing a sharp gray suit. If paired with a classic button-up top, his outfit would've looked timeless.Instead, he wore it with a graphic T-shirt that didn't match in color or style. It made the rest of his upscale outfit look less impressive.
Recommended video
Sports
Fashion
Style
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account