Top 20 Best Nintendo Switch Games - August 2025 | CNET - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechGaming Nintendo
The 20 Best Nintendo Switch Games Right Now
The Nintendo Switch's best games include Pokemon, Zelda, Mario and Metroid games, alongside indie hits and multiplayer party games.
Tyler Graham Writer Tyler is a writer under CNET's home energy and utilities category. He came to CNET straight out of college, where he graduated from Seton Hall with a bachelor's degree in journalism. For the past seven months, Tyler has attended a White House press conference, participated in energy product testing at CNET's testing labs in Louisville, Kentucky, and written one of CNET Energy's top-performing news articles, on federal solar policy. Not bad for a newbie.
When Tyler's not asking questions or doing research for his next assignment, you can find him in his home state of New Jersey, kicking back with a bagel and watching an action flick or playing a new video game.
You can reach him at tgraham@cnet.com. Expertise Community solar, state solar policy, solar cost and accessibility, renewable energy, electric vehicles, video games, home internet for gaming.
See full bio
Sarah Drolet Former Writer Sarah Drolet was a writer, reporter and strategic thinker for CNET's home energy and utilities coverage. She specialized in residential solar power, solar storage solutions and whole-home backup technology. Expertise Energy, home battery backup, solar batteries, energy storage, solar inverters, solar shingles, solar power, state solar policy, renewable energy, climate issues, home electrification, smart home energy tech, deregulated energy.
See full bio
Tyler Graham
,
Sarah Drolet
Aug. 6, 2025
2:53 p.m. PT 21 min read
Nintendo
Nintendo has been one of the biggest names in gaming for decades, but for the last eight years, the Switch has held an especially strong grip on players, young and old. The standard console, Switch Lite and Switch OLED have blended incredible games you won't find anywhere else with a delightfully portable console format. Altogether, this generation of Nintendo systems sold upward of 143 million units globally, according to company financial data.After what was considered a failed launch of the Wii U in 2012, the Switch's success is a result of Nintendo's willingness to experiment with and create new experiences from a number of its pedigreed gaming series, including Super Mario, The Legend of Zelda and Pokemon. Its innovative design allows standard console play to coexist with the motion controls baked into its compact Joy-Con design. With the reveal of the Switch 2 console, the slate of Switch games has become more important than ever before. Backward compatibility will mean you're able to bring your favorite Nintendo games with you onto a new, stronger iteration of the fan-favorite hybrid console. Some of the best Switch games will even be getting free Switch 2 updates or paid Switch 2 edition upgrades.If you're looking for the right game for you ahead of a new console release, CNET curated this list of the best Nintendo Switch games you can buy right now.Best Nintendo Switch Games - August 2025
Nintendo
The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom
In early 2017, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild fundamentally changed the Zelda franchise formula. I'd dabbled in past entries, but Breath of the Wild's expansive open world called to me in a way that no other Zelda game did, featuring puzzles with multiple solutions and encouraging novel approaches to combat encounters. Then Tears of the Kingdom came along in May of 2023 and made Breath of the Wild feel immediately obsolete. The design choices in this game advance everything that made its predecessor special. Among several new ways to interact with the world, the Ultrahand power took over the internet for a hot minute after Tears of the Kingdom dropped, and that's for good reason -- it's not often that someone gets to build a bomber jet in a completely unmodded fantasy RPG.Despite inheriting much of the same map from Breath of the Wild, Tears of the Kingdom entertainingly remixes the terrain as floating islands dominate the horizon and a new underworld called the Depths add new locations for players to explore. Figuring out how to handle the vertical slices of content can be a headache, and the new powers can be unwieldy, but as soon as you make it over those small barriers to entry, you'll revel in the total player freedom and expansive world in Tears of the Kingdom.Release date: May 12, 2023Genre: Open world sandbox adventure with survival elementsDeveloper: NintendoSwitch 2 features: Paid upgrade pack to improve graphical fidelity and integrate Zelda Notes- Tyler Graham
$57 at Amazon
$70 at Target
Nintendo
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe
Even if you've never owned a Nintendo console, you've still probably played Mario Kart at some point in your life. It's practically the go-to party game, as pretty much anyone can pick up a controller and jump in. Mario Kart 8 actually originates from the Wii U era, but the game was ported to the Switch in April 2017, with "Deluxe" attached to the title and several content expansions released. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe is one of my favorite entries in the Mario Kart series purely for its selection of 48 different tracks you can play, which is doubled to 96 tracks with added DLC. These extrea tracks come from all over the place, including remastered retro tracks from older Mario Kart titles and some tracks from Mario Kart Tour on mobile. I also particularly like the accessibility options that Mario Kart 8 has, especially a smart-steering feature that you can toggle on or off that functions as an assisted steering option keeping your kart from tipping over the edge of the track. This makes it so that pretty much anybody can have a good time racing, ensuring I can finally play Mario Kart with my parents and not have to worry about them constantly falling off the track while we have a good old-fashioned family race.Release date: April 28, 2017Genre: High-octane party gameDeveloper: Nintendo- Sarah Drolet
$50 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
It's hard to believe the original Super Smash Bros. that came out in 1999 for the Nintendo 64 only featured 12 playable characters. That might be a solid roster for another fighting game, but it's almost laughable compared to Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, which launched in December 2018 with a roster of 76 fighters (expanded to 86 with post-launch DLC).Other games have more fighters than Ultimate (looking at you, Dragon Ball Sparking Zero), but none of them pull from such a diverse range of heavy-hitting gaming franchises. Smash has become ubiquitous with pulling in gaming legends, and it's really no surprise why that is: this is a game where you can choose to play as Mario, Sonic, Cloud Strife, Pac Man or Sora. I can annoyingly pester opponents from across the map with Solid Snake's missile launcher in one match and then do the same thing with Richter Belmont's axes and holy water during the next one.Ultimate isn't a phoned-in IP parade, either. It's a game that proves that Smash Bros. is still the premier platform fighter, with fast-paced movement, frame-perfect parries and killer combos defining high-level gameplay. You don't have to be super skilled to have fun, either -- it's a fantastic party game to boot up with friends. Just turn on item drops or open the World of Light story mode and everyone will have a good time.Release date: Dec. 7, 2018Genre: Crossover platform fighterDeveloper: Nintendo, Masahiro Sakurai, Sora, Bandai Namco Studios- Tyler Graham
$50 at Amazon
$49 at Walmart
$60 at Best Buy
Nintendo
Splatoon 3
Released in September of 2022, Splatoon 3 is the latest entry in Nintendo's family-friendly third-person shooter franchise. You're a kid, you're a squid and it's up to you to ink the majority of the multiplayer battle arena to win the match.Splatoon's third entry includes more customization than ever before, featuring new Inkling and Octoling cosmetics that change in-game abilities and even more weapons. It's a strange sort of power fantasy to ride around blasting globs of ink out of the turrets of the Crab Tank or to jet into the opposing team on the toothy Reefslider, but it's a blast nonetheless.If you don't have an internet connection (or a subscription to Nintendo Switch Online), there's still a single-player campaign for you to play. It's one that will still let you mess around with all of the chaotic weapons from multiplayer game modes as you embark on a covert mission to prevent the final mammals on Earth from destroying all aquatic life.There aren't many shooters on the Switch, but Splatoon 3 is an exception that combines zany, chaotic movement and inventive weaponry with some seriously satisfying gunplay.Release date: Sept. 9, 2022Genre: Family-friendly third-person shooterDeveloper: Nintendo- Tyler Graham
$50 at Walmart
$60 at Best Buy
Concerned Ape
Stardew Valley
If you like farming simulators or are simply just looking for a new cozy game filled with pleasant tasks, you have to give Stardew Valley, first released in February of 2016, a try. It's kind of like playing a Harvest Moon or Story of Seasons game but with much more to do and an adorable retro art style. The farmland you start with is inherited from your character's grandfather, which sounds awfully nice of him if it weren't for the trees, boulders and weeds everywhere. It's up to you to clear everything out and build up your own farming empire. This game will have you running around all over the place, making it something of a cozy time management puzzle -- there's always something to do. Between tending to your crops and animals, trips to the store and the mines, fishing, foraging and visiting NPCs, you'll have a pretty packed schedule. The good news is that you can go at your own pace working through the four seasons per in-game year. There technically isn't an end to Stardew Valley, but there are certain crops that you'll want to make sure get grown in certain seasons. There are also some robust crafting features to create tools and machines to automate farm chores (I don't like watering crops, so I'll craft an army of sprinklers) and process crops into more profitable goods. (I fill my sheds with kegs and preserve jars to process fruits into wines and jellies.) In short, Stardew Valley is a great game to build your own little farming world, as busy as you want to make it.Release date: Feb. 26, 2016Genre: Harvest Moon-like farming simDeveloper: ConcernedApe- Sarah Drolet
$34 at Amazon
Nintendo
Animal Crossing: New Horizons
The Animal Crossing franchise was a childhood staple, and I have fond memories of rushing off the school bus to grab my Nintendo DS and see what my Animal Crossing Wild World villagers were up to. Animal Crossing: New Horizons, Nintendo's most recent Animal Crossing game, brings that childhood nostalgia back full force and is easily the best in the series. New Horizons couldn't have launched at a better time. The game came out in March 2020, during a time when Covid was at its peak. Like many others, I was stuck inside nearly around the clock, and New Horizons provided a cozy way to escape from the global chaos of pandemic lockdowns. You start your game on a deserted island with nothing but a tent, the clothes on your back and a few friendly neighbors (along with a Nook-sized debt to pay off). As you play, you'll invite more NPCs to live on the island, gather materials to construct new buildings and decorate things however you want. Much like older Animal Crossing titles, you'll still be fishing, catching bugs and digging up fossils. New Horizons spices things up by giving you more freedom than ever before to perfect your little island world. This is the only Animal Crossing game that lets you place furniture and objects outside and even (eventually) shape your island's rivers and cliffs to be the way you want. It's been a few years since its peak, New Horizons is still one of the best cozy games on the Switch with an active community (and subreddit) that would still be delighted to visit your digital paradise.Release date: March 20, 2020Genre: Village building cozy gameDeveloper: Nintendo- Sarah Drolet
$50 at Amazon
$52 at Walmart
$60 at Best Buy
Nintendo
Super Mario Bros. Wonder
Nintendo has been rehashing some of the same gimmicks in its Super Mario Bros. games for years, which is fine when they're some of the best platformers, but the repetition gets stale after a while. Super Mario Bros. Wonder, released in October 2023, freshens up the formula and is easily the most fun I've had with a Mario game in a long time. It's a classic 2D Mario platformer that's brimming with creativity.Super Mario Bros. Wonder's secret ingredient is transformation. Each level contains what's called a wonder flower, and touching the wonder flower transforms the entire level in a way that you probably aren't expecting. The ground may start to move, enemies might burst out into song or you might even start floating until you reach outer space. Expect a new surprise at every level, especially if you're going in blind (which is what I recommend.)I also love the way the game looks, as the colors in Mario Wonder really pop. The color palette for each level feels bright and vibrant, but also darker when it needs to be, like during Bowser or Boo levels. The new animations and voice work for Mario and friends are a welcome addition as well. Like the best Mario games, Wonder executes its plethora of fun ideas so well that players will find joy around every corner.Release date: Oct. 20, 2023Genre: Co-op 2D platformerDeveloper: Nintendo- Sarah Drolet
$54 at Amazon
Nintendo
Super Mario Odyssey
As the first 3D Mario built for the Switch, Super Mario Odyssey debuted in October 2017 to immense acclaim, with a lot of praise for the new enemy-controlling mechanic courtesy of the Italian plumber's new pal Cappy. Despite initial doubts that the game's central mechanic of using a hat to possess different enemies would be too gimmicky, Super Mario Odyssey stands out as one of the 3D Mario all-time greats.As expected for a Mario game, there's a wealth of worlds to enjoy, which are opened up in new ways when Mario possesses different enemies. One of Odyssey's big strengths is how satisfying it feels to move around each colorful locale. Movement mainstays such as Mario's triple and backward crouch jump return, but now Mario can dive onto Cappy for a massive boost in the air, too. The hat also allows the player to rampage around as a T. rex, surge through a powerline and more, breaking up some of the more intensive platforming sections.Completionists have a lot to chew on as there's also a wealth of content to enjoy, as there are 999 so-called Power Moons to hunt down across the entire game -- some you need to progress to new areas, but most are for the pleasure of finding. Some of these are definitely filler content (119 of these moons are just bought outright with coins), but true collectors will have their hands full with Odyssey for a long time. No matter how much you play, Super Mario Odyssey is not only one of the best platformers on the Switch -- it's one of the best Mario games ever made.Release date: Oct. 27, 2017Genre: 3D platforming collectathonDeveloper: NintendoSwitch 2 features: Free update to improve playability on the Switch 2.- Tyler Graham
$48 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
$49 at Best Buy
Thunder Lotus Games
Spiritfarer
If you're interested in adding a few indie games to your lineup, Spiritfarer, released in August 2020, should be at the top of your list. As the developers describe it, the game is "a cozy management game about dying." You play as the new titular Spritfarer, Stella, in a world where spirits are stuck between the living world and what lies beyond, like a purgatory of sorts. It's Stella's job to fulfill spirits' last requests; when they're ready, you'll take them to the other side. These spirits can be a bit needy at times with onerous requests, but thankfully, you'll have a boat to house them on -- and form your own little post-life community. Your boat is almost like a cruise ship for the dead with you as its captain. As you play, you'll make port at various islands and collect resources to build new homes and specialty rooms for the residents of your ship. You might even welcome a new spirit or two aboard your ship when you dock at a new area. Spiritfarer breaks up the afterlife catharsis missions with some casual 2D platforming elements, which keeps things fresh and interesting. Just make sure you're ready for more than a few tearful goodbyes before playing -- don't be surprised if, like me, this game gets you sobbing.Release date: Aug. 18, 2020Genre: Cozy resource management simDeveloper: Thunder Lotus Games- Sarah Drolet
See at Amazon
Nintendo
Xenoblade Chronicles 3
If you're a fan of the Xenoblade games, then you'll be happy to know that Xenoblade Chronicles 3 is one of the best in the series. If you've never played a Xenoblade Chronicles game before but are looking for a narrative-driven JRPG that takes over 60 hours to beat (or double that for completionists), then you'll likely enjoy this game too, even if you don't know anything about the previous games. Don't worry, Xenoblade veterans, you'll enjoy some fun easter eggs and nods to the previous titles.Xenoblade Chronicles 3 builds on its predecessors with a large open world to explore, refined action-RPG combat mechanics and one of the most compelling narratives I've ever experienced in a JRPG. In a world where a person's life source is literally fueled by taking the lives of others, the game's story takes players through heavier topics like what it really means to be alive, the morality of killing and what happens after death -- suitably weighty and existential for a JRPG. The story is definitely better when experienced blind, so try and avoid spoilers if you can.Release date: July 29, 2022Genre: Action-adventure JRPGDeveloper: Monolith Soft- Sarah Drolet
$59 at Amazon
$58 at Walmart
Nintendo
Metroid Prime Remastered
It's always nice to see Nintendo giving some love to its older franchises, especially those that haven't had a new entry in over a decade. If you're a 3D Metroid fan, picking up Metroid Prime Remastered is a must. The game is a faithful remaster of the original Metroid Prime which originally came out on the GameCube in 2002, bringing the groundbreaking sci-fi adventure shooter on the go in HD. The remaster updates graphics and sound design for the Switch, as well as a remarkable four control modes to choose from: a classic version replicating the original GameCube setup (move with the left stick and hold ZR to look around with the same stick), a dual stick version replicating how most FPS games control today, a Pointer mode that replicates the Wii-and-nunchuck setup to aim with motion controls and a Hybrid that combines classic and motion controls. You're spoiled for choice on how you want to play through the game.Most importantly, Metroid Prime itself is a great example of how to transition a treasured 2D game into a 3D space as the first in the series to be designed in three dimensions. The game has a strong emphasis on exploration as you traverse diverse biomes and scan every bit of the world as you face off against various alien creatures. And while I wouldn't say this is a combat-focused game, there are definitely some gunplay and retro shooter elements in here to enjoy that, combined with an all-time score and great bosses, make for a gem of an older game well-polished for today's gamers.Release date: Feb. 8, 2023Genre: Sci-fi first-person shooterDeveloper: Retro Studios, Nintendo- Sarah Drolet
$40 at Amazon
$40 at Best Buy
$40 at Target
Nintendo
Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury
Super Mario 3D World is another game that made its way to the Switch from the Wii U. The main gimmick of the game is in the title: it's a 3D Mario platformer, but it shares beloved elements from its 2D Mario counterparts. You'll still be racing to the flagpole and the levels are still timed, but they're all set in a 3D space. Despite the clock ticking down as you play, there are still plenty of areas to explore and challenge items to collect, including three green stars to collect on each level that you'll need to progress through the game. Along with the re-released Mario 3D World, you'll also get to play Bowser's Fury, a standalone 3D Mario platformer that's exclusive to the Switch. I personally had more fun with Bowser's Fury, which plays more like Super Mario Odyssey with its large open areas full of collectible cat shines. The game itself is pretty short and there are only 100 shines to collect, but it's still tons of fun and feels close enough to an open-world Mario game.Release date: Feb. 12, 2021Genre: Linear 3D platformerDeveloper: NintendoSwitch 2 features: Free update to improve playability on the Switch 2- Sarah Drolet
$53 at Amazon
$53 at Walmart
$60 at Best Buy
Monstars/Resonair/Screenshot by CNET
Tetris Effect: Connected
The aptly named Tetris Effect is the dreamiest iteration of the classic arcade puzzler that I've ever played.This game isn't about being the quickest line cruncher, even though challenge modes and in-game achievements will certainly test the skills of any hardcore Tetris player. Instead, Tetris Effect is a sensory feast -- each level is a themed lightshow (depicting cultural celebrations, natural wildlife and more) with pulsing music to match.There's nothing more satisfying than dropping blocks into place and experiencing the elements of the board flowing in time to your cleared lines. By the time you're making back-to-back Tetrises, the whir of the audiovisual elements make the game feel as though it's coming to life under your control.If calming singleplayer action won't cut it for you, Tetris Effect: Connected adds cooperative and versus multiplayer modes, where teams of three players duke it out with a block-dropping computer -- or another person. Whether you want to relax and enjoy the lights and sounds or ramp up the gameplay speed, Tetris Effect has a game mode tailored to your interests.Release Date: Nov. 10, 2020Genre: Classic arcade puzzler with heavy emphasis on audiovisual flowDeveloper: Monstars, Resonair- Tyler Graham
See at Nintendo
Nintendo
Kirby and the Forgotten Land
As one of the tough pink puff's rare forays away from Planet Popstar, Kirby and the Forgotten Land stands out as a fantastic platformer that also has an incredibly distinct visual identity compared to the rest of the series. Gone are the pleasant, bucolic Green Greens and the Float Islands; instead, the titular Forgotten Land is a modern world disconcertingly similar to ours, although advanced in its decay. I felt a strange thrill plodding Kirby through concrete jungles, dead malls and sunken construction sites -- places the pink puffball doesn't "fit in," which left me wanting to explore even more of this world.The actual gameplay is standard fare for a mainline Kirby game, though that isn't a ding against it. The platforming is entertaining, with additional obstacles and enemies placed about to account for our hero's ability to float over most gaps. Kirby's copy abilities also return -- my favorite was the Ranger ability, which allows our puffball to tote around an adorably oversized blunderbuss -- and unlocking upgrades for them in the endgame helps balance the odds in some surprisingly difficult boss fights.If you're a massive Kirby fan, fascinated by liminal spaces like the ones featured in the game or just enjoy a fun, family-friendly platformer, Kirby and the Forgotten Land is the perfect match for you.Release date: March 25, 2022Genre: Atmospheric 3D platformerDeveloper: HAL LaboratorySwitch 2 features: Paid upgrade pack that includes a brand-new set of levels and additional abilities for Kirby- Tyler Graham
$53 at Amazon
$51 at Walmart
$56 at Best Buy
Nintendo/GameFreak
Pokemon Legends: Arceus
I first played Pokemon when Diamond and Pearl came out and they still hold a special place in my heart, but the reimagined generation four games, Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, were middling (and fairly disappointing) Switch remakes of their original namesakes. Pokemon Legends: Arceus, on the other hand, was the truly impressive return to Sinnoh I had been waiting for.Delving into the Hisui region lets players peek into a formative early time period we've never been able to experience before, where Pokemon are a very real and largely untamed threat. This game was the first time where I was personally attacked by a Pokemon, and it was thrilling. I learned to avoid Alpha Pokemon, steer clear of prowling Ursalunas and avoid antagonizing Kleavors. Legends: Arceus finally created a world where Pokemon ecosystems feel alive.Long-term players will have a lot to do outside of completing the Pokedex, with activities ranging from hunting for super rare "shiny" versions of their favorite pocket monsters to capturing a fragment of the Pokemon god of creation. This is the only Pokemon game where you can capture this particular titular deity without hacking in a special item -- if you're a hardcore fan, you won't want to miss the chance to adventure alongside Arceus.Release date: Jan. 28, 2022Genre: Open-world monster tamerDeveloper: Game Freak- Tyler Graham
$54 at Amazon
Nintendo
The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom
Released in September 2024, The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom finally gave players the chance to do something they hadn't been able to since the first time they journeyed through Hyrule: adventure as Zelda herself. As it turns out, the princess' first solo outing -- where the tables are turned and she has to save the legendary swordsman, Link -- is an impressive action puzzler.Zelda is able to take on the form of a sword fighter in order to hack and slash her way through enemies, but that isn't the only way Echoes of Wisdom encourages players to engage in combat. Instead, the new Tri Rod tool allows Zelda to make echoes of enemies and objects in order to defeat foes and solve problems, combining the creativity of Breath of the Wild and Tears of the Kingdom with more old-school Legend of Zelda dungeon design.In that sense, Echoes of Wisdom is a love letter to longtime fans of the series. New mechanics might open dozens of solutions to the game's puzzles, but this is a game interested in returning to the basics of the franchise's formula -- tightly crafted dungeon crawling fun.Release date: Sept. 26, 2024Genre: Puzzling dungeon crawler adventureDeveloper: Grezzo, NintendoSwitch 2 features: Free update to improve playability on the Switch 2- Tyler Graham
$49 at Amazon
Nintendo
Super Mario Party Jamboree
The newest entry into the Mario Party franchise aims to keep your party entertained indefinitely by making sure you never run out of novel diversions. Super Mario Party Jamboree, released in October 2024, features seven playable boards along with more playable characters and minigames (a whopping 112, including both new and fan-favorite romps) than any previous game in the series.If the average game of Mario Party runs a little too long for your tastes, new Pro Rules allow you to tweak the length of player turns and keep the game moving along so you're never out of the action for long. And you're not locked out of Jamboree if you're playing alone: In addition to a strong single player campaign, the game allows you to matchmake with other players if you have a Nintendo Switch Online subscription.Super Mario Party Jamboree is perhaps the most substantive Mario Party game ever released. There's a lot of content to unlock, both on and off the game boards, which will keep completionists and their friends blasting through the game's multitude of minigames for hours.Release date: Oct. 17, 2024Genre: Multiplayer minigame packDeveloper: NintendoSwitch 2 features: Paid upgrade pack that will add new base game minigames, as well as the new Jamboree TV mode, which includes special minigames that utilize the Switch 2 Joy-Cons and camera peripheral- Tyler Graham
$52 at Amazon
Nintendo
Metroid Dread
Most of Samus Aran's modern (read: Wii-era) bounty hunting escapades are found in the 3D first-person Metroid Prime shooters, but Metroid Dread takes the heroine back to her roots in a new side-scrolling adventure. The game is a throwback to classic Metroid design, where players need to find suit upgrades to improve their battle capabilities and unlock new parts of the map. Dread allows players to perform melee attacks and aim freely across the screen, creating a more fluid combat system.Metroid Dread also implements design decisions from an unlikely genre: survival horror. Invulnerable robotic stalkers, EMMIs, hunt Samus through levels -- players will need to hide or activate a new camouflage ability until they find a weapon powerful enough to destroy these foes. This twist on the formula ratchets up the tension and makes Metroid Dread feel like an evolution of its predecessors.Release date: Oct. 8, 2021Genre: Classic 2D maze action-adventureDeveloper: Nintendo- Tyler Graham
$59 at Amazon
Nintendo
Pikmin 4
Captain Olimar is stranded again, and it's up to the newest member of the Rescue Corps to save him in Pikmin 4. Players command an army of adorable half-plant, half-animal creatures called Pikmin to complete different tasks that bring them closer to their goal. All of the previous specialized Pikmin return, while two new types of the obedient followers add depth to the game. The Glow Pikmin in particular help defend the player character in the new Night Expeditions tower defense game mode.A more classical Pikmin experience is available in the Olimar's Shipwreck Tale mode, where players once again step into the shoes of the steadfast space captain. Olimar must collect all 30 pieces of his ship before his life support runs out, using yellow, blue and red Pikmin to overcome a new set of obstacles. Pikmin 4 puts a new spin on a familiar world, creating an adventure that feels alien once again.Release date: July 21, 2023Genre: Action-adventure puzzler featuring specialized creature companionsDeveloper: Nintendo- Tyler Graham
$61 at Amazon
Nintendo
Super Mario Maker 2
Nintendo's first Super Mario Maker game made 2D Mario level design quick and easy for any audience. The sequel keeps all the fundamentals intact while adding more content: There are new building blocks, new themes and this time around there's a story mode for solo play. Super Mario 3D World elements were added, retooled in a new 2.5D visual overhaul. Players are also able to increase the level height limit to make vertical levels, as well as invite a co-op partner to build together.If you love classic Mario gameplay but you aren't interested in creating your own levels, don't write off Super Mario Maker 2 just yet. The game features two- to four-player cooperative play and competitive races on community levels. If you're fed up after playing one too many kaizo levels in a row, there's also a singleplayer Story Mode with more than 100 courses lovingly crafted by Nintendo that'll better suit the tastes of casual Mario fans.Release date: June 28, 2019Genre: Hybrid level builder and platformer gameplay hubDeveloper: Nintendo- Tyler Graham
$48 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
$60 at Best Buy
Nintendo Switch game FAQs
What Nintendo Switch games are coming out?
The Switch still has a respectable slate of games from many of Nintendo's biggest series slated for release in 2025, including Metroid Prime 4: Beyond, Donkey Kong Country Returns HD and Pokemon Legends: Z-A. There are also major third-party releases coming in 2025, including Tales of the Shire: A Lord of the Rings Game.
What was the bestselling Nintendo Switch game in 2024?
According to Nintendo quarterly business reports (PDF), the bestselling Nintendo Switch game in 2024 was Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door.
What is the best selling Nintendo Switch game of all time?
The bestselling Switch game over the console's lifetime is Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. Since it was released in April of 2017, the game has sold close to 63 million copies worldwide.
What is the best Nintendo Switch game?
Picking out the best Nintendo Switch game is subjective and answers will vary according to each gamer's preferences. The authors of this article, however, voted that The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom was the best game on the Switch overall. The game is jam-packed with content, allowing players to explore two new layers of Hyrule, create their own weapons and vehicles and discover more secrets than ever before as they embark on their quest to save Princess Zelda from the reawakened Ganondorf.
Recent updates to the listJune 2025: Removed Tetris 99. Added Tetris Effect: Connected.April 2025: Added Metroid Dread, Pikmin 4 and Super Mario Maker 2. We also began including a list of Switch 2 features on relevant entries so you can prepare for Nintendo's next generation console.November 2024: Added The Legend of Zelda: Echoes of Wisdom, Super Mario Party JamboreeHow we determined CNET's best Nintendo Switch gamesWhen creating this list of best Nintendo Switch games, we factored in how unique and enjoyable these games are for most players -- we evaluated criteria including graphical quality, innovative gameplay mechanics and compelling narratives. The picks we made cover a variety of genres from fantasy to retro platformers to shooters to racing games, and while we favored console-exclusive games you won't find on Xbox, PlayStation or PC we also included some can't-miss games that appear on multiple platforms. If you're looking for help choosing your next game, CNET's top Switch list is a good place to start narrowing your choices.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.