Target Circle 360™ : Targetskip to main contentskip to footerTarget Circle™Target Circle™ CardTarget Circle 360™Registry & Wish ListWeekly AdFind StoresCategoriesDealsNew & featuredPickup & deliverysearchTarget Circle 360™TargetTarget Circle™Target Circle 360™Members can save over $300/year1
with same-day delivery2, free shipping3, monthly freebies & more.NEW! Get same-day delivery from Target & other stores — now without price markups*.
*excl. select alcohol retailers & itemsAnd the benefits don’t stop there…Early access to big sales
Plus, be the first to shop brand collabs & score
members-only items.Monthly freebies
Choose from a new selection of gifts and exclusive discounts on the first of every month.Free 2-day shipping
Enjoy free, fast shipping on hundreds of thousands of items.3No-rush returns
Get an extra 30 days to return your items.4Get a monthly freebie, on us!Choose from gifts & exclusive discounts on the first of every month when you join Valid for annual and monthly
members with a
membership. Trials excluded.Sign up is simpleSave even more on a membership holders$50 off
Annual membership (only
$49/year)5
college students650percent off
Monthly membership
(only $4.99/mo.)govt. assistance recipients750percent off
Monthly membership
(only $4.99/mo.)Gift a one-year membership** for Share the joy of free, fast shipping3, unlimited same-day delivery on orders over $35 & more.
**Terms & conditions apply.Explore The free & easy way to get the most deals, personalized bonuses, partner perks & more.Frequently Asked Questions
1 Potential $300 savings based on two Same-day Delivery orders per month ($9.99 delivery fee each) plus annual Shipt membership ($99 per year). Actual savings will vary and depend upon shopping behavior.
2
Applies to orders over $35.
3 Free 2-day shipping: When you use your Target Circle™ Card (debit, credit, and reloadable) for your Target.com purchases or are a Target Circle 360™ member, you receive free standard shipping on most items and free 2-day shipping on eligible items. Hundreds of thousands of items qualify for 2-day shipping. Item eligibility and assortment vary by market and are determined by the location of the item and the destination ZIP code. If an item is eligible for 2-day shipping, it’ll be noted on the product detail page and on the cart & check out page. Place your order by the order cutoff time to receive 2-day shipping on select items to select ZIP codes. Refer to the product detail page for estimated delivery dates. Visit Target.com/2dayshipping for general delivery guidelines.
*
Offer valid for Target Circle 360 members only. Now through December 2026. Pricing is generally based on information from retailers, including alcohol pricing. "No Markups" means product prices are generally the same as in-store, except alcohol. Alcohol prices, and prices on non-alcohol items where alcohol is predominantly sold, are generally not the same as in-store. Pricing and availability is subject to change without notice, delays, data limitations, adjustments, and/or errors. In-store deals may not apply.
4
Extended returns program rules: When you make purchases with your Target Circle Card (debit, credit, reloadable) at Target stores or Target.com or are a Target Circle 360™ member, you will receive 30 additional days to return the purchases beyond the standard return policy applicable to each of the purchased items. Target reserves the right to discontinue or alter the terms of this program at any time. Extended returns do not apply to the following: Target Optical purchases; non-returnable items; contract mobile phones; or online purchases of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) eligible items using Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT), or both EBT and a Target Circle Card for payment.
5
Subject to the terms and conditions of the membership. $99 annual membership fee discounted to $49 when you have a Target Circle Card (credit, debit and reloadable) saved to your Target account. Cannot be applied to previous purchases or combined with other promotions.
6
Subject to the terms and conditions of the subscription. $10.99 monthly subscription fee discounted to $4.99 per month when your Target account includes verified college student status. If college student status cannot be verified, the standard monthly subscription fee will be charged. Cannot be applied to previous purchases or combined with other promotions.
7
Subject to the terms and conditions of the subscription. $10.99 monthly subscription fee discounted to $4.99 per month when your Target account includes verified Government Assistance status. If Government Assistance status cannot be verified, the standard monthly subscription fee will be charged. Cannot be applied to previous purchases or combined with other promotions.
Get top deals, latest trends, and more.Email addressSign upPrivacy policyFooter