This must-have accessory from Anker is now down to its lowest price ever
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This must-have accessory from Anker is now down to its lowest price ever
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 6, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Link copied to clipboard
Source: Anker
Source: Anker
Anker 555 USB-C Hub (8-in-1)
$36
$50
Save $14
The Anker 555 is a good value dock, opening up access to an HDMI port, USB-C and two USB-A data ports, Ethernet, and a microSD and SD card reader.
$36 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
This is one of those accessories that you can't be without once you start carrying it around. If you've ever needed more ports on your laptop, phone, tablet, or PC gaming handheld — this Anker USB-C hub is going to be the perfect choice thanks to its compact size and expanded connectivity. While it has a retail price of $50, it can now be had for less, as it drops to just $36 for a limited time.
A great way to connect, even on the go
Source: Anker
The most important part of any USB hub is the ports that are available. This Anker 555 comes with eight ports total, with two USB-C, HDMI, Ethernet, SD and microSD card slots, and two USB-A ports. Now, some of these ports you can already find on some of your most popular devices, but it doesn't hurt to have a few extra, considering that you can use all of them simultaneously if you want.
The great part about this USB-C hub is that you get passthrough power. So, just connect your USB-C power cable to this device, and you can use the built-in cable to power your device. The USB-C hub will support output up to 85W, so you'll want to use a 100W+ charger in order to get the best possible use from it. Anker also throws in an 18-month warranty on the hub, just in case you might experience some issues. You also get excellent compatibility too, with support for Windows, macOS, and ChromeOS. So if this sounds like something you need, grab it now for its discounted price.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Anker
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
5 media center ideas to turn your Raspberry Pi into a home theater hub
Sep 9, 2025
I created legendary magic items for D&D 5e using AI, and the results were terrifying
Sep 9, 2025
Apple proves that thin phone enthusiasts don't have to sacrifice durability for their devices
Sep 10, 2025
5 reasons why Hell is Us deserves to be a Game of the Year candidate
More from our brands
I Went All-In on USB-C and It Changed My Life
If you don't have a USB-C hub for your phone, you're missing out
This $8 adapter is all it takes to make USB sticks useful in the iPhone age
Ugreen Uno Charger 100W Review: All the Fast Charging You Need in a Small Package
This Anker power strip charges six devices and just hit its lowest price for Prime members
Anker 140W Charger Review: A Perfect Companion for All Your USB-C Devices
This Anker Laptop Power Bank and Charger Are a Power Couple for Gamers
Today's best deals
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
6 hours ago
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
17 hours ago
This niche Steam title with 93% positive reviews is free to keep, but only if you're very quick
1 day ago
See More
Trending Now
6 silent PC hacks that don't hurt your performance
Wi-Fi 7 is exciting, but here's why you shouldn't buy a new router (yet)
Windows 11 version 25H2 is almost here — and it's so boring it almost becomes interesting
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.