I finally found a seamless way to bring NotebookLM insights into Obsidian
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I finally found a seamless way to bring NotebookLM insights into Obsidian
By
Dhruv Bhutani
Published Sep 1, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
NotebookLM is one of my favorite learning tools. This Google Gemini-powered app is a godsend for helping me generate insights, summaries, and analysis from sources as diverse as online research papers, YouTube videos, and PDFs that I've fed into it. However, as powerful as it is, there's a gap between the research analysis provided by NotebookLM and my personal knowledge management tool of choice, Obsidian. You see, that's where I draft all my ideas, build outlines, gather research on topics that interest me, and string together all those disparate pieces of information. However, copying over insights from NotebookLM to Obsidian is anything but easy. But, recently, I discovered a really interesting way to bridge that gap using a small Chrome extension called, simply, NotebookLM to LaTeX & MD. That's as self-explanatory as it gets. Here's how it works, and why it's been so important to my workflow.
Exporting notes with a single click
Bridging the gap between NotebookLM and Obsidian
The NotebookLM to LaTeX & MD extension is a solo developer's project to add an export option directly into NotebookLM. Once installed, the extension places a download button right within the app, or you can tap the extension to trigger the export setting. After running a query or pulling insights from your research sources, the extension lets you click and download the output either as a Markdown or a LaTeX file. Markdown is the language that Obsidian understands natively, so the transition from one app to the next becomes almost instant. You don't need to copy, paste, or reformat. Just drop the file into your Obsidian vault, and it'll preserve all the formatting, including headers, and integrate into your graph. From there, you can add links, tags, and any personal annotations to make it truly your own. As an added benefit, the extension also offers LaTeX export as an option, which is a major bonus if you're writing academic papers or technical documentation. All said and done, the extension has gone a long way towards unifying NotebookLM and Obsidian for my use.
How I use the extension
Turning research into connected notes
The real value of the extension shows up once you actively start integrating it into your knowledge management process. For example, I've been on a history binge recently and added a range of sources, including blog posts and research papers, to NotebookLM and asked it to generate insights and theme-based connections. These results were excellent, but also locked into NotebookLM. I wanted to graph it and draw connections between related sources of information and my own offline sources. Previously, I would have copied this information and pasted it piecemeal into my Obsidian vault. But this extension allowed me to export my notes from the entire session into Markdown. I just moved the folder into Obsidian, and it showed right up. Easy as that. From full-fledged research notes to bullet-point insights, bringing NotebookLM and Obsidian into a single workflow has been a game-changer for learning. Elsewhere, if you are a student juggling sources for a thesis, exporting directly to LaTeX means you can bring NotebookLM summaries into your academic writing workflow without having to dive into extra formatting. It's not a feature I've tried much, but it's excellent for creating research documentation. Another scenario where I can see the feature coming in handy is collaborative research. If you are working with a team and rely on Markdown for shared documentation to ensure consistent formatting across the board, you can use NotebookLM to process large volumes of research material and then export the highlights as files that everyone has access to. Finally, privacy and ownership are tangential benefits. The extension lets you pull out your notes and insights as markdown files that live entirely on your computer, NAS, or cloud storage. If you were to stop using NotebookLM or accidentally delete a notebook, having access to the markdown files would mean that you'd still have access to that research data.
A simple hack that makes NotebookLM and Obsidian work together seamlessly
Look, I'd like a more deeply integrated solution to combine cloud-based LLMs with my Obsidian use, but that's fundamentally opposed to the idea of how the offline-first Obsidian works. As it stands, we're getting a bit of a hack to bridge the gap between the two platforms. But even in its limited scope, the extension's focused, functional approach is all it takes to bring your NotebookLM notes into Obsidian's extensive personal knowledge management. The extension is free and requires practically no setup. Nor does it need access to your Google account. While I'd spent more time earlier copying and pasting data and formatting it to adhere to the schema I prefer, the extension has made that entire process a cinch. All it takes is a button to download that information and paste it straight into Obsidian. And it's made all the difference in ensuring that the two platforms work as seamlessly as possible.
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Mahmood
Mahmood
Mahmood
#FK300432
Member since 2024-10-28
0
Threads
1
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Greetings and sincere thanks for sharing your valuable experience. Your integration of NotebookLM and Obsidian offers a smart and efficient workflow—especially the ability to export outputs in Markdown format, then copying and pasting them directly into Google Docs for further editing is very important in edit and saving your time.As a university researcher, I find this a highly practical and time-saving hack. Truly appreciated!
2025-09-02 06:06:02
Upvote
2
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
4 Cheap components you'll regret in your next PC build
7 days ago
I created legendary magic items for D&D 5e using AI, and the results were terrifying
Sep 9, 2025
NotebookLM’s huge update comes with a surprising downgrade
6 days ago
You, too, can build this awesome foam dart shooting gallery with an ESP32
Today's best deals
Take $600 off this beastly mini PC with 96GB of RAM that's built to handle LLMs
4 hours ago
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
10 hours ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
16 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Indiana Jones and the Great Circle: The Order of Giants DLC is a minor distraction with a shallow payoff
The hidden costs of self-hosting that I regret finding out the hard way
Star Wars games don't need to be in the High Republic because they can explore these eras instead
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.