As Trump criticizes Smithsonian, 'citizen historians' document exhibits : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
As Trump criticizes Smithsonian, 'citizen historians' document exhibits Historians and citizens who say they are concerned about the Trump administration's pressure on the Smithsonian are working to document exhibits, as they exist today, throughout the museum network.
History
Wary of changes under Trump, 'citizen historians' are documenting the Smithsonian
September 22, 20255:01 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
Elizabeth Blair
Volunteer 'citizen historians' are trying to safeguard the Smithsonian
Listen
·
3:46
3:46
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5517973/nx-s1-9461757" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Shelley Smith, a retired public health professional, is one of hundreds of volunteers taking part in an effort to document wall text, objects and images at the Smithsonian.
Elizabeth Blair/NPR
hide caption
toggle caption
Elizabeth Blair/NPR
Early in his second term, President Trump issued an executive order that claimed the Smithsonian Institution promotes "narratives that portray American and Western values as inherently harmful and oppressive." And in mid-August, Trump administration officials sent Smithsonian Secretary Lonnie G. Bunch III a letter requiring a "comprehensive internal review" of eight Smithsonian museums including American History, American Art Museum, Natural History and Air & Space. Now, historians and citizens concerned about the Trump administration's approach to, and involvement in, the Smithsonian have come together to document how the museums look today. Their goal is to produce a record before any changes that might be made.
Sponsor Message
I'm a historian of China, and so I'm really used to when governments are stepping in trying to whitewash history and censor history. ... It really upset me to see this being threatened in the United States as well.
Georgetown University professor Jim Millward
Two historians in particular put out the call for help. One, Georgetown University professor Jim Millward, said the Trump administration's pressure on the Smithsonian has him alarmed. "I'm a historian of China, and so I'm really used to when governments are stepping in trying to whitewash history and censor history like that," he said. "And it really upset me to see this being threatened in the United States as well." Millward's colleague, historian Chandra Manning, was equally concerned, so the two of them got together to hatch a plan. "As citizens, we wanted to find a way to step forward and steward this national treasure for now and for the future," said Manning. Manning said they took inspiration from "Save Our Signs," which was created in response to the Trump administration's call for visitors to report signs in National Parks that are "negative about either past or living Americans." Hundreds of visitors photographed signs to help create an archive of what the signs said before any changes were made. "Citizen Historians" aims to do the same for the Smithsonian, said Millward. "So we came up with this idea to call for volunteers to go out and, in a systematic way, go exhibit by exhibit, room by room, hall by hall, museum by museum, and take pictures simply of what's up there now and what's being said now," he said.
Sponsor Message
A vast "repository of human wisdom" This is a massive undertaking. There are millions of artifacts, objects, specimens and artworks on view at the Smithsonian's 21 museums.
Culture
Asked to flag 'negative' National Park content, visitors gave their own 2 cents instead
"The range is really quite breathtaking," said Manning, "from Jackie Robinson's jersey to prehistoric skeletons to Ming vases. It really is a repository of human wisdom right here in Washington, D.C." The historians sent their request for volunteers to friends, neighbors and colleagues. The only requirement was a smartphone and a desire "to join us to help save our history," according to the letter, which was shared with NPR. Millward said hundreds of people responded. "The volunteers run the gamut. Young and old people from all over D.C., Maryland and Virginia," he said. "Some had worked at the Smithsonian before, maybe as docents or even as employees, but many had not. They'd simply visited the Smithsonian themselves over the years and had a real feeling of how important it was." "Citizen historians" with smartphones Volunteer Shelley Smith, a retired public health professional, was assigned the gallery "Forces for Change: Mary McLeod Bethune and Black Women's Activism" at National Museum of African American History and Culture
Culture
Four Democratic senators urge Smithsonian to resist White House attempts to 'bully the institution'
In 1904, Bethune started a school for Black girls in Daytona Beach, Fla. She went on to become a prominent civil rights activist and the first African American to have a state-commissioned statue in the U.S. Capitol, of which a replica is in the gallery. Among the other influential Black women honored are Mamie Till-Mobley, Shirley Chisholm, Lena Horne, Oprah Winfrey and poet Amanda Gorman. Smith photographed everything: a small diary Bethune kept when she visited Europe in 1927, the historic images, the wall text. "You see history in a different light," she said, "They tell the story from a lot of different angles. And so it was just so important to document what the people that initiated this museum and project wanted to be out there and wanted to be said."
Culture
Smithsonian artists and scholars respond to White House list of objectionable art
Millward said he believes museums should change with the times based on scholarly research and historic oversights, not with political pressure. "We don't want a museum that doesn't deal with sensitive issues. We want one that's honest and can talk about the whole range of our history and culture," he said. According to Millward, volunteers have so far uploaded more than 25,000 photographs and videos from Smithsonian museums to a temporary storage site. He and his colleagues are looking for a permanent home for the images. You can follow their progress here.
Culture
Trump expands 'woke' criticism from Smithsonian to other museums
Smithsonian
art
President Trump
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor