Viewing the profile for Ax Sharma
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
CISA exposes malware kits deployed in Ivanti EPMM attacks
Fortra warns of max severity flaw in GoAnywhere MFT’s License Servlet
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeViewing author profile for Ax Sharma
Ax Sharma
Location:Toronto, ON
Title:Security Researcher, Journalist
Forum Profile:AxSharma
Get in touch:
Author Bio
Ax Sharma is a security researcher and journalist focused on malware analyses and cybercrime investigations. His expertise includes open source software security, threat intel analysis, and reverse engineering. Frequently featured by leading media outlets like the BBC, Channel 5 (UK), Fortune, WIRED, among others, Ax is an active community member of the OWASP Foundation and the Canadian Association of Journalists (CAJ).
Send any tips via email or Twitter DM.
Ax Sharma
News
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
News
Sort By :
Date AddedMost ReadTitle
1 2 3 4 5
Self-propagating supply chain attack hits 187 npm packages
Security researchers have identified at least 187 npm packages compromised in an ongoing supply chain attack. The coordinated worm-style campaign dubbed 'Shai-Hulud' started yesterday with the compromise of the @ctrl/tinycolor npm package, and has now expanded to CrowdStrike's npm namespace.
Ax Sharma September 16, 2025
12:46 PM
1
Booking.com phishing campaign uses sneaky 'ん' character to trick you
Threat actors are leveraging a Unicode character to make phishing links appear like legitimate Booking.com links in a new campaign distributing malware. The attack makes use of the Japanese hiragana character, ん, which can, on some systems, appear as a forward slash and make a phishing URL appear realistic to a person at first.
Ax Sharma August 14, 2025
10:23 AM
1
National Bank of Canada online systems down due to 'technical issue'
National Bank of Canada (Banque Nationale du Canada), the sixth largest commercial bank of Canada is currently experiencing a widespread service outage affecting its online banking and mobile app platforms.
Ax Sharma August 06, 2025
09:19 AM
0
npm 'accidentally' removes Stylus package, breaks builds and pipelines
npm has taken down all versions of the Stylus library and replaced them with a "security holding" page, breaking pipelines and builds worldwide that rely on the package.
Ax Sharma July 23, 2025
09:21 AM
0
Popular npm linter packages hijacked via phishing to drop malware
Popular JavaScript libraries eslint-config-prettier and eslint-plugin-prettier were hijacked this week and turned into malware droppers, in a supply chain attack achieved via targeted phishing and credential theft.
Ax Sharma July 19, 2025
08:51 AM
0
Instagram ads mimicking BMO, EQ Bank are finance scams
Instagram ads impersonating financial institutions like Bank of Montreal (BMO) and EQ Bank (Equitable Bank) are being used to target Canadian consumers with phishing scams and investment fraud.
Some ads use AI-powered deepfake videos in an attempt to collect your personal information, while others drive traffic to phishing pages.
Ax Sharma June 17, 2025
12:52 PM
1
Jira Down: Atlassian users experiencing degraded performance
Atlassian users are experiencing degraded performance amid an 'active incident' affecting multiple Jira products since morning hours today. Jira, Jira Service Management, Jira Work Management and Jira Product Discovery are among the impacted products.
Ax Sharma April 16, 2025
10:38 AM
0
Now BlueSky hit with crypto scams as it crosses 20 million users
As users are flocking to BlueSky from social media platforms like X/Twitter, so are threat actors. BleepingComputer has spotted cryptocurrency scams popping up on BlueSky just as the decentralized microblogging service surpassed 20 million users this week.
Ax Sharma November 21, 2024
05:28 AM
2
Amazon and Audible flooded with 'forex trading' and warez listings
Amazon, Amazon Music, and Audible, an Amazon-owned online audiobook and podcast service, have been flooded with bogus listings that push dubious "forex trading" sites, Telegram channels, and suspicious links claiming to offer pirated software.
Ax Sharma November 20, 2024
08:47 AM
0
Spotify abused to promote pirated software and game cheats
Spotify playlists and podcasts are being abused to push pirated software, game cheat codes, spam links, and "warez" sites. By injecting targeted keywords and links in playlist names and podcast descriptions, threat actors may benefit from boosting SEO for their dubious online properties appearing in Google.
Ax Sharma November 19, 2024
05:34 AM
0
GitHub projects targeted with malicious commits to frame researcher
GitHub projects have been targeted with malicious commits and pull requests, in an attempt to inject backdoors into these projects. Most recently, the GitHub repository of Exo Labs, an AI and machine learning startup, was targeted in the attack, which has left many wondering about the attacker's true intentions.
Ax Sharma November 16, 2024
10:30 AM
3
Scammers target UK senior citizens with Winter Fuel Payment texts
As the winter season kicks in, scammers are not missing the chance to target senior British residents with bogus "winter heating allowance" and "cost of living support" scam texts.
Ax Sharma November 09, 2024
04:08 PM
2
Google's mysterious 'search.app' links leave Android users concerned
The most recent update to the Google Android app has startled users as they notice the mysterious "search.app" links being generated when sharing content and links from the Google app externally.
Ax Sharma November 08, 2024
07:56 AM
6
Google Scholar has a 'verified email' for Sir Isaac Newton
It's true: Google Scholar profile of the renowned former physicist and polymath, Sir Isaac Newton bears a "verified email" note. According to Google Scholar, Isaac Newton is a "Professor of Physics, MIT" with a "Verified email at mit.edu."
Ax Sharma October 19, 2024
09:00 AM
4
Google Pay alarms users with accidental ‘new card’ added emails
Google Pay alarmed users this week after erroneously sending out "new card" added email notifications. Google has acknowledged that the email was "accidental" and that no user information was compromised.
Ax Sharma October 06, 2024
09:00 AM
0
Ax Sharma
News
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now