I recommend OnePlus' latest earbuds over pricey AirPods - get them while they're on sale | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
I recommend OnePlus' latest earbuds over pricey AirPods - get them while they're on sale
In addition to their flagship-level noise cancellation, the OnePlus Buds 4 provide bass-heavy audio and in-depth customization.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 1:00 a.m. PT
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETBuy the OnePlus Buds 4 (save up to $30) Save $30
3/5 Editor's deal rating View at OnePlus Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.OnePlus continues to hold its Back to College sales event on its official website, where the company has discounted many of its products -- including the OnePlus Buds 4.For a limited time, you can buy the earbuds for as even $100. No need to add a special code at the checkout page; the $30 discount is automatically applied. This deal applies to both the Zen Green and Storm Gray color options. With your purchase, you'll receive a charging case for the buds, a Type-C Charging Cable, and three pairs of eartips, ranging from small to large.Also: Buy the OnePlus 13 for $200 off its original price - here's how to qualifyThe OnePlus Buds 4 technically aren't the company's flagship earbuds (that honor still belongs to the OnePlus Buds Pro 3), but they do give high-end models a run for their money. ZDNET contributor Prakhar Khanna reviewed the earbuds in July, praising them for their "top-notch ANC (active noise cancellation) performance and… comfortable fit."
Save $30
Buy the OnePlus Buds 4 (save up to $30)
View at OnePlus According to Khanna, the ANC feature is "on par" with the OnePlus Buds Pro 3, "muffling street noise as well as the plane engine on a recent flight." They also have a new "dual DAC (digital-to-analog converter) system" powering each speaker. As a result, these earbuds "are tuned to be bass-heavy". Lower frequencies receive a significant boost, while the rest of the output is more balanced. High frequencies don't pierce the ear, and "mids are pleasant".Also: The OnePlus 12 is one of favorite Android smartphones from 2024 - and it's on sale for $300 offOnePlus also made several design changes. The earbuds are now more comfortable to wear and sport a flatter stem, "a design element taken from the Nords Buds lineup." Thanks to these tweaks, the OnePlus Buds 4 fit well inside the ear and won't fall off.There are some drawbacks, however. The new design places the touch-sensitive area on the outside part of the stem, so the devices move a little while making swipe gestures. Khanna said he had to hold the OnePlus Buds 4 in place just to swipe on them.How I rated this dealAs per ZDNET's rating system, I give the base deal a score of 3/5 -- $30 off these earbuds is a nearly 25% discount. It's a sizable price drop, and quite notable since the OnePlus Buds 4 released just a couple of months ago. At the moment, the devices are at their lowest price yet, although this could change very soon.
When will this deal expire?
As per OnePlus, this deal will end on September 21.Deals are subject to sell out or expire at any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to score savings and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com.
Show more
How do we rate deals at ZDNET?
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals are chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
These budget open-ear headphones just got cheaper, plus get a free Anker charger - here's how
AirPods Pro 3 review: The ANC is so good I'm using these instead of AirPods Max on flights
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use