How Demand for Electricity Is Driving up the Value of Core Scientific - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Finance
What a $9 billion takeover battle says about the next frontier in the AI arms race
By
Daniel Geiger
Assets with access to power are increasingly valuable
Costfoto/NurPhoto via Getty Images
2025-09-22T09:06:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
A major shareholder has objected to CoreWeave's $9 billion offer to purchase Core Scientific.
The teetering data center deal demonstrates how access to electricity is critical in the AI race.
The merger would give CoreWeave 2 gigawatts of electricity, a third of New York City's capacity.
In the span of less than two years, Core Scientific went from a bankrupt crypto mining company to a $9 billion acquisition target. How? By reinventing itself as an upstart player in the artificial intelligence-driven data center craze.
Only now, one of the company's largest shareholders is urging other investors to vote down the deal — arguing that $9 billion isn't nearly enough.While a takeover battle between little-known data center firms might seem like an industry footnote, it speaks volumes about the vast infrastructure arms race taking place behind the AI boom.
Data centers provide the computing and storage necessary for AI, and operating them requires city-sized loads of electricity.This and other rising power demands have outstripped the ability of grids nationwide to keep up, lifting the fortunes of data center platforms like Core Scientific that have access to electricity and the rights to contract more in the near term."There is a lot of value in being able to secure power and surmount the roadblock that everyone in the industry is facing, which is access to power," said Kevin Dede, an equity analyst at H.C. Wainwright who covers Core Scientific.
A $9 billion M&A deal on the rocksIn July, CoreWeave, a roughly $60 billion publicly owned data center company, announced that it had reached an agreement with Core Scientific to merge in an all-stock transaction that, at the time, valued Core Scientific at roughly $9 billion.But in early September, one of Core Scientific's largest shareholders released a draft proxy letter urging stock owners to vote against the merger because it wasn't lucrative enough.Among the chief attributes that shareholder, the investment firm Two Seas Capital, ascribed to Core Scientific was its portfolio of power.
"Core Scientific has a critical first-mover advantage, significant scale and ready access to low-cost power, which we believe positions the company to emerge as a clear leader and compound growth for years to come," it states in its letter.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The merger, which Dede said is now "in peril," would expand CoreWeave's existing capacity to more than 2 gigawatts, about a third of the electrical capacity of New York City on an average day.In a statement about the merger, a CoreWeave spokeswoman said that the company is "confident in securing the approvals necessary to complete the acquisition of Core Scientific" and that the deal will "strengthen our ability to meet the extraordinary demand we see."
A recent industry report suggests that limited access to power is already weighing down data center expansion. Commercial real estate services firm CBRE said that roughly 5.2 gigawatts of new data centers were underway in prime US markets in the first half of 2025, a 17.5% decline in the industry's construction pipeline from the same period a year prior.Pat Lynch, the global head of CBRE's data center solutions team, said the decrease was due mainly to the scarcity of electricity."It is not a lack of demand, it's a lack of supply, specifically utility power," Lynch said. "Absent of power and equipment limitations, that supply delivery number would be significantly higher."
Enormous growth and a premium on electronsThe consulting firm McKinsey estimates that there will be 80 gigawatts of demand for data centers by 2030, a more than threefold increase from today, and that $2.8 trillion will be spent on data center development by the end of the decade.The industry's dramatic growth has enchanted institutional investors.John Dinsdale, the chief analyst and research director at Synergy Research Group, a data firm that tracks the data center industry, said that $46.1 billion of data center merger and acquisition deals have closed in 2025, and that $34 billion more is pending. If all of the pending deals were to close by the end of the year, 2025 would set a record for data center deals by dollar volume.
Major investors are picking acquisition targets with hefty portfolios of gigawattage.Apollo recently announced it had acquired a majority interest in the prominent data center company Stream, stating that the company "controls over 4 gigawatts."Investors Snowhawk and Nuveen announced in July that they had purchased an undisclosed stake in Prime, another notable data center operator. The announcement said that Prime has a "4 gigawatt roadmap of power across top-tier markets" with more than a gigawatt "deliverable between 2025 and 2028."
Biff Ourso, Nuveen's global head of infrastructure, said that power was a key attribute the firm looks for in the data center deals it pursues, including the transaction with Prime."It's a critical piece of the equation for us: what is the development pipeline and what is the contracted power," Ourso said. "Access to powered land for development, that is the big gating issue for the industry today."In a report, Goldman Sachs said that despite the swell of new data center development, supply will lag demand by about 10% per year through 2028, in part because of the grid constraints.
"A lack of capital is not the most pressing bottleneck for AI progress — it's the power needed to fuel it," Dan Dees, the co-head of global banking and markets at the bank, wrote in the report.The scarcity of electricity has also pushed more players to farther flung areas of the country that haven't traditionally seen a lot of data center developmentIn June, Applied Digital, a data center developer, announced that CoreWeave had agreed to lease 250 megawatts of space at a facility Applied Digital is building in Ellendale, North Dakota, with a right to expand its operations at the campus by 150 megawatts.
By August, Applied Digital announced that Coreweave had triggered that expansion option."In my mind, it's illustrative of the intense demands across the industry and how competitive it is," Dede said of the CoreWeave's decision to grow in Ellendale.
Recommended video
Artificial Intelligence
Goldman Sachs
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account