The 20 best horror movies on Netflix in 2025, ranked from least to most scary
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
1
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Get all the scares you need
The 20 best horror movies on Netflix
By
Aimee Hart
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your Polygon account
Credit: Image: Sony Pictures
Halloween is still over a month away, but spooky season has already begun. If the changing of the seasons has you in the mood for a good scary movie, you’re in luck: There are plenty of incredible horror films to dive into on Netflix before October comes along.
Diehard horror fans may prefer dedicated streaming services like Shudder, but as the biggest platform of its kind, Netflix still has plenty to offer, whether you’re a longtime scary movie fan or just getting into the genre. Horror encompasses a range of fears and discomforts, and our movie selection reflects that. From old classics to new and from mildly unnerving to downright terrifying, here are the 20 best horror movies you’ll find on Netflix right now, ranked extremely subjectively from least to most scary.
20
Beetlejuice Beetlejuice (2024)
Credit: Image: Warner Bros.
The original Beetlejuice is a classic for a reason, and if you’re feeling nostalgic and want to jump back into that world, you should definitely check out Tim Burton’s sequel, Beetlejuice Beetlejuice. It has the same tone as the original, while adding its own twists into the mix. A dark comedy more than a horror, Beetlejuice Beetlejuice picks up three decades later. Lydia (Winona Ryder) is still haunted by Beetlejuice and wants to leave that part of her life far behind. However, once her teenage daughter Astrid (Jenna Ortega) opens up a portal to the Afterlife, there’s no stopping the twisted events that come next.
19
The Babysitter (2017)
Horror doesn’t have to be non-stop scares, it can also be deeply funny, too; a sentiment that leads me to recommend The Babysitter from director McG. The film follows 12-year-old Cole (Judah Lewis), a down-on-his-luck kid whose sole solace is the crush he has on his babysitter, Bee (Samara Weaving). Bee looks after Cole when his parents are out of town. One night, he decides to sneak downstairs to see what she’s is up to, only to discover that his favorite person might actually be a secret, murderous cult leader. It’s a cheesy movie that fully embraces plotlines that are way too outlandish to be believable. But if you’re after a film that will make you laugh one minute, and then wince as blood and gore spurt everywhere, you’ll be hard-pressed to find anything to dislike about The Babysitter.
18
Vampires vs. the Bronx (2020)
What’s scarier: vampires or gentrification? Director Oz Rodriguez has the answer: both. This is the premise of the horror-comedy Vampires vs the Bronx, which was easily one of my favorite movies of 2020. It’s got everything you expect and want from the genre: characters that are hilarious, but with substance, tension and terror that prevents it from being a straight-up comedy, and a fascinating angle that you would have never thought of before.
17
Jaws (1975)
Credit: Image: Universal Pictures/Getty Images
Some may debate on whether Jaws, from legendary director Stephen Spielberg, is a thriller or horror. I’ll nip that in the bud by declaring this film about a killer shark terrorizing a New England town a horror-thriller — and a classic one at that. Jaws is legendary for a variety of reasons, but the one that sticks out most is its use of a killer (pun intended) soundtrack that’s recognizable even by those who haven’t watched the film. Spielberg also establishes himself here as being a master of suspense, teasing the monster and ramping up that horrific atmosphere, before practically strangling audiences with tension.
16
The Blackening (2023)
The Blackening is a horror-comedy from director Tim Story about a group of Black friends who head off on a weekend getaway at a cabin in the woods. Surely nothing bad will happen while staying in a cabin in the woods, right? Wrong. The group comes face-to-face with a racist serial killer. It’s a premise that may feel almost too on the nose, but The Blackening is anything but one-note. Self-aware without ruining the suspense, The Blackening balances humor and horror with ease and a sincerity that will touch you just as much as it will make you jump and laugh. It’s a fascinating and subversive film, and one that will stick with you long after.
15
Cargo (2017)
Martin Freeman stars in this compact, post-apocalyptic film about a man looking to find a community to care for his infant daughter after he gets bitten by a zombie. With only 48 hours before his undead transformation is complete, he sets out across the Australian wilderness. Based on a short 2013 film of the same name from director Ben Howling and Yolanda Ramke, Cargo is less of a zombie film than it is a story about finding a community among impossible odds. Humanity often inflicts horrors on each other in zombie stories, but Cargo goes the extra mile to show that, bleak as things may be, we can learn to forgive, accept, and even rely on one another. The apocalypse doesn’t always have to be depressingly bleak and cynical. There’s hope to be found and, in a horror film, that’s the sort of thing that keeps you returning for a second watch. If you’re as emotional as I am, grab the tissues before you watch this one.
14
Till Death (2021)
Credit: Photo: Millennium Films
Most horror fans know Megan Fox from the 2009 film Jennifer’s Body, but if you’re looking for more of Fox in a setting that’s less camp, more horrifying, and as a character that will keep you guessing, you’ll want to check her out in the gut-churning film, Till Death.
The film follows Emma, a woman stuck in an unhappy marriage. One night, she wakes to find she’s handcuffed to her husband, who immediately shoots himself. The situation only gets worse when Emma finds out her husband also set up a hit on her, and now she must fight to survive against two killers who want to silence her forever. Fox is deliciously good here and shows she’s got the spine, and acting chops to be a memorable and contemporary scream queen.
13
Until Dawn (2025)
After a group of friends find themselves lost on the road, they have little choice but to head to a suspiciously abandoned lodge for the night. Only, the lodge (and the surrounding town of Glore Valley) isn’t what it seems. Fans of Supermassive Games might recognize the title from the 2015 video game. And I’ll be honest, when director David F. Sandberg’s adaptation of the survival horror game Until Dawn arrived, I wasn’t a huge fan. But after my second viewing, I realized my love for the video game was holding me back from accepting a truly well-done horror film. Until Dawn handles itself well, featuring a time-loop, weird and creepy creatures, diabolical jump scares, and some truly gorgeous cinematography. It might not be the perfect adaptation of the video game, but it's certainly enjoyable.
12
There’s Someone Inside Your House (2021)
Director Patrick Brice teams up with James Wan (The Conjuring) and Shawn Levy (Stranger Things) to bring the scares in There’s Someone Inside Your House, an adaptation based on the novel of the same name from author Stephanie Perkins (which, if you’re looking for a new novel to get stuck into, is as cracking as a read as this film is to watch). After moving from Hawaii to Nebraska, teenager Makani (Sydney Park) finds herself caught up in a murder mystery that has every victim’s secrets being revealed before they’re unceremoniously killed off. The thematic pillars of this movie are far from subtle, and Brice doesn’t look to reinvent the wheel or make this anything more than a slasher flick. But as far as I’m concerned, that’s part of the film’s charm. It’s a fun romp overall and a perfect watch for you and your friends on a Friday night.
11
Tarot (2024)
Credit: Photo: Slobodan Pikula/Screen Gems
Tarot dares to ask the question: What if you and a bunch of your friends went to a mansion up in the Catskills, read each other’s fortune with some crusty old cards you found, and then were brutally murdered in ways depicted by those cards? Wouldn’t that be fun? If you answered yes, then Spenser Cohen and Anna Halberg’s 2024 supernatural horror is one for you. Tarot’s plot is surprisingly twisty, even with such a basic premise. Its kills are memorable and phobia-inducing, its setting haunting, and its production and set design is immaculate. Most importantly, Cohen and Halberg know what you’re here for: big scares. They’re happy to provide.
What to Watch
Movies
Entertainment
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Nefrarya
Nefrarya
Nefrarya
#PC881503
Member since 2022-05-26
217
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
nvm
2025-09-20 19:02:22
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
4 days ago
How long is the Homestuck animated pilot?
4 days ago
The 25 best games on Game Pass
3 days ago
Roblox's brainrot game is caught in a legal snafu that's got fans freaking out
More from our brands
The 55 Best Movies of All Time, Ranked
The 59 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now
15 Best Westerns on Hulu to Watch Right Now
The Best Thrillers on Netflix Right Now (April 2025)
The 24 Best Hidden Gem Movies on Netflix Right Now
These HBO Max movies are better than what Netflix recommends
50 Best New Movies on Streaming to Watch Right Now
Most Popular
Can the U.S. handle a 28 Years Later-style outbreak?
Jordan Peele might be the next Steven Spielberg — which also means producing duds
Magic's new Spider-Man set exposes a growing debate over MTG's most popular product
28 Years Later: The zombies are doing what?
50 years ago, Al Pacino made a perfect crime thriller that was ahead of its time
15 years later, Halo fans are still debating Halo: Reach
See More
Trending Now
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
What is a AAA game? A clever system ends the debate
Tencent punches back at Horizon Zero Dawn lawsuit, says game isn't that unique
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.