Women who experienced stalking or obtained restraining orders have higher risk of heart disease, study finds - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk
FBI Hearing
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
CBS Evening News
|
Full Episodes
Eye On America
On the Road
Watch CBS News
CBS Evening News
Women who experienced stalking or obtained restraining orders have higher risk of heart disease, study finds
By
Deanna Marie Lowe,
Anna
Schecter
Anna
Schecter
Senior Coordinating Producer, Crime and Public Safety Unit
Anna Schecter is the senior coordinating producer for CBS News and Stations' Crime and Public Safety Unit, based in New York.
Read Full Bio
Anna
Schecter
Updated on:
September 12, 2025 / 8:52 PM EDT
/ CBS News
Study: Stalked women have higher risk of heart disease
Study: Higher risk of heart disease for women who were stalked, obtained restraining orders
02:51
Dr. Ramneek Dosanjh got married young. But before long, she says her marriage dissolved into a cycle of control and domestic violence.
"Within a week of meeting and dating, tells you they love you and they will marry you, you know, it all seems dreamy," Dosanjh told CBS News. It got worse, she says, when she tried to leave. "You just don't know if you can sustain living that way," said Dosanjh, who then chose to get an order of protection against her then-husband.The toll on her health started to show.
"I had abnormal stress tests," Dosanjh said. "I had to have a cardiac catheterization."
And she's not alone according to a study released last month by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health."We saw this association, which frankly also blew me away," said Dr. Karestan Koenen, who led a team of Harvard researchers who analyzed data for about 66,270 American nurses, ages 36 to 56, who were surveyed about their own health for 20 years between 2001 and 2021.Of those in the survey, 11.7% reported experience with stalking, and 5.6% reported experience with obtaining a restraining order. The study, published in the scientific journal Circulation, found that the risk for cardiovascular disease was 41% higher in women who had experienced stalking — and 70% higher for women who had obtained a restraining order — compared to those who had not.
"We have all the information on their diet and exercise," Koenen said. "And we find that it's really the stalking that increases the risk, not all these other factors, because we can adjust for them.""Experiences of stalking and obtaining a restraining order are both associated with an increased risk of developing CVD (cardiovascular disease) in women," the study concluded. "Common experiences of violence among women may affect cardiovascular health and warrant consideration alongside more traditional risk factors."Many of the women that CBS News talked to were afraid to disclose their identities. One of them says she and her children were abused by their father."I had three recurring episodes of deep vein thrombosis, which means another three blood clots in a short amount of time," the woman told CBS News. According to a 2016-2017 survey from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly one in three women have experienced stalking at some point in their lives.Researchers say the results of the study could spur doctors to add questions about stalking and restraining orders when screening for heart health risk factors in the future. Said Koenen, "The ultimate goal is to improve women's health."
For anonymous, confidential help, people can call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 or 1-800-787-3224. People can text START to 88788 or chat on TheHotline.org.
More from CBS News
California study: Wildfire defensible space, home hardening double number of homes saved
Walnut Creek police detain juveniles in grab-and-run robberies at downtown stores
San Francisco Fire responds to crash involving Muni train
Spectator dies after fall at Crockett sideshow
3 people dead in San Jose overnight shooting; suspect at large
Stalking
Domestic Violence
Heart Disease
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
More from CBS News
Miami Dolphins legend Dan Marino reveals he was diagnosed with liver disease 18 years ago
Florida universities discipline workers after controversial Charlie Kirk comments
Man arrested after allegedly stealing an ambulance from Hialeah Hospital
Broward Catholic school administrator charged with grand theft, authorities say
Featured
Charlie Kirk Death
Charlie Kirk Shooting Suspect
U.S. Losing Thousands of Manufacturing Jobs
2025 Emmy Awards
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue