Best Nonstick Pans of 2025: Our Picks for Hassle-free Frying Pans
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Kitchen & Household
Best Nonstick Pan for 2025: Our Top Pick Won't Cost You More Than $40
We tested more than a dozen nonstick and ceramic skillets from leading brands including Made In, All-Clad, Caraway and Misen. Here are the absolute best nonstick skillets to hang on your rack.
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Article updated on June 19, 2025 at 11:00 AM PDT
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
There's no substitute for a quality nonstick frying pan when time is of the essence and there isn't any extra built in for scrubbing a dirty skillet. Nonstick skillets can be had for cheap -- some as inexpensively as $25 -- and our sizzling hot (sorry) take is that, with a few exceptions, you don't need to splurge big to get a reliable one. That most nonstick skillets inevitably wear out -- unlike other cookware materials -- is even more reason to bag a budget-friendly pan you can use and abuse.
Our Picks
Best nonstick pan overall Tramontina Professional fry pan
Jump to details
$32 at Amazon
Jump to details
Another great pan Misen 10-inch pan
Jump to details
$89 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best ceramic frying pan Made in CeramiClad frying pan
Jump to details
$149 at Made In
Jump to details
Best nonstick pan for high-heat cooking HexClad hybrid frying pan
Jump to details
$149 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best nonstick pan set for induction cooktops All-Clad Hard-Anodized skillets (set of 2)
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Nonstick Pan for 2025: Our Top Pick Won't Cost You More Than $40
What's the best overall nonstick pan?
Best nonstick frying pans for 2025
Best nonstick pan overall
Another great pan
Best ceramic frying pan
Best nonstick pan for high-heat cooking
Best nonstick pan set for induction cooktops
Nonstick frying pans compared
Recent updates
The rest of the field: Other nonstick pans we tested
Factors to consider: Nonstick pan buying guide
Core material
How we test nonstick skillets
Quick guide to caring for your nonstick cookware
What's the best overall nonstick pan? After more than 20 hours of sizzling pancakes to test evenness, vaporizing ice cubes to test heating speed and frying eggs to evaluate how nonstick these nonstick pans really are, the $35 Tramontina Professional skillet emerged as the best overall nonstick frying pan to buy. But hours of testing more than a dozen pans revealed other nontoxic, nonstick skillets worthy of a spot on your rack.
MisenNonstick pans come in various types. Ceramic coatings are often seen as a cleaner alternative, while chemical-coated nonstick pans are cheaper, though certain types can become toxic if overheated. (Here's how to make sure your nonstick pan won't cause issues.) Most newer nonstick pans, as well as those from trusted manufacturers are made with materials widely considered to be nontoxic and food safe, so the choice comes down to what matters most to you as a cook.
Good nonstick frying pans will see you through a lot of busy mornings. David Watsky/CNETBelow you'll find our picks for the absolute best nonstick and ceramic frying pans to buy in 2025. Best nonstick frying pans for 2025
Tramontina
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tramontina
Best nonstick pan overall
Tramontina Professional fry pan
Pros
At under $40, it is a great value buy
Light and easy to maneuver
Available in four sizes
Cons
Thinner pan, which could mean easier warping
Rough bottom could scratch a glass stovetop
Why I like it:Combining performance with real value, Tramontina's 10-inch skillet takes the top spot for the best nonstick frying pan. You can find cheaper pans -- and plenty that cost more -- but none of the under-$50 bunch matched Tramontina's combination of nonstick prowess, even heating and handle comfort. It's oven-safe up to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. It performed exceptionally well in our pancake and fried egg test, and the lightweight frying pan was easy to maneuver around the stovetop. This wallet-friendly pan is available in four sizes, from 8 inches to 14 (an unusually large size and more pan than the average chef would want or need).Who is it good for?This is the perfect budget pick for a new chef or someone unwilling to spend loads on fancy cookware.Who should avoid it? This pan is not compatible with induction stoves, so those who use one should look elsewhere. If you're planning to really go hard with your new nonstick skillet, this might not be the one. The base is thinner cast aluminum, which should resist warping, but has less heft than some competitors, which could spell a shorter lifespan than some other skillets on our list.  ... Show more
Get it now
$32 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Sizes available (inches
8, 10, 12, 14Weight
2 lbs.Oven-safe range
Up to 500 F / 260 C (without silicone grip)Materials
Aluminum, chemical nonstickDishwasher safe
Yes, but not recommendedWarranty
LifetimeInduction compatible
NoPrice
$35
Add to compare
Misen
Photo Gallery 1/1
Misen
Another great pan
Misen 10-inch pan
Pros
Sturdily built with a thicker coating than other pans
4-inch aluminum core resists warping
Comfortable handle
Cons
On the expensive side for a nonstick skillet
Why I like it:For a nonstick skillet, the Misen 10-inch pan ticked more performance boxes than any other, but at $89, it's by no means a budget-friendly pick. It's sturdy but not heavy and sports a premium surface that turns out eggs and pancake batter with no sticking. Misen's nonstick pans use a PFOA-free, three-layer platinum coating that I found just slightly more nonstick than others. The gently flared sides allowed for pancakes and eggs to slide out without the use of a spatula, but still kept contents from spilling over during cooking, even when given a few shakes. Who should get it?If a comfortable grip is important to you, this is the pan. What pushed the Misen pan over the top for me was the ergonomic handle that makes for a seriously comfortable gripper. The handle also has just a slight slant, something I find makes negotiating things like eggs and pancakes easier since they often require a good bit of maneuvering and flipping. Misen's excellent pan is available in three sizes: 8, 10 and 12 inches. Who is it not good for?At $100, this is not a cheap nonstick pan. You can find reliable nonstick skillets for less than half this price, but they might not offer the same durability and design.  ... Show more
Get it now
$89 at Amazon
$99 at Misen
Specs & Configurations
Sizes available (inches)
8, 10, 12Weight
2.6 lbs.Oven-safe range
Up to 450 F/ 232 CMaterials
Aluminum core, nonstick PFOA-free coatingDishwasher safe
Yes, but hand wash preferredInduction compatible
YesPrice
$89
Add to compare
Made In
Photo Gallery 1/1
Made In
Best ceramic frying pan
Made in CeramiClad frying pan
Pros
Vaporized an ice cube faster than any nonstick pan we tested
Cooked evenly and released food with ease
Sturdy build and 4-inch aluminum core for durability
Looks great
Cons
$130 is a lot for one nonstick frying pan
What I liked: I'll start by saying that I really loved this pan and think it's worth every penny -- and it do cost a few. The Made In ceramic skillet released food exceptionally well and heated the most evenly of any nonstick pan we tested, ceramic or otherwise. It also heated faster than any other, turning a nugget of ice into vapor in an astounding 11 seconds when the burner under it was turned on high from the off position. The coating held up when confronted with a ding from my metal spatula and the handle was easy to grip. It's slightly heavier than some of the nonstick pans in our test cohort, but that's largely due to its 4-inch aluminum core and five-ply build. Who is it for:This ceramic pan looks, feels and performs just like a professional piece of cookware. It heats with exceptional speed, sears as well as a nonstick pan, and lets go of food when it's ready to be plated. Unlike traditional nonstick pans, which aren't oven-safe above 400 F, ceramic pans like the Made In CeramiClad can hit the oven up to 550 degrees F.Who should avoid it:At $130, this is one of the most expensive skillets we tried, but the unique performance justifies its place on our list.  ... Show more
Get it now
$149 at Made In
$130 at Macy's
Specs & Configurations
Sizes available (inches)
8, 10, 12Weight
2.5 lbs.Material
Aluminum core, ceramic coatingOven-safe range
Up to 550 F/ 288 CDishwasher safe
NoInduction compatible
YesPrice
$130
Add to compare
HexClad
Photo Gallery 1/1
HexClad
Best nonstick pan for high-heat cooking
HexClad hybrid frying pan
Pros
Imparts a better sear than typical nonstick kitchenware
Resistant to metal use
Sturdy build and comfortable handle
Dishwasher and oven-safe
Cons
Expensive
Not as nonstick as fully nonstick pans
Why I like it:HexClad is an intriguing addition to the nonstick conversation. While I'd almost never recommend spending nearly $150 on a single nonstick pan, given the inevitable surface erosion and short lifespan, HexClad may be the exception. This unique skillet's surface combines nonstick ceramic with a honeycomb pattern of raised stainless steel to protect it. The HexClad promise is that you'll get the benefits of nonstick but with the searing abilities of stainless steel in a pan that should last longer than the average nonstick.Who is it good for?If you want the low-effort of a nonstick pan but with the ability to sear meat like steaks and pork chops, Hexclad is one of the only ones that will.Who should avoid it?If you're looking for the true sear you get from stainless steel and cast iron, this pan comes close but won't quite get crusts and sears the way those pure materials do. I found that the hybrid surface does indeed release food in much the same way most other nonstick pans do. It's also expensive, so not a good pick for the budget-conscious. Read my full review of HexClad cookware here.   ... Show more
Get it now
$149 at Amazon
$219 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Sizes available (inches)
7, 8, 10, 12, 14Weight
3 lbs.Oven-safe range
Up to 500 F (400 F with lid)Materials
Aluminum, stainless steel, nonstick, ceramicDishwasher safe
YesWarranty
LifetimeInduction compatible
YesPrice
$149
Add to compare
All-Clad
Photo Gallery 1/1
All-Clad
Best nonstick pan set for induction cooktops
All-Clad Hard-Anodized skillets (set of 2)
Pros
High sides are great for avoiding a mess
Good value for a legacy cookware brand
Works on induction stovetops
Cons
Heavier than other nonstick pans
Coating scratches easily&nbsp;if not handled properly
What I like about it:All-Clad is known for its chef-level stainless steel cookware, but the Pennsylvania-based producer makes quality nonstick pans, too. If you want more than one nonstick fry pan, I recommend All-Clad's excellent hard-anodized nonstick pans, which come in a set of two for around $100. I've used an All-Clad hard-anodized nonstick skillet regularly for about five years and am happy with the performance.Instead of a fully aluminum base, these nonstick pans have an aluminum core reinforced for durability -- aka hard anodized -- and encased in bonded stainless steel, making them compatible with induction cooktops. This set is great for those more those who handle cookware aggressively. For the gentler home cook, a less durable Essentials set (not hard-anodized aluminum) set of the same pans is available for $80. Who is it good for?The high sloped sides make the All-Clad pans a good pick for those who tend to make a mess when pan-frying. Having a set is handy if you use nonstick cookware often.Who should avoid it?The nonstick coating releases food well, but it will chip fairly easily if you slip and use a metal or hard plastic utensil on it.
... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Sizes in set (inches)
8, 10.5Weight
5 lbs. (total)Oven-safe range
Up to 500 FMaterial
Hard-anodized aluminum / stainless steelDishwasher safe
YesWarranty
LifetimeInduction compatible
YesPrice
$100
Add to compareNonstick frying pans compared
Nonstick Fry PanSizes available (inches)WeightOven-safe rangeMaterialsDishwasher safeInduction compatible Tramontina Professional Fry Pan 8, 10, 122 lbs.500 F / 260 C (without silicone grip)Aluminum, nonstick coatingYes, hand wash preferredNoMisen 10-inch Pan 8, 10, 122.6 lbs.450 F/ 232 CPlatinum, aluminum, nonstick coatingYes, hand wash preferredYesMade In CeramiClad Skillet 8, 10, 122.5 lbs.550 F / 288 CCeramic, aluminum, stainless steelNoYesHexClad Hybrid Frying Pan 7,8,10,12,143 lbs.500 F (400 F with lid)Aluminum, stainless steel, ceramicYesYesAll-Clad Hard-Anodized Frying Pan 8, 10, 122.5 lbs.500 FAluminum, nonstick coatingYes, hand wash preferredYes
Recent updates
June 2025Tramontina Professional pan recategorized as best nonstick frying pan overallMade In CeramiClad skillet tested and added as the best ceramic frying panMisen nonstick skillet added as best premium nonstick frying pan The rest of the field: Other nonstick pans we tested
In truth, a lot of these nonstick skillets performed well in their most basic duty to cook food and then subsequently release it for an easy clean. The reason some didn't make the cut was a bloated price tag that just doesn't seem worth it for a pan that only lasts a few years. Others didn't have handles I loved, had balance issues, cooked less evenly than the top-rated pans, or had other small flaws that edged them out of the top spots. In short: most of the pans below will get you through your morning routine without a major headache -- but you've come here for the best of the best.OXO Good Grips fry pan: This nonstick pan performed well and would be a fine alternative to the Tramontina pan we selected.Made in Nonstick Frying Pan: This was a close second for best premium nonstick pan, but the $149 price tag keeps it out of the top.Caraway ceramic nonstick frying pan: This pan released food well, but had slow conductivity in our ice test. It's also expensive.Ninja Neverstick premium skillet: The Neverstick from Ninja performed well in testing but had more uneven heat distribution than some on our list.T-Fal Prograde titanium nonstick fry pan: Another that didn't receive any failing grades and would be a fine nonstick pan to stock your rack with.Viking Culinary nonstick fry pan: This heavy, stainless steel frying pan conducted heat quickly and the nonstick worked well, but $219 is too much to pay for a cookware material that will break down over time.Material The Coated Pan: This copper-core nonstick pan conducts heat better than anything else, but $120 is still too much for a non-ceramic nonstick pan.Calphalon nonstick frying pan: Nothing about this pan stood out in our testing and it's not cheap at nearly $80 for a 10-inch skillet.Abbio nonstick skillet (Update: Currently unavailable) Factors to consider: Nonstick pan buying guide
Surface material: Traditional nonstick vs. ceramicA lot has been said about nonstick cookware and not all of it good. Teflon, a synthetic fluoropolymer (PFOA), was used heavily in cookware in starting in the 1960s but was later found to cause cancer. In 2002, all use of nonstick coatings using PFOA was banned, and modern nonstick coatings are widely considered safe, including all of the frying pans we tested for this list.
Nothing is less sticky than traditional chemically coated nonstick pans, but ceramic comes awfully close. Pamela Vachon/CNETCeramic cookware, an all-natural alternative to chemically coated nonstick pans, has become popular with those still wary about forever chemicals in cookware. Most cookware brands now offer a ceramic line of nonstick pots and pans with some brands including Greenpan and Caraway specializing in the material. Ceramic cookware is able to withstand hotter temperatures, while nonstick pans can leach chemicals when heated above 500 F. Ceramic cookware has it's drawbacks, however. It's typically not as nonstick as traditional nonstick cookware and many types show wear faster. It's also more expensive, on the whole, with quality ceramic frying pans starting at around $50 and many costing over $100.
Made In's nontoxic ceramic skillet is a pricey but impressive piece of kitchen equipment. Made InCooking performance and care for the two types are similar. Both release food well but don't impart as much surface heat as stainless steel or cast iron, making it harder to get a proper sear on meats like beef, pork and chicken. It is recommended to use wooden utensils and to hand-wash both types of nonstick cookware so as not to damage the coating. For more, here's CNET's guide to nontoxic cookware. Core material
You have three basic options for the core material breakdown of your nonstick skillet. All three of these skillet types will have a nonstick coating. These coatings are largely made from a synthetic fluoropolymer called polytetrafluoroethylene, or PTFE. Teflon is a familiar brand name for this nonstick material that you've likely heard of. Some cheap pan producers use fewer coatings of PTFE and so will wear out faster.
A visual tutorial on how not to store nonstick kitchenware. David Watsky/CNETIt's what's underneath the PTFE that matters more and, depending on your cooking needs and the type of stovetop you use, one might be better for you than the others. Fully aluminum Fully aluminum nonstick skillets are great because they are light and cheap -- nonstick skillets have a short lifespan -- but they don't have the structure that comes with tough stainless steel, so they're likely to warp faster. They heat up quicker than other pans since aluminum is a fierce conductor but won't work on induction surfaces.Aluminum core with steel plate bonded to the bottom With a stainless steel plate fasted to the bottom, your pan is likely to have more rigidity so if you tend to abuse cookware, it shouldn't warp or dent as easily. These pans are great because they'll work on induction stoves. The downside is that they're a bit heavier and generally more expensive.Aluminum core fully encased in stainless steel This makeup is similar to those described above except the stainless steel plate surrounds the aluminum core entirely. These pans will also work with induction heating elements but have even more total weight and often cost more, too. On the plus side, you'll have a sturdy pan with a core that should better withstand abuse. Be ready to exercise some patience, however, since a stainless steel-wrapped pan will take longer to heat up than one made of only aluminum. CopperHeats faster and more evenly than aluminum but is far more expensive. Considering most nonstick pans don't last forever, the copper core feels like a waste unless you're rolling in dough.
The materials that your pan is made from will affect the weight, durability and stove compatibility. And price too, of course. David Watsky/CNET How we test nonstick skillets
There are a few simple tests I run on nonstick skillets for measuring even heating, surface flatness as well as each pan's nonstick properties and ability to release food. Fried and eggs and omelets: Classic nonstick fare The first and arguably most important test shows us how well each pan releases sticky foods, including eggs and pancakes. I cooked both a fried egg and a whipped egg omelet in each. The hope is that each one releases the food completely once cooked, with as little food left as possible. In truth, all of the fry pans released the eggs well during this test and with no single skillet flunking. There were some slight variances in performance, however. The pans I've selected as my top picks in each category all performed as well or better than average.
This is the lift you can expect with a good nonstick skillet. David Watsky/CNETPancakes reveal all. Well, a lot anywayI also cooked a pan-size pancake in each pan -- a test that does double duty. Beyond illuminating a pan's non-stickiness, it also shows how evenly a skillet heats and cooks.
Browning a pancake shows us how evenly a pan cooks and how well it releases a notoriously sticky breakfast food. David Watsky/CNETAfter loading a cold pan with one cup of pancake batter, I turned the heat on and let it cook for two minutes. Normally, you'd add pancake batter to a preheated pan but here I want the batter to spread evenly and settle in the pan before cooking so I can really see if they have hot or cold spots. I flipped the pancake out of the pan and upside down. It was a messy business, but what was revealed on the other side were pancake darkness gradients that shed light on each pan's ability to cook evenly across its surface. We cooked ice to test conduction speedTo test each pan's conduction speed, we placed one nugget ice cube in the center and turned the burner below on high. We then timed how long it took the cube to melt and vaporize, showing us how quickly the pan is able to heat up. The top-performing pan was Made In's CeramiClad ceramic skillet, which turned the nugget of ice into vapor in an astounding 11 seconds. Others in the cohort took as long as a minute.
We tested how quickly each pan heats up using a single nugget of ice. Made In's CeramiClad skillet disappeared the ice completely in 11 seconds. David Watsky/CNETOther considerations While performing these tests, I'm also careful to note other factors like a pan's overall size, weight and balance on the stove. I also consider the height and slope angle of its sides as well as the angle and construction of the handle. Some of these factors are admittedly subjective, especially handle comfort, so it might make sense to find a cookware superstore and test various handles before making a final selection.
It might seem like a small thing, but the handle angle can make a big difference in maneuvering the pan. I like the subtle slope of the Misen pan. The rubber sheath was easy on my hand. David Watsky/CNETDurability of nonstick coatings This is a trickier factor to assess. Ultimately, you'll want your nonstick coating to last as long as possible, but you're really only able to gauge this with consistent use over time. In my experience, decent nonstick frying pans will last anywhere from three to four years before they really start to break down. While I don't have the luxury of testing each pan's durability over that timespan, I do look deep into reviews on each pan to see if there were any red flags or patterns that might suggest they corrode faster.
If your nonstick skillet looks anything like this, it's time to pony up for a fresh pan. David Watsky/CNETWhile no nonstick pan will last forever, a few of our picks including the Made In ceramic and Misen nonstick feature multiple layers of reinforced
surface which should conceivably give them a longer life. The pricier pans also typically have a tougher core with more layers (plys) of stronger aluminum -- often referred to as "hard-anodized" aluminum -- so they're less susceptible to warping.But, remember, a strong inner core doesn't mean much if the surface wears out after a few years, so be careful where you spend your money and even more careful cooking with your pans if you want to get good bang for your buck.
Price was one of the biggest factors
Made In's excellent ceramic skillet is one of the only pans we deemed worthy of a true splurge. For a traditional non-ceramic nonstick pan, you'll do fine with Tramontina's $35 offering. Made InBecause of the short lifespan, you'd be wise not to spend a fortune on one nonstick skillet. Besides the HexClad, Misen and Made In CeramiClad which offer unique surface makeup and exceptional performance, I don't recommend spending more than $70 or $80 on a single nonstick skillet.If you go too cheap (pans under $30 or so), you'll find that nonstick coatings start to corrode much more quickly and you'll need to replace them sooner. I've made this mistake before and it's simply not worth the hassle just to save a few bucks. Cost and value were some of the biggest determining factors I considered when choosing the best nonstick fry pans for 2025.  Quick guide to caring for your nonstick cookware
You should never use metal on nonstick skillets since they will scrape and scratch the coating and cause the skillet to lose its nonstick surface much faster.Nonstick cooking spray is also not recommended for PTFE-coated pans. It can lead to a filmy buildup over time. Butter or natural cooking oil is your friend but a good, new nonstick pan shouldn't need much help.Don't use high heat when cooking with your nonstick skillet. Scorching temps will damage the sensitive nonstick surface.Always handwash your nonstick pan. Some skillets are technically "dishwasher safe" but exposing them to that much hot water and soap for long periods will erode the nonstick surface over time. Plus, quality nonstick pans generally don't take more than a few soft wipes with a wet sponge and hot water to get clean. Storing nonstick cookware properly is also paramount. If you're going to stack it, use rubber or felt separators to protect the nonstick finish.
Nonstick skillet FAQ
Is nonstick cookware compatible with induction stovetops?
Because induction cooking relies on magnetic fields to generate heat through cookware, nonstick pans must have a magnetic base -- usually made of stainless steel or iron -- in order to work on induction cooktops. Some nonstick cookware has aluminum or copper bases with no magnetic properties, and thus won't work on your induction stove.
How long does nonstick cookware last?
If you care for it properly (no metal, only handwashing), a typical nonstick skillet should last about four or five years before it starts to wear down and lose its nonstick ability. If you use your nonstick skillet more than three times per week, this timeline might shrink a bit. And if you only bust it out once per week or less, you'll probably have it a bit longer than five years.
Is it safe to use nonstick cookware?
Is ceramic cookware better than nonstick?
Ceramic nonstick cookware has become a popular option. The main brag is that these pans use no chemicals versus traditional PTFE surfaces. While that may be true, the chemicals used in modern nonstick aren't shown to be harmful when used properly.The downside of ceramic coatings is that they often lose their nonstick properties a bit faster than PTFE surfaces. They also tend to be more expensive, with skillets from popular producers, including Made In and Caraway, costing upwards of $100 for a single skillet.
Can you use metal utensils on nonstick cookware?
No. You should always use wood, rubber or soft plastic when cooking with nonstick. Nearly all nonstick cookware surfaces, including ceramic, will become damaged and break down faster if you use metal. The one exception we've encountered is HexClad's hybrid skillet since it features a ceramic skillet intertwined with stainless steel to protect the fragile nonstick.
About the Author
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen
David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week.
Read full bio
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.