How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
FBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce data
New VoidProxy phishing service targets Microsoft 365, Google accounts
Save 60% on a refurbished Apple’s 2021 MacBook Pro M1
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeTutorials & Tech Support GuidesWeb Browsers TutorialsHow to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
Alec Abrams
August 8, 2024
Read 254,617 times
The dark web refers to websites that are not on the regular internet but are instead hidden in a private network that is only accessible using specialized web browsers, such as the Tor Browser.
The Tor Browser is an open-source web browser created for anonymous browsing and to evade censorship. It routes users' traffic through thousands of volunteer-run servers called nodes/relays. These nodes/relays and the websites operating on them make up the Tor network, or as it is more generally named, the dark web.
Sites running on the Tor network are called Onion sites as the URLs end with the ".onion" TLD, such as the CIA's website at http://ciadotgov4sjwlzihbbgxnqg3xiyrg7so2r2o3lt5wz5ypk4sxyjstad.onion. Notice how the URL ends with the .onion TLD.
These sites are only accessible over the Tor network and are commonly used for privacy and anonymity. The Tor Browser also features many built-in protections that protect against tracking and fingerprinting.
While the Tor network was not created for illegal activities, as it's harder to trace websites to their physical location, cybercriminals have also adopted it to host their websites.
For example, ransomware gangs use the dark web to leak stolen data and extort victims, and dark web marketplaces sell illegal items, such as drugs, weapons, stolen credit cards, stolen credentials, and malware.
However, not all sites running on the Dark Web are malicious. For example, legitimate sites, such as the BBC, the New York Times, ProPublica, and Facebook, have made their sites accessible as a Tor Onion URL to help people avoid government censorship.
This guide will teach you how to install the Tor Browser in Windows easily so you can access the Dark Web or browse the web anonymously. The same general process applies to other operating systems, as Tor is also available for Mac and Linux.
How to Install Tor
To gain access to the Dark Web, you must first install the Tor Browser. You can find the installer on their website: torproject.org.
Upon opening the Tor website, you will be presented with various download options for the operating systems that Tor supports, including Windows, macOS, Linux, and Android.
Available Tor Browser download optionsSource: BleepingComputer
Upon selecting the button for your operating system, you will be prompted to download the installer, which you should save to a folder.
Once the file is downloaded, run it to launch the installer and follow the prompt until the Tor browser is installed.
How to access your first Dark Web or Onion Site
When the Tor Browser is launched, you will be brought to a purple homepage with a search field for the DuckDuckGo search engine in the center of the screen. This search field allows you to perform regular, but now anonymized, web searches through DuckDuckGo's Tor site.
The Tor BrowserSource: BleepingComputer
The search results from DuckDuckGo will be for websites on the regular web, which you still visit through Tor. For dark websites, you need to enter the specific Onion URL you wish to visit into the browser's address bar.
These URLs are usually very long, consisting of a random jumble of letters and numbers. Though you likely won't remember the addresses of onion websites, you can find these URLs on various websites on the internet.
Some safe URLs you can use to access news, government websites, and directories of Tor URLs can be found below:
Tor Links - A directory of Tor URLs you can click on to visit the site.http://torlinksge6enmcyyuxjpjkoouw4oorgdgeo7ftnq3zodj7g2zxi3kyd.onion/
Ahmia - A search engine for dark websites.http://juhanurmihxlp77nkq76byazcldy2hlmovfu2epvl5ankdibsot4csyd.onion/
DuckDuckGo - The privacy-centric search engine DuckDuckGo has created an Onion URL that you can use to search the web (not the dark web).https://duckduckgogg42xjoc72x3sjasowoarfbgcmvfimaftt6twagswzczad.onion/
ProPublica - Tor site for the news site ProPublica.http://p53lf57qovyuvwsc6xnrppyply3vtqm7l6pcobkmyqsiofyeznfu5uqd.onion/
The New York Times - Access The New York Times through Tor.https://www.nytimesn7cgmftshazwhfgzm37qxb44r64ytbb2dj3x62d2lljsciiyd.onion/
BBC - The British Broadcasting Corporation on Tor.https://www.bbcnewsd73hkzno2ini43t4gblxvycyac5aw4gnv7t2rccijh7745uqd.onion/
Facebook - Access the social media site through Tor. Facebook is banned in numerous countries, including China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia.https://www.facebookwkhpilnemxj7asaniu7vnjjbiltxjqhye3mhbshg7kx5tfyd.onion/
Rewards for Justice: Submit tips and information about terrorists and criminals to the US State Department in exchange for monetary rewards.he5dybnt7sr6cm32xt77pazmtm65flqy6irivtflruqfc5ep7eiodiad.onion
CIA - The official site of the Central Intelligence Agency in the USA. Don't be naughty.http://ciadotgov4sjwlzihbbgxnqg3xiyrg7so2r2o3lt5wz5ypk4sxyjstad.onion
Defcon - The Tor site for the Defcon cybersecurity conference.http://g7ejphhubv5idbbu3hb3wawrs5adw7tkx7yjabnf65xtzztgg4hcsqqd.onion/
ProtonMail - Access your ProtonMail account over Tor.https://protonmailrmez3lotccipshtkleegetolb73fuirgj7r4o4vfu7ozyd.onion/
Copy your desired onion URL and paste it into the address bar at the top of the screen to begin searching on the dark web. Alternatively, if the website has turned the onion URL into a link, you can click on that in the Tor browser, and it will automatically open the dark website.
Using Tor is especially helpful in countries where authoritarian governments censor the internet, preventing citizens from accessing news outside their country.
Tor allows you to circumvent these restrictions and get access to worldwide news, such as the BBC website shown below.
The BBC onion site in the Tor browserSource: BleepingComputer
Remember, the Tor browser connects to the internet differently than regular browsers in an attempt to increase your anonymity online.
This requires your connection to go through multiple nodes and relays, which will slow down browsing on Tor.
Please remember to be safe and enjoy using your newly installed Tor browser!
Users who read this also read:
How to see hidden files in Windows
By default Windows hides certain files from being seen with Windows Explorer or My Computer. This is done to protect these files, which are usually system files, from accidentally being modified or deleted by the user. Unfortunately viruses, spyware, and hijackers often hide there files in this way making it hard to find them and then delete them.
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection is a security feature introduced in Windows 11 22H2 that protects systems from various memory attacks, such as stack buffer overflows.
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
The Registry Editor is a powerful application that allows you to access and edit the configuration settings of the Windows operating system. Here's how to use it.
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
If you use a computer, read the newspaper, or watch the news, you will know about computer viruses or other malware. These are those malicious programs that once they infect your machine will start causing havoc on your computer. What many people do not know is that there are many different types of infections that are categorized in the general category of Malware.
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
The Windows Registry is a crucial component of the Windows operating system that stores configuration settings and options. Therefore, it is always important to make a backup of the Windows Registry before making any changes.
Comments:
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
search tutorials
Tutorials Navigation
Tutorials Home
New Tutorials
Popular Tutorials
RSS Feed
Latest tutorials
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
Alec Abrams
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
Lawrence Abrams
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
Lawrence Abrams
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
Lawrence Abrams
How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator
Lawrence Abrams
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now