DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes — bug that crashes the game when gametic value hits 2,147,483,647 ticks likely to blame | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
PC Gaming
Doom runs surprisingly well on Anker Prime Charger
PlayStation
Windows 95 on a PlayStation 2 kind of works — but this modded PS2 couldn’t play Doom
Retro Gaming
DOOM multiplayer tribute gets coded in 'pure SQL' and runs at 30FPS
PC Gaming
AMD Threadripper Pro 9995WX can run 400 copies of Doom or eight instances of Crysis simultaneously
PC Gaming
3D Pinball bug allowed game to run at 5,000 FPS
Software
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
Retro Gaming
Not to be outdone by ChatGPT, Microsoft Copilot humiliates itself in Atari 2600 chess showdown
Windows
Windows 8.1 graphics get bit-crushed into working in 40-year-old EGA graphics mode
Handheld Gaming
Modder builds gaming handheld powered by an RTX 4090 laptop GPU and Intel i9-14900HX
PC Building
Desperate PC DIYer appeals for help after spending $20,000 on a build that doesn't work despite returning multiple parts
CPUs
Enthusiast builds a fully functional CPU from old memory chips
Gaming PCs
Fully working gaming PC fished out from a dumpster and rehabbed
CPUs
Chip collector showcases 'rarest x86 CPU' in their hoard
Handheld Gaming
GPD Win 5 handheld soars above the competition with Strix Halo inside
Handheld Gaming
DIYer creates the PC gaming handheld of your widest dreams
Video Games
PC Gaming
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes — bug that crashes the game when gametic value hits 2,147,483,647 ticks likely to blame
News
By
Zak Killian
published
17 September 2025
The crash isn't a surprise nor is it likely to happen by accident, but it's nice to know the world still follows rules.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Zenimax/Id Software)
Released in December of 1993 after an unbelievable amount of hype among PC gamers hooked up to the then-novel Internet, DOOM codified the standards of the nascent first-person shooter genre and was so popular that "Doom clone" was the way we described first-person shooters for years after its release. Gamers have put millions, if not billions of hours, into the title in the nearly 32 years since its launch, thanks to a virtual cornucopia of mods and user levels, but it's pretty unlikely that many of them have left the game running for upwards of two years straight. At least one person did, though, and the result is... that it crashed.Posting at LenOwO, site admin Minki remarks that they have reproduced the expected crash by loading WinDOOM on what appears to be an ASUS MyPal A620 pocket PC from 2003 running the then-novel Windows Mobile on an Intel XScale ARMv5 SoC. Minki says that the device was modified to use a "DIY 18650 [lithium cell] based UPS which was itself connected to the USB port of my router for a constant 5V supply." They left the system running and mostly forgot about it until yesterday, when they noticed a pop-up appearing on the device and complaining of an application crash:
The crash, in the ASUS MyPal's Windows Mobile 2003 operating system. (Image credit: minki/LenOwO)Like most source ports of the era, WinDOOM is based on the original source code release from 1997, and so it reproduces most features — and most bugs — of the original game. Like most large commercial software projects, DOOM has numerous known bugs even in its final 1.9 release. Among them is a curious quirk where, when playing back "demo" files internally, usually for the game's "attract" loop, the "gametic" value does not reset upon starting a new demo playback. This value is used for tracking game timing for various purposes, and it increments at a rate of 35 Hz, or 35 times per second, independent of the game's render loop.
You may like
Doom runs surprisingly well on Anker Prime Charger
Windows 95 on a PlayStation 2 kind of works — but this modded PS2 couldn’t play Doom
DOOM multiplayer tribute gets coded in 'pure SQL' and runs at 30FPS
It doesn't take even high school-level math to figure out that the gametic value never resetting will eventually result in an enormous value over time. Principal DOOM engine coder John Carmack was surely aware of this when he programmed it, but he likely reasoned that it simply didn't matter because the value is stored as a signed 32-bit integer. That means that it can reach a maximum value of 2,147,483,647 ticks before rolling over. Integer overflow behavior is undefined in C, but on x86 PCs it always results in a roll-over to the maximum negative value of -2,147,483,647. Unsurprisingly, the game doesn't handle this very gracefully, which is to say it crashes, at least on Windows Mobile 2003.
Of course, there are many other ways to crash DOOM, such as loading an invalid level. (Image credit: GitHub/AXDOOMER)At 35 ticks per second, it takes about 1.95 years to overflow the gametic value. That's a bit less than Minki's estimate, but who knows how long the ASUS PDA sat before they noticed the error message on screen; from the photo, it doesn't look like the 22-year-old pocket computer gets a lot of attention. It's also possible that Doom4CE, the Windows CE port of WinDoom that Minki was likely using, reduces the game tick rate to 30 Hz for better frame pacing and reduced hardware demands; this was common in the console ports of DOOM, such as the Jaguar and Super NES versions. If that's the case, it would take around 2.26 years to overflow the gametic value, closer to the stated 2.5.Whatever the case, the takeaway is this: don't leave DOOM running for two years — or any game, probably, at least if it's a game client and not a dedicated server. Other thoughts provoked by Minki's experiment include both an appreciation for scientific rigor (experimental testing of even irrelevant conclusions) and the clever re-use of "junk" hardware. That appears to be a theme of the Len0w0 boards, so kudos to that gang for doing what nobody else bothered to do.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (0)
Zak KillianContributorZak is a freelance contributor to Tom's Hardware with decades of PC benchmarking experience who has also written for HotHardware and The Tech Report. A modern-day Renaissance man, he may not be an expert on anything, but he knows just a little about nearly everything.
Read more
Doom runs surprisingly well on Anker Prime Charger
Windows 95 on a PlayStation 2 kind of works — but this modded PS2 couldn’t play Doom
DOOM multiplayer tribute gets coded in 'pure SQL' and runs at 30FPS
AMD Threadripper Pro 9995WX can run 400 copies of Doom or eight instances of Crysis simultaneously
3D Pinball bug allowed game to run at 5,000 FPS
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
Latest in PC Gaming
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam
GPU sales skyrocketed 27% last quarter
Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions from next year
Gearbox CEO channels inner Claptrap, offers himself up as personal tech support over rampant Borderlands 4 PC performance issues
Official Borderlands 4 GPU setting recommendations peg 4K performance with the RTX 5090 at 60 FPS, with DLSS and frame generation enabled
Latest in News
Sony unveils first-ever wireless desktop speakers for PC gamers with planar magnetic drivers
Intel reportedly raising prices on ever-popular Raptor Lake chips
Intel taps Apple for potential investment, says report
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.