I finally found a pair of earbuds that will record and transcribe my calls - for free | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
I finally found a pair of earbuds that will record and transcribe my calls - for free
The Oso AI Earbuds won't replace your main drivers for music, but the GPT-5-powered transcription and call recording features are quite good.
Written by
Kyle Kucharski, EditorEditor
Sept. 20, 2025 at 12:45 a.m. PT
Oso AI Earbuds
ZDNET's key takeaways The Oso AI earbuds are available for $249.They record calls, meetings, and conversations, and generate accurate transcripts and AI summaries.They're pricey, some features are behind a premium tier, and without ANC, they won't replace your primary pair of earbuds. View now at Oso Best headphone deals of the week
Apple AirPods Max ANC Wireless Headphones (USB-C Charging, Blue):  $500 (save $50)
Soundcore Life Q20 Hybrid Active Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $40 (save $20)
Beats Studio Pro Wireless Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $250 (save $101)
Sony WH-1000XM4 Wireless Noise Cancelling Over-Ear Headphones:  $278 (save $70)
Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless ANC Over-Ear Headphones (Black):  $300 (save $80) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Earbuds aren't all about playing the best music, anymore. Productivity-minded earbuds are a thing -- sacrificing some audio quality for rich integrations with videoconferencing software or AI-powered transcription features.
I recently reviewed another pair like this: the Epos Adapt E1 earbuds, which are optimized for video calls, and I praised their handy gestures. But the latest productivity pair I've been using is the Oso AI earbuds, a pair specifically designed for work to transcribe and summarize calls.Also: I replaced my AirPods for an unlikely alternative at work - here's why it's my new favorite Oso's earbuds are poweed by GPT-5 to take note of your meetings, phone calls, or even face to face conversations and record them, transcribe them, provide summaries, and translations through the integrated AI by Laxis' AI meeting notetaker.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Oso AI Earbuds These earbuds are fantastic at recording phone calls and meetings.
details
View at Oso The earbuds themselves are feature 13mm dynamic drivers, a dual beamforming microphone, and support for Bluetooth 5.2. Physically, the plastic case and shiny earbuds don't exactly scream premium, but they don't feel low-end, either. The case has something unique though: a touchscreen display. Tapping the display shows the time and date, and swiping through the screens shows a host of different features and settings. Volume, brightness, the EQ, playback controls, etc. What's really helpful, though, is the battery information, which displays each bud's percentage and the case. When the case is idle or if you open it to put the buds in, an animated face appears to look around, squint at you, or sometimes give you heart eyes if you tap it. My guess is that the brand wanted to personify the earbuds' as an "AI Assistant" that jumps in to help you when you need it.
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETThe touchscreen on the earbuds case doesn't exactly cause usability problems, but handling it does result in menu activation, occasionally skipping tracks, or changing a setting just from pulling the case out of your pocket. It's one of those things that sounds good on paper but in practice isn't for everyone. Note that you can turn it off in the settings, though. As far as the features go, the recording capabilities on the earbuds are rather robust. I tried them out in a few different meetings and the transcripts it generated were about as accurate as any other AI transcription feature you'll find. The summarization feature was also as accurate, and surprisingly fast at generation. Also: I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gapRecording phone calls is one of the key features here, since this used to be a rather tricky thing to do. Recorded call quality was excellent, and it couldn't be easier to activate in the app. Another thing to note here is that although the Oso user will here a "Recording start" voice notification, there is only a subtle sound effect the caller will hear at the recording start. In the Oso app, you'll find all your recordings in one place under the Conversation tab. Clicking into a recording will pull up the written transcript with the audio playback the bottom. Scrolling through the audio timeline will automatically adjust to that part of the transcript so you can follow along. This is also where you can fire up the summary feature, and have the app generate a well-formatted overview of the conversation, meeting, or phone call, complete with bullet points and action items that looks very similar to what you'd see with Google Gemini. When it comes to sharing, you can just copy and paste from the app into Slack, email, or text messaging.
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETThese features are great, and are what the majority of users will engage with, but the LaxisChat -- which lets you interface with the chatbot to ask questions about the recorded content -- is behind a paywall. In fact, the app is rife with prompts to upgrade your membership to a premium tier, with a progress bar that shows you just how much room you have left for audio storage with the free membership. You get quite a lot of storage for free, though: 300 minutes of monthly transcription and AI summaries, and 1000 minutes of cloud storage for your recordings. Also: These unusual earbuds were the surprise of the year for me - why they sound so goodIf you want to interact with several recorded transcripts and interviews, I could see the membership being useful, but keep in mind that a lot of these features can be found in other places, like on a Google Chromebook Plus using Gemini, Apple Intelligence on a MacBook, or an AI-packed Android like the Samsung Z Fold 7. The usefulness if the Oso earbuds lies in the app's ability to keep everything in one place, but at $119/year, the premium tier is not exactly cheap. Especially on top of the cost of the earbuds themselves, which run for $249. Again, this is pricey for a product of this caliber. It's the same price as Apple's brand-new AirPods Pro 3, a top-tier pair of buds with ANC and many of the same AI integrations. Also: The best earbuds of 2025: Expert tested and reviewedWhile we're on the topic of ANC, I should mention that the Oso buds claim to have "smart noise cancellation", which likely refers to treating audio on calls, but don't have active noise cancellation that will dim out ambient noise. In that sense, they won't replace high-end earbuds for most folks. For example, the Oso earbuds didn't stand a chance on the subway here in New York, my music being completely drowned out by the ambient noise. To be fair, though, that's not exactly what they're made for. These are the earbuds you pop in when you have an important meeting, phone call, or lecture, and you want to record every word both in audio and text. ZDNET's buying adviceThe Oso AI Assistant Earbuds are great for anyone who has a need to record, transcribe, and summarize conversations, lectures, or meetings. The corresponding app houses all of these features in one place, and the summaries it provides are comparable to other leading AI-powered platforms. The call recording feature is particularly nice, and journalists in particular will love having access to this feature, which does not sit behind the premium tier. For these transcription and summarization features, which are often services associated with memberships, the $249 price of the earbuds is easily justified. But if you're looking for a pair of earbuds that have booming bass and ANC, these are not what you want. The Oso earbuds will play your music, but they're designed to record, summarize, and transcribe dialogue, and they do it well. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
The Nothing Ear 3 have a clever feature I wish my other earbuds had - and they're less than $180
These $15 accessories turned my AirPods into my ideal workout headphones
These budget open-ear headphones just got cheaper, plus get a free Anker charger - here's how
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use