This midrange Sony soundbar beat out my expensive Sonos setup - here's how | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
This midrange Sony soundbar beat out my expensive Sonos setup - here's how
Sony's Bravia Theater System 6 may not have all the exciting features as its more expensive sibling, but it doesn't skimp on sound.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 5:38 a.m. PT
Sony Bravia Theater System 6
ZDNET's key takeaways The Bravia Theater System 6 consists of a center channel soundbar, two rear speakers, and an external subwoofer for $800. It offers great sound, in-app Bravia audio features, and a simple user experience. Without Wi-Fi connectivity, many wireless streaming options are unavailable, but the movie and TV watching experience remains unchanged $798 at Walmart$798 at B&H Photo-Video$798 at Crutchfield more buying choices Best portable projector deals of the week
Anker Nebula Capsule 3 Laser 1080p Wi-Fi Mini Projector:  $900 (save $800)
Anker Nebula Mars 3 Air 1080p Portable Projector:  $470 (save $130)
Xgimi MoGo 2 Pro 1080p Wi-Fi Portable Projector With Android TV:  $320 (save $180)
Anker Nebula Mars 3 1080p Outdoor Portable Projector:  $780 (save $270) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.A soundbar is a must-have to accompany your TV -- your TV's speakers won't cut it. Even if you think you don't need one, you'll never go back once you get one. Trust me. However, a soundbar only gets better when it has rear speakers and a subwoofer working alongside it. Although some enthusiasts may encourage you to assemble your own home theater, you can buy one in a box.Also: The best soundbars of 2025: Expert tested and recommendedYou don't need to pay over $1,000 for a decent home theater in a box, although a cheaper system will omit some premium features. A midrange option like Sony's Bravia Theater System 6 is a solid option for people who want to upgrade their TV without going over the top.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Sony Bravia Theater System 6 The Bravia Theater System 6 is a solid theater-in-a-box for Sony fans who want elevated audio in their living room without extra software features.
details
View at Sony The System 6 is not a flagship soundbar, but it's not necessarily for beginners, either. The system consists of a center channel bar, two rear speakers, one external subwoofer, and all the necessary wires and connectivity boxes.Unlike Sony's flagship Bravia home theater products, the System 6 lacks Wi-Fi connectivity and relies on wired connections for power. The System 6's lack of Wi-Fi means it's incompatible with wireless streaming options like AirPlay, Spotify Connect, or Google Cast. Also: I was struggling to hear TV dialogue until this soundbar fixed everything for cheapAlthough this system lacks Wi-Fi wireless streaming, Sony fitted it with its Digital Sound Enhancement Engine to enhance the sound quality of compressed audio via Bluetooth streaming. The System 6 is compatible with wireless streaming via Bluetooth, and the main soundbar includes an optical input for a host of Dolby Digital audio formats. The soundbar's HDMI eARC input is responsible for accessing Dolby Digital audio formats, Dolby Atmos, and DTS:X spatial audio formats.
The System 6's external subwoofer. Jada Jones/ZDNETBack to the lack of Wi-Fi -- its absence means you'll have to update the System 6 the old-school way. Instead of an in-app, over-the-air update, you'll need to download the software update to a flash drive, plug it into the soundbar, and upload the updated software.However, if wireless streaming isn't on your list of must-haves, the System 6 performs well at delivering big sound for movie and TV watching. The system's star is the external subwoofer. Once you lug it to your desired location, it brings everything together. The sub is enormous, weighing in at 25 pounds with a 15-inch cabinet.Also: I compared my Sonos Arc Ultra with an unlikely soundbar rival, and it went down to the wireThe System 6's rear speakers are wired and must be plugged into the included amp box for connectivity. Once everything is plugged in, Sony's Bravia Connect app will help you get the System 6 up and running.
One of the System 6's rear speakers. Jada Jones/ZDNETThe System 6's 10 speaker lineup supports a 5.1 or 7.1-channel configuration, notably without dedicated upfiring speakers. This soundbar supports Sony's virtual surround technology, which is a solid option for people with high ceilings, since upfiring speakers need a ceiling to bounce sound from.Watching a Monday Night Football game with the System 6 was nothing short of a good time. The subwoofer gets plenty deep, and the main soundbar clearly replicated the announcers' play-by-play commentary. Even better, there was one particularly excited fan in the crowd whose constant cheering from the right rear speaker made me feel like I was in US Bank Stadium with the traveling Atlanta Falcons fans.Also: I did not expect this JBL soundbar to outperform pricier models by Sonos and Bose like thisSystem 6 is compatible with Sony's Night Mode, which decreases bass and clears dialogue at lower volumes, and Voice Mode, which enhances dialogue. Additional dialogue enhancement technology is available to users with select Bravia TVs.ZDNET's buying adviceAt $800, the Sony Bravia Theater System 6 is a capable theater-in-a-box, best suited for people who don't want a system with all of the latest bells and whistles, but still want great performance. It's a bit of a monster to unpack and set up, but once the System 6 is going, it's incredibly straightforward. The System 6 lacks Wi-Fi; therefore, desirable wireless streaming options aren't available. Still, if you believe soundbars are strictly for watching TV and movies, then the missing Wi-Fi connectivity shouldn't be a pressing issue.High-performing theaters-in-a-box are typically $200 to $400 more than the System 6, and if you have a compatible Bravia TV, choosing the System 6 is a no-brainer. However, if you want an even higher-performing soundbar, consider the flagship Sony Bravia Theater Bar 9. If permanently wired rear speakers aren't your vibe, but you still want immersive surround sound, consider the JBL Bar 1000MK2. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
Can't hear TV dialogue? This portable soundbar solved my audio problems for cheap
You can buy Hisense's 136-inch Micro LED TV for $20,000 off right now - how the deal works
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use