4 Best Keto Meal Delivery Services We Tested: Get Healthy, Low-Carb Food Delivered via Our Top Picks - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessNutrition Meal Kits
4 Best Keto Meal Delivery Services We Tested: Get Healthy, Low-Carb Food Delivered via Our Top Picks
Having low-carb meals and ingredients on hand can help you stick to the keto diet. Here are the top keto meal services we tested.
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Article updated on September 8, 2025 at 8:46 AM PDT
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Meal kits have become cheaper and more flexible to customers lately, with Blue Apron dropping its subscription requirement altogether. Meal delivery services are also now better suited to those with special dietary needs, including folks following the keto diet. Going keto by cutting carbs has been shown to help people shed unwanted weight and boost energy, when done in moderation and under the guidance of a doctor.
Our Picks
Best prepared keto meal service
Factor 75
Jump to details
See at Factor 75
Jump to details
Best keto meal kits Green Chef
Jump to details
See at Green Chef
Jump to details
Best splurge keto meal delivery Pete's Real Food
Jump to details
See at Pete's Paleo
Jump to details
Best keto meal kits for families Home Chef
Jump to details
See at Home Chef
Jump to details
Table of Contents
4 Best Keto Meal Delivery Services We Tested: Get Healthy, Low-Carb Food Delivered via Our Top Picks
What is the best keto meal delivery service overall?
Recent updates
Best prepared keto meal service
Best keto meal kits
Best splurge keto meal delivery
Best keto meal kits for families
Best keto meal delivery services compared
Other keto meal delivery services we tried
Factors to consider when choosing a keto meal service
Why you should trust us
How we test keto meal kits
Keto meal delivery FAQ
Keto meal kits are easy to love in 2025. David Watsky/CNETTo follow the low-carb diet, it's imperative to plan your meals, read labels and shop extra purposefully. This can all be made easier with keto meal delivery service that drops premade low-carb meals or the ingredients to make them. We've evaluated popular brands with a wide selection of recipes, customization options and loads of low-carb options to find the best keto meal delivery services in 2025.What is the best keto meal delivery service overall?We chose Factor 75 as our top pick for its all-organic, low-carb meals inspired by comfort foods, making it easier for newcomers. Green Chef is another great, albeit pricier, option for healthier meals. Recent updatesJune 11, 2025: Removed ButcherBox as "best meat subscription for keeping keto" to stick to meal kits and prepared meals. Removed Fresh N Lean as the "best vegan keto meal delivery" because the company is no longer in business.
David Watsky/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
David Watsky/CNET
Best prepared keto meal service
Factor 75
8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Large selection of healthy, keto meals with 15 grams of net carbs or less
The food is mostly solid
Fairly affordable at $11-14 per serving
Offers seven different diets
Free shipping on first order
Takes only 2 minutes in microwave
Dietician-approved
Cons
Fewer interesting recipes can lead to food fatigue
Some unnecessary packaging
No vegan/vegetarian meals
Shipping costs $10.99 after first order
Only offers single serving
Why we like it: Factor offers a keto meal delivery plan for customers who are looking to follow a low-carb diet. The Factor keto meal delivery plan includes breakfast, lunch and dinner options that are all low in carbohydrates and high in healthy fats. Who is it best for: Factor's weekly keto menu features fewer bold recipes and flavors and more comfort-style food such as burgers, grilled chicken and meatloaf, making it a good choice for picky eaters or those with a less adventurous palate. All of Factor's keto meals are made with mostly organic, non-GMO ingredients and are free from gluten, soy and artificial preservatives. In addition to a low carb count, Factor keto meals are also designed to be low in calories to aid in weight loss.Who should not get it: These keto meals are 15 grams of net carbs or less, so if that is not the keto diet you're following, another service might be better. Also, Factor 75 only offers single servings, so couples or families should choose a different service.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Factor 75
Specs & Configurations
Meal type
PreparedMeals per week
6-18Price per serving
$11-14Servings available
SingleDiets
High protein, calorie smart, keto, carb conscious, fiber-filled, GLP-1 support, flexitarianDietary certifications
Dietician-approvedDelivery frequency
WeeklyShipping cost
Free for the first delivery, then $10.99Prep time range
2 minutes in microwave Score Breakdown
Freshness
9
Taste/results
8
Value
7
Recipe variety
8
Healthiness
8
Add to compare
Green Chef
Photo Gallery 1/1
Green Chef
Best keto meal kits
Green Chef
8.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
Most inventive keto recipes of any service with 20 grams or less of net carbs
High-quality ingredients that are certified organic
Offers eight different diets
Prep time is estimated at 30 minutes
Midrange at $12 per serving
Cons
Another $10.99 for shipping after first delivery
Can only get up to 4 meals per week
No single serving available
Why we like it: Green Chef is one of the healthiest meal kit delivery services and caters to an array of designer diets including a keto meal plan for folks looking to cut carbs. With a Green Chef meal kit subscription, you'll find creative keto meals.Who is it best for: A bevy of chef-created recipes -- at least four keto options per week -- coupled with Green Chef's high-quality, mostly USDA organic ingredients make for a pricier subscription, but Green Chef is worth it for those seeking healthy meal kits delivered each week.Who should not get it: Green Chef's keto meals are 20 grams or less of net carbs, so another service may be better if that's too high for your diet. The company also doesn't offer single servings and you can only get up to four meals per week.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Green Chef
Specs & Configurations
Meal type
Meal kitsMeals per week
2-4Price per serving
$12Servings available
2-6Diets
Keto, Mediterranean, protein-packed, calorie smart, plant-based, quick and easy, gluten-free, gut and brain healthDietary certification
CCOF-certified organic, USDA organic, Gluten-Free Validation through the Gluten Intolerance GroupDelivery frequency
WeeklyShipping cost
Free for the first delivery, then $10.99Prep time range
30-45 minutes Score Breakdown
Taste/results
7
Value
7
Ease of recipes
8
Recipe variety
7
Healthiness
9
Learn more
Green Chef review
Add to compare
Pete's Real Food
Photo Gallery 1/1
Pete's Real Food
Best splurge keto meal delivery
Pete's Real Food
9
/10
SCORE
Pros
Food is all tasty and well-prepared
Good for keto and paleo eaters
Ships nationwide, including Alaska and Hawaii
Only requires 3 minutes in the microwave
Cons
Expensive at $15-21
Shipping is around $40
Only 5 meals per week on keto diet
Only single serving available
Meal plans and pricing are a little confusing
No dietary certifications listed
Why we like it: The paleo and keto diets have a lot in common, but there are some important distinctions too. If you're more inclined to keep to a paleo plan that allows for healthy foods that may also have a high carb count, like carrots and sweet potatoes, then I'd recommend Pete's Real Food prepared keto meals. You can still order plenty of low-carb, keto-friendly meals through Pete's Real Food, but it's not the foundational diet plan for this meal delivery service. I tried several of the service's healthy options loaded with protein and healthy fats and I was entirely impressed. A slow-cooked pork shoulder with sweet potatoes and celery was tender, with great flavor. Another win was the moist Mediterranean chicken thigh dinner with salty olives, served alongside spaghetti squash and cauliflower. This is thoughtfully prepared and healthy food made with quality paleo-friendly ingredients.Who is it best for: I would recommend Pete's Real Food for those who are more inclined to keep a paleo diet. For those looking to save time on cooking, these prepared meals are also great because they require about 3 minutes in the microwave.Who should not get it: Pete's Real Food is expensive at $13-18 per serving with shipping around $40 (depending on your location). You can also only get five meals per week on the keto diet with only a single serving available. No dietary certifications are listed.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Pete's Paleo
Specs & Configurations
Meal type
PreparedMeals per week
5Price per serving
$15-21Servings available
SingleDiets
Paleo, keto, autoimmune protocol (AIP), chef curatedDietary certifications
N/ADelivery frequency
Every 1-4 weeksShipping cost
Around $40, but depends on locationPrep time range
About 3 minutes in microwave Score Breakdown
Freshness
9
Taste/results
9
Value
8
Recipe variety
9
Healthiness
10
Add to compare
Home Chef
Photo Gallery 1/1
Home Chef
Best keto meal kits for families
Home Chef
8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Six keto-friendly meals per week with 15g net carbs or less
Offers up to six servings
Lots of recipes for kids and picky eaters
Midrange at $10 per serving
Offers nine different diets
Cons
Some meals are a bit boring
Too much plastic used in packaging
No dietary certifications
Shipping is $10.99 after free first delivery
Prep time can go up to 60 minutes
Does not deliver to Alaska or Hawaii
Why we like it: If you're looking to make keto dinners at home, Home Chef has the most keto-friendly meal kits of any service I tried, and that makes it an excellent choice for those keeping to a low-carb keto diet. Home Chef's Carb Conscious meal plan starts at about $8 a serving and there are typically around 14 meal kits to choose from in any given week containing less than 15 grams of carbs per serving. Who is it best for: One great feature Home Chef offers is that you can swap or double the protein in any meal and since keto diet followers are all about that protein, it makes finding the right low-carb meals each week that much easier. Home Chef also has oven-ready keto-friendly meal options.The company offers up to six servings and six keto-friendly meals per week, making it great for families. Who should not get it: If 15g of net carbs or less is not part of your keto diet, this service is not for you. Some meals also have a longer prep time of 60 minutes, but that's not the case for all.
... Show more
Get it now
See at Home Chef
Specs & Configurations
Meal type
Meal kitsMeals per week
2-6Price per serving
$10Servings available
2-6Diets
Protein-packed, calories-conscious, carb-conscious, fiber-rich, keto-friendly, Mediterranean, gluten-smart, pescatarian, vegetarianDietary certifications
N/ADelivery frequency
WeeklyShipping cost
Free for the first delivery, then $10.99Prep time range
15-60 minutes Score Breakdown
Taste/results
7
Value
9
Ease of recipes
8
Recipe variety
9
Healthiness
7
Add to compareBest keto meal delivery services compared
Brand Meal typeMeals per weekPrice per serving Servings availableDietsDietary certificationsDelivery frequency Shipping cost Prep time range CNET scoreFactor 75 Prepared6-18$11-$14SingleHigh protein, calorie smart, keto, carb conscious, fiber-filled, GLP-1 support, flexitarianDietician-approvedWeeklyFree for the first delivery, then $10.992 minutes in microwave8Green Chef Meal kits3-4$122-6Keto, Mediterranean, protein-packed, calorie smart, plant-based, quick and easy, gluten-free, gut and brain healthCCOF-certified organic, USDA organic, Gluten-Free Validation through the Gluten Intolerance GroupWeeklyFree for the first delivery, then $10.9930-45 minutes8.4Pete's Real Food Prepared5$15-$21SinglePaleo, keto, autoimmune protocol (AIP), chef curatedn/aEvery 1-4 weeksAround $40, but depends on locationAbout 3 minutes in microwave9Home Chef Meal kits2-6$102-6Protein-packed, calories-conscious, carb-conscious, fiber-rich, keto-friendly, Mediterranean, gluten-smart, pescatarian, vegetariann/aWeeklyFree for the first delivery, then $10.9915-60 minutes8
Other keto meal delivery services we tried
ModifyHealth: This healthy meal delivery service specializes in low-FODMAP to help those with IBS but also offers a low-carb meal plan. The food was tasty and the free health counseling was useful, but it's a bit more expensive than some others on our list.Snap Kitchen: I liked Snap Kitchen meals but the portions were a bit small and the service still has a limited delivery area.Territory Foods: The portions from this meal delivery service were far too small considering how expensive they are -- as much as $23 a meal -- but they did taste OK. If you're looking for some serious portion control for weight loss and to cut down on calories, this might be a good option. Otherwise, it doesn't seem worth the money. FlexPro: These frozen keto meals were some of the worst I tried and I would not recommend the service.BistroMD: These meals are intended to promote weight loss, but the cost is high, and the flavors weren't good enough to justify the price. Factors to consider when choosing a keto meal service
Meal format preferences The first big decision you'll make is whether you want meal kits, which provide ingredients and a recipe but require some prep and cooking, or prepared meals, which are fully cooked and ready to heat and eat. Meal kits will demand more of your energy and time (around 30 minutes of prep), but they'll also cost a little less per serving. Prepared meals require almost no time and energy, other than what it takes to heat them (usually a few minutes), but they typically run a few bucks more per serving. Prepared meals may be better for beginning cooks, and meal kits can work best for beginning to experienced cooks.
We also tested Fresh N Lean, but it's no longer in business. Fresh n' LeanBudget and valueAfter you've made your choice between meal kits or prepared meals, you'll want to find a service within your budget. Price per serving ranges from $11 to $17. There are meal kit services with basic menus and no-frills recipes for meals as cheap as $11 a serving. Pricier services include recipes with more exotic ingredients, high-end cuts of meat and organic produce, and those meals can cost as much as $17 a serving. For this list, the midrange price is around $12. Elsewhere on CNET, we've outlined all the best cheap meal delivery services right now.Shipping is usually free for the first order but after that costs $11 on average. More expensive prepared meal services can charge up to $40 for shipping, depending on your location. It's important to note that most meal kits and prepared meal delivery services offer you the option to skip a week and to pause or cancel your subscription. You can typically make these adjustments in your account settings or on your app. Keto strictness levelThere are different levels to keeping keto. One decision you'll want to make is whether to choose a meal service or meal plan that includes only or mostly keto or one, like Green Chef, that has options for nonketo meals. You'll also want to pay attention to the net carbs per meal and macro ratios to ensure they fit with your specific diet.If dietary certifications are important to you -- such as USDA organic or certified gluten free -- make sure the service you choose has these certifications. Or simply make sure the ingredients are grass-fed or wild-caught, if that's important to you.
Most meal kit services offer a range of keto recipes each week. David Watsky/CNETMeals per week and frequencyLastly, you'll want to home in on exactly how much food you'll want sent to you per week (aka meals per week). If you can't imagine yourself cooking more than twice per week, don't order more than two meal kits, because they typically won't last more than a week in the fridge. Also, think about serving options by considering the number of people you're cooking for each week.Most prepared meals either arrive frozen or can be frozen after unboxing. That means it's less of an issue if you order too many meals on your first go around. Most services allow you to change the number of meals or servings in your plan even after you've started.With nearly every service, the more meals your order per delivery, the cheaper it is per meal.  Why you should trust us
Over the past 5 years, our experts have tested various services by making more than 75 meals from kits and tasting over 100 prepared meals. All that has helped us put together our list of the best in 2025.  How we test keto meal kits
Meal kits are judged on several factors as we cook our way through a box of recipes. David Watsky/CNETTesting meal kits for CNET means rolling up our sleeves and cooking at least one week's worth of meals from each service, often more. How each meal kit tastes, how easy it was to prepare and the portion sizes are all considered. To learn more, we have an in-depth look at how we test meal kits here at CNET.Taste and quality evaluationOne of the main factors we test for is taste and the quality of the ingredients. We also pay attention to texture, how fresh the ingredients are, where they come from and if the ingredients have any certifications, such as USDA organic. Convenience and usabilityFor this part of our testing, we consider how long it takes to prepare or heat a meal. We pay attention to heating and cooking instructions in terms of clarity, details offered and what level of cooking experience may be required. Also, is packaging cumbersome, easy to access or sustainable?Customer experienceWe evaluate the website and how easy it is to navigate along by determining how easy it is to pause, cancel or change your order at any given time. Other factors we pay attention to are how easy the ordering process is and if delivery is reliable. Keto meal delivery FAQ
What's the most popular keto meal delivery?
Green Chef and Factor 75 are some of the most popular keto meal delivery services. Not all low-carb meals are created equal, so we subscribed to a few of the most popular keto plans to separate the delicious meals from the tragic. Whether you're trying to eat keto and organic or you're keen on low-carb versions of comfort food classics made with fresh ingredients, there's a healthy, tailored meal delivery service out there for you.
Show more
Is the keto diet healthy?
Many health professionals will tell you the best way to lose weight is by eating a balanced diet and exercising regularly, but trimming carbs, particularly empty ones, can help shed unwanted pounds in a shorter period. If you're like me, the thought of constantly cooking, especially diet food, can be a turn-off to healthy living as a whole. For more on the diet, read CNET's guide to the keto diet.
Show more
What is the keto diet?
Keto (short for ketogenic) started as something of a fad diet decades ago, when it was commonly referred to as the Atkins Plan or the South Beach Diet. People are drawn to keto and other low-carb programs for many reasons, such as wanting to limit their total carb count for weight loss or upping their protein intake to help build muscle or for training purposes. Many delivery services now cater to the keto diet.
Show more
Which keto meal delivery service has the most variety?
Factor 75 and Green Chef have the widest range of offerings.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen
David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week.
Read full bio
Nutrition Guides
Meal Delivery
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Hungryroot Review
EveryPlate Review
Best Vegan Meal Delivery Service
Best Vegetarian Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Best Grocery Delivery Service
Fresh N Lean Review
Blue Apron vs. Hello Fresh
Dieting Program Guides
Best Weight Loss Programs
Optavia Diet Review
Noom Diet Review
Nutrisystem Diet Review
Weight Watchers Diet Review
Noom vs. Weight Watchers
Vitamin and Supplement Guides
Best Multivitamins
Best Multivitamins for Men
Best Multivitamins for Women
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Probiotics
Best Supplements to Gain Weight
Best Vitamin Subscription
Best Vitamins for Energy
Best Vitamins and Supplements for Joint Health
Best Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.