Protect your PC from transient power spikes
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Power draw is important, but don't risk losing your PC to transient spikes
The insides of the be quiet! Dark Power Pro 13.
By
Rich Edmonds
Published Sep 18, 2025
Richard is the PC Hardware Lead at XDA and has been covering the technology industry for almost two decades. He's been building PCs since young, and when not creating content, you can often find him inside a chassis somewhere.
Sign in to your XDA account
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When planning out a
PC build or considering your next component upgrade, power draw is usually at the top of mind, ensuring your PC will have enough power to properly run all the hardware. Not having a powerful enough power supply can result in system crashes and even potential damage to components if you're not careful. It's fairly easy to work out just how much rated capacity will be required for your system build, but it's important not to tunnel vision too much on power draw and overlook other power-related factors.
Transient power spikes (sometimes referred to as power transients or voltage spikes) are short, sudden increases in electrical current or voltage that can occur within electrical circuits or on the power grid. Usually lasting just a few microseconds or one or two milliseconds at worst, these transient power spikes can prove to be deadly for PC hardware. The components inside your system are incredibly sensitive, which is why we focus so much attention on the quality of the power supply unit (PSU) providing all that clean current.
What causes transient power spikes?
Lightning strikes are your PC's kryptonite
A major contributor to power spikes is lightning strikes. Depending on the location and what is struck, a lightning strike and induce huge voltage spikes on power lines or communications infrastructure, which can then travel into buildings and damage connected hardware. But it's not always the weather, as power grid fluctuations can cause transient spikes, such as transformer failures, line breaks, and other physical problems on the network. All of this can harm the power being transmitted to your home. But then there's the potential for local transient power strikes, caused by the switching or large, power-hungry hardware and appliances. When turning on (or off) your fridge, air conditioning, or other high-power devices, this can cause voltage dips or spikes due to the sudden change in electrical load as everything attempts to balance out. Even the power supply inside your PC can generate transient spikes during system startup or shutdown. Finally, we've got electromagnetic interference (EMI) through the generation of electromagnetic pulses.
Why should I be worried about my PC?
No, but it's worth bearing in mind
I wouldn't get too worked up about what could happen to hardware plugged into your house outlets. Electricity is an incredible technology we've managed to master, but even with all our modern know-how and centuries of experience, there are still some things that are out of our control. Namely, the weather. Should you not have enough protection in place or your spike shielding fails on all levels, you could experience gradual or immediate damage to components inside your PC and other electronic devices. It could be as little as your
CPU or
GPU not working as well as it should, or at worst, your PC outright refusing to boot at all. Hardware inside your PC is incredibly sensitive to voltage fluctuations, which is why the PSU has so much technology packed into it to ensure the power delivered out the other end is as stable as possible. Should your system be running at the time a spike hits your home, there's even a risk that a component could overheat, causing an electrical fire. Is it worth shutting some devices down during lightning storms? Absolutely, but I don't recommend worrying too much about all this without cause for concern.
The national grids in most countries are stable and robust enough to handle power issues before they even hit your home.
How to protect your PC (and everything else)
Ensure adequate protection is in place
The best way to protect your PC and other hardware from transient power spikes (and other power phenomena) is to implement various protections, usually in the form of strips, fuses, and an
uninterruptible power supply (UPS). Your consumer unit includes various protections by default, depending on where you're located. In the UK, we have strict guidelines that electricians must follow when loading up consumer units with circuits. These are vital for taking the brunt of any notable spikes, but transient spikes can pass through.
That's where a UPS and power extension sockets with surge protection come into play. You must use some form of surge protection between the power outlet on the wall and your PC. Even more so for servers and network-attached storage (NAS) running on the circuit. These devices absorb and direct excess voltage to ground, protecting everything plugged into the supported outlets, and are brilliant at handling the smaller power issues, such as short-term transient spikes. A UPS takes it to another level with battery backup power. It may also be a good idea not to overload an outlet or surge-protected extension strip with too many high-power devices. I wouldn't suggest running a Proxmox server and gaming PC on the same strip, for example. Separating them can help not only mitigate any potential problems, but should one strip be overwhelmed, you won't risk both systems. PCs, servers, and other hardware likely have built-in protections too, including voltage regulation within the PSU, though external protection is still highly recommended. Most importantly, purchase a well-reviewed and reliable PSU from a reputable brand. It may be easy to poke fun at no-name units found inside some desktop systems, but these may not offer the same protections as their more expensive counterparts. And like I said, PSUs themselves can cause transient power spikes, so do you want to run the risk of your own PC damaging itself? Never cheap out on the power supply, and you shouldn't have any problems. I've never lost a system due to power problems, largely because I always invest in adequate protection.
Other Hardware
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
I'm using my home's Unbound DNS to block trackers no matter where I am, here's how
Sep 15, 2025
3 reasons to pick Cronos: The New Dawn over Hell is Us this month, and 3 things the latter does better
Sep 16, 2025
Wi-Fi 7 is exciting, but here's why you shouldn't buy a new router (yet)
Sep 16, 2025
XMP/EXPO profiles aren’t just for faster speeds; here are 3 other advantages I get
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I set up my own NTP server to keep all of my devices totally synchronized
I swapped Trello for Focalboard on my NAS, and it's so much better
5 BIOS settings gamers forget to change
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.