Doctors say Trump's advice on hep B shot is wrong : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Doctors say Trump's advice on hep B shot is wrong It's unusual for Presidents to give medical advise. But this week President Trump told parents to delay giving their kids a hep b shot until they turn 12. Doctors say this is bad and dangerous advice.
Trump advises parents on hepatitis B vaccine. Here's why doctors say he's wrong
September 25, 20252:13 PM ET
Maria Godoy
Experts say Trump's guidance on hepatitis B vaccine and babies is dangerous
Listen
·
3:31
3:31
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5553541/nx-s1-mx-5733091" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Hepatitis B is a virus that attacks the liver and the disease has no cure. Since the U.S. started universally vaccinating newborns case rates have plummeted by 99%.
SERGII IAREMENKO/Science Photo Library RF/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
SERGII IAREMENKO/Science Photo Library RF/Getty Images
It's unusual for presidents to give out medical advice. But in a White House press briefing earlier this week, President Trump questioned the wisdom of vaccinating all newborns against hepatitis B. "There's no reason to give a baby that's almost just born hepatitis B [vaccine," Trump said. "So I would say wait until the baby is 12 years old." But pediatricians say this message is wrong. "It would be extremely dangerous and it's a totally irresponsible suggestion," says Dr. Andrew Pavia, a professor of pediatrics and medicine with the University of Utah and a pediatric and adult infectious disease specialist.
Sponsor Message
Health
CDC advisers punt on hepatitis B vaccine vote, after changing guidance on MMRV
Hepatitis B is a virus that attacks the liver. The disease has no cure and chronic infection can lead to serious outcomes such as liver cancer, cirrhosis and death. And the risks of these outcomes are much higher for people who get infected as infants. "About 25% of children who develop chronic hepatitis B will die of their infection," says Pavia, who is also a spokesperson for the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Before the U.S. began universally vaccinating newborns in 1991, some 18,000 children a year would become infected before the age of 10. About half were infected through mother–to-child transmission, Pavia says. Giving newborns the shot right after birth prevents the virus from taking hold. The other half of kids got infected from somewhere else. President Trump said hepatitis B is sexually transmitted — which is one means of transmission — so there's no reason to give the vaccine to a baby. But Pavia says the risks for kids are everywhere. "There have been cases of infections in daycare. There have been cases of infection on sports teams. There have been documented infections from shared toothbrushes and from shared razors," he says. The virus is found in blood, saliva, semen and other bodily fluids, even tears, and it can live on surfaces for up to seven days. A child with a wound who comes into contact with that surface – even days later — could become infected, says Dr. Anita Patel, a pediatrician and pediatric critical care physician in Washington, D.C.
Sponsor Message
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about half of the people infected with Hepatitis B don't know they have the virus, but Patel says they can still pass on the virus unwittingly. "If you have a cut, that blood could potentially get on the infant," Patel says. "And if that infant has any sort of break in their skin — as infants, frankly, frequently do — they can then get hepatitis B," says Patel.
Public Health
The MAHA plan for healthier kids includes 128 ideas, but few details
Dr. Su Wang says she suspects she got infected with hepatitis B as an infant, through her grandparents. She says they, likely got exposed through their jobs as medical workers in Taiwan. Taiwan used to have very high rates of hepatitis B infection among adults before the country began a successful national vaccination program in the 1980s. "When I was born, they came over to help, like a lot of grandparents do, and they lived with us," Wang says. "They became primary caregivers for the first month of life. And so very likely that's how I got hep B." Wang is now an internist and researcher specializing in hepatitis at Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center in New Jersey. She says it's very important to give the shot at birth. Since vaccination of newborns became routine in the U.S., case rates have plummeted by 99 percent among people age 19 and younger. "When we started doing this as universal for all kids, you saw this blanket protection that protected an entire generation of kids," Wang says.
hepatitis B
trump
kids health
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor