Tallinn offensive - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Background
Toggle Background subsection
1.1
Prelude
1.2
Soviet objectives
1.3
German objectives
1.4
Estonian objectives
2
Comparison of forces
3
Operations
4
Aftermath
Toggle Aftermath subsection
4.1
Soviet reoccupation
5
Notes
6
Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Tallinn offensive
12 languages
AzərbaycancaDeutschEestiEspañolFrançaisPortuguêsРусскийСрпски / srpskiSuomiTürkçeУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
Coordinates: 59°26′N 24°44′E﻿ / ﻿59.433°N 24.733°E﻿ / 59.433; 24.733
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Strategic offensive during WWII
59°26′N 24°44′E﻿ / ﻿59.433°N 24.733°E﻿ / 59.433; 24.733
For other military actions at Tallinn, see Battle of Tallinn.
Tallinn offensivePart of Eastern Front (World War II)Date17–26 September 1944LocationEstoniaResult
Soviet victoryBelligerents
Germany
Estonian collaborationist government
Estonian conscripts, auxiliary police, border guards and militia
Soviet Union
Estonian pro-independence troopsCommanders and leaders
Ferdinand Schörner
Leonid Govorov
Johan PitkaStrength
50,000 troops[1]50 vessels[2]
195,000 troops[3]
2,000 troops[4]vteEastern Front
Naval warfare
Baltic Sea
Black Sea
Arctic Ocean
1941
Barbarossa
Brest
Białystok–Minsk
1st Baltic
Brody
Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina
1st Smolensk
Uman
Odessa
1st Kiev
Tallinn
Leningrad
Sea of Azov
1st Kharkov
1st Crimea
Sevastopol
Rostov
Gorky
Moscow
Finland
Kerch
Chechnya
Air war 1941
1942
Lyuban
Barvenkovo–Lozovaya
Rzhev
Toropets–Kholm
Demyansk
Kholm
Bamberg
2nd Kharkov
Case Blue
Caucasus
Rzhev–Sychyovka
Sinyavino
Stalingrad
Velikiye Luki
Mars
Little Saturn
1943
Iskra
Ostrogozhsk–Rossosh
Voronezh–Kharkov
Polar Star
3rd Kharkov
Gorky Blitz
Kursk
1st Donbas
Belgorod-Kharkov
2nd Donbas
2nd Smolensk
Lenino
Dnieper
Nevel
2nd Kiev
1944
Dnieper–Carpathian
Leningrad–Novgorod
Narva
2nd Crimea
Romania
1st Jassy–Kishinev
2nd Jassy–Kishinev
Turda
Păuliș
Carei
Karelia
Bagration
Lvov–Sandomierz
Doppelkopf
Dukla Pass
2nd Baltic
Belgrade
Debrecen
Petsamo–Kirkenes
Courland
Gumbinnen
Budapest
1945
Budapest
Vistula–Oder
Western Carpathian
East Prussia
Silesia
Breslau
Solstice
East Pomerania
Lake Balaton
Moravia–Ostrava
Vienna
Bratislava–Brno
Berlin
Prague
Prague uprising
vteLeningrad and the Baltics 1941–441941
June in Lithuania
Summer War
Strategic defensive
Evacuation of Tallinn
Leningrad
Oranienbaum
Tikhvin
1942
Lyuban
Toropets–Kholm
Demyansk
Kholm
Sinyavino
1943
Iskra
Polar Star
Krasny Bor
Mga
1944
Relief of Leningrad
Narva
Karelian Isthmus
Vilnius
Šiauliai
Kaunas
Tartu
Riga
Tallinn
Moonsund Archipelago
Memel
CourlandSinyavino
vteEstonia 1944
Kingisepp-Gdov
Narva
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
March Bombing
Tallinn
Narva
Auvere
Sinimäed
Tartu
Tallinn
Porkuni
Moonsund Archipelago
Tehumardi
The Tallinn offensive (Russian: Таллинская наступательная операция) was a strategic offensive by the Red Army's 2nd Shock and 8th armies and the Baltic Fleet against the German Army Detachment Narwa and Estonian units in mainland Estonia on the Eastern Front of World War II on 17–26 September 1944. Its German counterpart was the abandonment of the Estonian territory in a retreat codenamed Operation Aster (German: Unternehmen Aster).
The Soviet offensive commenced with the Soviet 2nd Shock Army breaching the defence of the II Army Corps along the Emajõgi River in the vicinity of Tartu. The defenders managed to slow the Soviet advance sufficiently for Army Detachment Narwa to be evacuated from mainland Estonia in an orderly fashion.[5] On 18 September, the constitutional Government of Estonia captured the government buildings in Tallinn from the Germans and the city was abandoned by the German forces by 22 September. The Leningrad Front seized the capital and took the rest of mainland Estonia by 26 September 1944.
Background[edit]
Prelude[edit]
Main articles: Battle of Narva (1944), Operation Bagration, Tartu offensive, and Riga offensive (1944)
Attacks by the Leningrad Front had pushed Army Group North west of Lake Peipus, resulting in a series of operations around Narva.[2] In the south, Soviet forces had advanced towards the Baltic coast at the end of Operation Bagration the Belorussian strategic offensive (June–August 1944) against Army Group Centre.[3] The Soviet Tallinn offensive was designed as a part of the Baltic offensive to eliminate the positions of Army Group North along the Baltic.[2]
Stavka began an intricate supply and transport operation, to move the 2nd Shock Army from the Narva front to the Emajõgi river on September 5, 1944. The 25th River Boat Brigade and engineer troops were ordered by Stavka to ferry the units over Lake Peipus. Five crossings were built from the Russian settlement of Pnevo across the 2 km (1.2 mi)-wide sound of Lämmijärv to the Estonian village of Mehikoorma. Forty-six vessels worked 24 hours a day to carry 135,000 troops, 13,200 horses, 9,100 lorries, 2,183 artillery and 8,300 tons of ammunition across the lake.[6] Luftwaffe units observed the move without intervening.[7] The 2nd Shock Army acquired command over the Emajõgi front from the 3rd Baltic Front on 11 September 1944.[6]
The three Soviet Baltic Fronts launched their Riga offensive operation on 14 September, along the German 18th Army front segment from the town of Madona in Latvia to the mouth of the Väike Emajõgi river. In the Estonian section, from the Valga railway junction to Lake Võrtsjärv, the Soviet 3rd Baltic Front attacked the German XXVIII Army Corps.[2][page range too broad] The German and Estonian Omakaitse units held their positions and prevented the Army Detachment Narwa from being encircled in Estonia.[2]
Soviet objectives[edit]
The Soviet forces attempted to capture Estonia and its capital Tallinn.[2] Stavka hoped a quick breakthrough at the Emajõgi front would open a path for the armoured units to the north, thus cutting the Army Detachment Narwa off from the rest of Army Group North. The Red Army command presumed that the main direction of retreat for the German forces would be Tallinn, and concentrated their forces there in an attempt to block the roads.[8]
German objectives[edit]
Army Group North had already considered abandoning Estonia in February 1944, during the Soviet Kingisepp-Gdov offensive. A large number of units would have been freed up with changes to the front, but the Narva front continued to be defended on Hitler's orders. The German Command considered it important to maintain control over the southern shore of the Gulf of Finland to ease the situation in Finland and keep the Soviet Baltic Fleet trapped in the eastern bay of the gulf. Retaining the oil shale reserves and oil shale industry in Ida-Viru was important for economic reasons.[2]
The exit of Finland from the war on 3 September provided the political impetus for abandoning Estonia. The next day, Generaloberst Heinz Guderian suggested that it would not be possible to hold Ostland and ordered plans for the evacuation operation, codenamed Königsberg, to be drawn up. Hitler, however, declared that Ostland must not be given up at any cost, since doing so would provide support to those Finns that did not favour the new course of the government, and would influence Sweden to maintain its current foreign policy. After lunch, Guderian ordered that the Königsberg plan nevertheless be secretly initiated. On the next day, Oberst Natzmer visited the headquarters of Army Detachment Narwa to discuss details of the evacuation. On 11 September, the evacuation of Estonia was discussed in the Army Headquarters at length. On 15 September, the Commander-in-Chief of the Army Group, Generaloberst Ferdinand Schörner, requested that Guderian convince Hitler to order the evacuation of German troops from the continental part of Estonia, codenamed Operation Aster. Schörner emphasised that although the front was still holding, delaying the order would mean the units in Estonia would be trapped. Hitler agreed on 16 September.[2]
According to the plan, the main forces of Army Group Narwa had to withdraw mainly through Viljandi and Pärnu to Riga. In order to do that, II Army Corps at the Emajõgi front and XXVIII Army Corps at the Väike Emajõgi had to keep the front line stable until the Army Detachment had passed behind them. Officially, the beginning of the operation was supposed to be September 19. The retreat was to be gradual, over several lines of resistance. The withdrawal was to be backed mainly by the units consisting of Estonians, who, by the estimates of the German army command, would not have wanted to leave Estonia anyway.[8] A naval force under Vice-Admiral Theodor Burchardi began evacuating elements of the German formations along with some civilians on 17 September. The headquarters prepared a detailed plan to leave their positions at the Narva front on the night of 18–19 September.[2]
Estonian objectives[edit]
Various Estonian troops, which used men who had deserted from the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Estonian), Omakaitse militia, border defence and auxiliary police battalions, had no general planning. However, their aim was to defend the independence of Estonia.[2][8]
Comparison of forces[edit]
By the beginning of the Tallinn offensive on 17 September at the Emajõgi front, the II German Army Corps was reduced to a modest division of 4,600 men,[9] while defending against the 140,000 men of the 2nd Shock Army.[9] While the II Army Corps had practically no armoured forces, the 3rd Baltic Front deployed 300 armoured vehicles. The Red Army placed 2,569 artillery pieces along the 90-kilometre front line, pitting 137 pieces of artillery per kilometre against a practically nonexistent German artillery.[8] The 15,000 strong III SS (Germanic) Panzer Corps stood against the Soviet 8th Army numbering
55,000 troops at the Narva front.[10] The pro-independence Estonian troops numbered 2,000.[2]
Operations[edit]
The 3rd Baltic Front commenced their offensive in the early morning of 17 September. After the German II Army Corps were subjected to an artillery barrage of 132,500 shells, the three leading rifle corps crossed the Emajõgi River in the 25 km long section of the front east of Tartu and breached the defences. The 2nd Shock Army forced its way through to the German divisional headquarters and artillery positions. Only Kampfgruppe Rebane, stationed near Tartu, held their frontage,[2] albeit with heavy losses.[8] Army Detachment Narwa and XXVIII Corps, the northernmost elements of Army Group North, were at risk of getting encircled and destroyed. General Ferdinand Schörner ordered II Army Corps to abandon the defence of the Emajõgi and to move quickly around the northern tip of Lake Võrtsjärv to Latvia.[2]
Six Estonian border defence regiments, the 113th Security Regiment, and remnants of the 20th Waffen SS Division retreating from the most distant part of the Narva front in the Krivasoo swamp were blocked by the advance units of the 8th Estonian Rifle Corps and destroyed in the battles of Porkuni and Avinurme on 20 and 21 September.[8] Estonians of the Soviet rifle corps murdered their compatriots that had been taken prisoner at Porkuni and the wounded sheltering in the Avinurme Parish church.[2][8]
The defence allowed Army Detachment Narwa to escape from Estonia as the III (Germanic) SS Panzer Corps and the 11th Infantry Division abandoned their positions, unbeknownst to the Soviet 8th Army. The Soviet forces began advancing in the early morning, took Jõhvi, and by evening reached the Toila–Jõhvi–Kurtna line, also taking 63 POWs. The Panzer Corps itself declared 30 dead or MIA, and 30 wounded. On the night of 20 September, the headquarters of the Corps were near Pärnu on the southwestern coast, alongside the "Nederland", "Nordland" and the 11th Infantry Division headquarters. The "Nordland" and the 11th Infantry divisions were sent to Latvia, under the command of the 16th Army. The "Nederland" was left to organise the defence of Pärnu. On 23 September, "Nederland" dynamited the harbour and retreated to Latvia. On 24 September near Ikla on the Latvian border the rearguard of the "Nederland" carried out its final battle on Estonian ground, destroying 12–15 Soviet tanks.[2]
Soviet troops running across Freedom Square in Tallinn
Wehrmacht military personnel, the wounded, institutions and industries, prisoners and Estonian civilians were mostly evacuated by sea. The chief of evacuation for the navy was the Admiral of the Eastern Baltic Sea, Theodor Burchardi. He was mainly responsible for securing the evacuation from Tallinn and Paldiski. For this purpose, he commanded the 24th Landing Flotilla, 14th Security Flotilla, 31st Mine Trawler Flotilla, 5th Security Flotilla and 1st Evacuation Flotilla, with a total of approximately 50 small warships, launches, escort ships and other vessels.[2]
Within six days, around 50,000 troops, 20,000 civilians, 1,000 POWs and 30,000 tons of goods were removed from Estonia,[1][5] 38,000 of the military personnel by sea. In the course of the evacuation from Tallinn, the following ships suffered serious damage from Soviet Air Forces attacks: on board the Nettelbeck and Vp 1611, 8 people killed and 29 wounded; the RO-22 hit and 100 personnel killed. On 22 September 1944, the hospital ship Moero, with 1,155 refugees, wounded and crew on board, sunk in the middle of the Baltic sea with 637 dead. The evacuation by sea, despite the fact that the time for evacuation was much shorter than planned, was considered a complete success, with only 0.9% of the evacuees killed.[2]
Soviet troops riding ISU-152 self-propelled guns through Freedom Square in Tallinn
On 18 September 1944, the provisional government formed by the National Committee of the Republic of Estonia in Tallinn re-declared the independence of Estonia.[11]
Estonian military units clashed with German troops in Tallinn, seizing the state offices at Toompea. The government appealed to the Soviet Union to recognize the independence of the republic.[12]
The Government of Estonia had failed to concentrate the Estonian soldiers retreating from the Narva and Emajõgi fronts, as the units were scattered and mixed with the German detachments withdrawing towards Latvia.[8] Therefore, the government lacked significant military forces to repulse the Soviet forces concentrated around Tallinn. The units securing the national capital and the government included a command led by Rear Admiral Johan Pitka,[2] one of the former battalions of the Finnish Infantry Regiment 200 and various units of the Omakaitse, all of those under nominal command of general Jaan Maide. The government managed to establish contact with a group of Estonian SS troops retreating from Narva front, but those were dispersed in the Battle of Porkuni.
A soldier of the 8th Estonian Rifle Corps embraces his wife on the streets of Tallinn
By the time the advance units of the Leningrad Front arrived at Tallinn early on 22 September, German troops had practically abandoned the city[2] and the streets were empty.[8] The last German unit to leave Tallinn that morning was the 531st Navy Artillery Battalion. Before embarkation, all stationary artillery and armaments, special equipment, guns that could not be evacuated, ammunition, the telephone exchange, the radio broadcast house, locomotives and railroad cars, and the railway were destroyed. The Tallinn power plant was fired upon from the sea and the Old City Harbour was destroyed. The retreating German units had no combat contact with the Red Army in Tallinn,[2] only the Estonian units resisted.
Troops of the Leningrad Front seized Tallinn on 22 September. Jüri Uluots, acting President of Estonia, fled to Sweden.[13] In the following days, several pro-independence Estonian battle groups attacked the Soviet troops in Harju and Lääne counties without success.[2]
Aftermath[edit]
Main articles: Moonsund Landing Operation and Baltic offensive
The German evacuation had been carried out in an orderly fashion. Army Group North's plans had paid off and both the Soviets and the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (German High Command) was surprised and impressed by the speed of the evacuation.[5] The 8th Army went on to take the remaining West Estonian islands (Moonsund archipelago) in the Moonsund Landing Operation, an amphibious attack.[2] Overall, the Baltic offensive resulted in the expulsion of German forces from Estonia, Lithuania and a large part of Latvia.
Soviet reoccupation[edit]
Main articles: Occupation of the Baltic states, Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic, and Baltic states under Soviet rule (1944–1991)
Soviet rule of Estonia was re-established by force, and sovietisation followed, which was mostly carried out in 1944–1950. The forced collectivisation of agriculture began in 1947, and was completed after the mass deportation of Estonians in March 1949. All private farms were confiscated, and farmers were made to join the collective farms. An armed resistance movement of 'forest brothers' was active until the mass deportations. A total of 30,000 participated or supported the movement; 2,000 were killed. The Soviet authorities fighting the forest brothers suffered also hundreds of deaths. Among those killed on both sides were innocent civilians. Besides the armed resistance of the forest brothers, a number of underground nationalist schoolchildren groups were active. Most of their members were sentenced to long terms of imprisonment.
The punitive actions decreased rapidly after Joseph Stalin's death in March 1953. From 1956 to 1958, a large part of the deportees and political prisoners were allowed to return to Estonia. Political arrests and numerous other kind of crimes against humanity were committed all through the occupation period until the late 1980s. After all, the attempt to integrate Estonian society into the Soviet system failed. Although the armed resistance was defeated, the population remained anti-Soviet. This helped the Estonians to organise a new resistance movement in the late 1980s, regain their independence in 1991, and then rapidly develop a democratic society.[14]
Notes[edit]
^ a b Mitcham, S. (2007). German Defeat in the East 1944 – 45. Stackpole. p. 150.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v Toomas Hiio (2006). Combat in Estonia in 1944. In: Toomas Hiio, Meelis Maripuu, Indrek Paavle (Eds.). Estonia 1940–1945: Reports of the Estonian International Commission for the Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity. Tallinn. pp. 1035–1094.{{cite book}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)[page range too broad]
^ a b Г.Ф.Кривошеев (2001). "Россия и СССР в войнах XX века: Потери вооруженных сил". Olma-Press.
^ Toomas Hiio (2006). Combat in Estonia in 1944. In: Toomas Hiio, Meelis Maripuu, Indrek Paavle (Eds.). Estonia 1940–1945: Reports of the Estonian International Commission for the Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity. Tallinn. p. 963.{{cite book}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
^ a b c Sean M. Mcateer (2008). 500 Days: The War in Eastern Europe, 1944–1945. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: Red Lead Press. p. 273. ISBN 9781434961594.
^ a b F.I.Paulman (1980). Ot Narvy do Syrve (From Narva to Sõrve) (in Russian). Tallinn: Eesti Raamat. pp. 123–125.
^ Mart Laar. Emajõgi 1944: Teise Maailmasõja lahingud Lõuna-Eestis (Emajõgi River 1944: Battles of World War II in South Estonia) (in Estonian). Tallinn: Varrak. p. 231.
^ a b c d e f g h i Laar, Mart (2005). "Attempt made by Otto Tief's Government to restore the independence of Estonia". Estonia in World War II. Tallinn: Grenader. pp. 60–71.
^ a b Mart Laar. Emajõgi 1944: Teise Maailmasõja lahingud Lõuna-Eestis (Emajõgi River 1944: Battles of World War II in South Estonia) (in Estonian). Tallinn: Varrak. p. 237.
^ Mart Laar (2006). Sinimäed 1944: II maailmasõja lahingud Kirde-Eestis (Sinimäed Hills 1944: Battles of World War II in Northeast Estonia) (in Estonian). Tallinn: Varrak. p. 336.{{cite book}}:
CS1 maint: publisher location (link)
^ Frucht, Richard (2005). Eastern Europe. ABC-CLIO. p. 111. ISBN 1-57607-800-0.
^ By Royal Institute of International Affairs. Information Dept. p. 825 Published 1945
^ Taagepera, Rein (1993). The Baltic States, Years of Dependence, 1940–1990. University of California Press. p. 69. ISBN 0-520-08228-1.
^ "Phase III: The Soviet Occupation of Estonia from 1944". In: Estonia since 1944: Reports of the Estonian International Commission for the Investigation of Crimes Against Humanity, pp. vii–xxvi. Tallinn, 2009
Further reading[edit]
David M. Glantz, Soviet Military Deception in the Second World War, Frank Cass, London, 1989, ISBN 0-7146-3347-X
Vercamer, A. Naval war in the Baltic Archived 2017-05-03 at the Wayback Machine, article accessed 18/04/08
vteWorld War II
Outline
Battles
Operations
Leaders
Allied
Axis
Commanders
Casualties
Conferences
GeneralTopics
Air warfare of World War II
In Europe
Blitzkrieg
Comparative military ranks
Cryptography
Declarations of war
Diplomacy
Governments in exile
Home front
Australian
United Kingdom
United States
Lend-Lease
Manhattan Project
British contribution
Military awards
Military equipment
Military production
Naval history
Nazi plunder
Opposition
Technology
Allied cooperation
Mulberry harbour
Total war
Strategic bombing
Puppet states
Women
Art and World War II
Music in World War II
Weather events during World War II
Theaters
Asia and Pacific
China
South-East Asia
Pacific
North and Central Pacific
South-West Pacific
Indian Ocean
Europe
Western Front
Eastern Front
Mediterranean and Middle East
North Africa
East Africa
Italy
West Africa
Atlantic
timeline
Americas
Aftermath
Chinese Civil War
Cold War
Decolonization
Division of Korea
First Indochina War
Expulsion of Germans
Greek Civil War
Indonesian National Revolution
Keelhaul
Marshall Plan
Occupation of Germany
Occupation of Japan
Osoaviakhim
Paperclip
Soviet occupations
Baltic
Hungary
Poland
Romania
Territorial changes of Germany
Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany
United Nations
War crimes
Allied war crimes
Soviet war crimes
Atrocities against prisoners of war
British war crimes
United States war crimes
German war crimes
forced labour
Wehrmacht war crimes
The Holocaust
Aftermath
Response
Nuremberg trials
Italian war crimes
Japanese war crimes
Nanjing Massacre
Unit 731
Prosecution
Croatian war crimes
Genocide of Serbs
Persecution of Jews
Romanian war crimes
Sexual violence
German military brothels
Camp brothels
Rape during the occupation of Germany  /
Japan  /
Poland  /
Manchuria
Rape during the liberation of France  /
Serbia
Sook Ching
Comfort women
Rape of Manila
Marocchinate
ParticipantsAllies
Algeria
Australia
Belgium
Brazil
Bulgaria (from September 1944)
Canada
China
Cuba
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
Ethiopia
Eswatini (formerly Swaziland)
Finland (from September 1944)
France
Free France
Greece
India (Indian Army)
Italy (from September 1943)
Liberia
Luxembourg
Mexico
Netherlands
Newfoundland
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Romania (from August 1944)
Sierra Leone
South Africa
Southern Rhodesia
Soviet Union
Tuva
United Kingdom
British Empire
United States
Puerto Rico
Yugoslavia
Axis
Albania protectorate
Bulgaria (until September 1944)
State of Burma
Republic of China (Wang Jingwei)
Independent State of Croatia
Finland (until September 1944)
German Reich
Hungary
Azad Hind
Iraq
Italy (until September 1943)
Italian Social Republic
Empire of Japan
Manchukuo
Mengjiang
Philippines
Romania (until August 1944)
Slovak Republic
Thailand
Vichy France
Guangzhouwan
French Indochina
French Madagascar
Syria–Lebanon
French North Africa
French West Africa
Collaboration
Neutral
Afghanistan
Andorra
Bhutan
Ireland
Liechtenstein
Monaco
Portugal
San Marino
Saudi Arabia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Tibet
Turkey
Vatican City
Yemen
Resistance
Albania
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Czech lands
Denmark
Dutch East Indies
Estonia
Ethiopia
France
Germany
Greece
Hong Kong
Italy
Japan
Jews
Korea
Korean Liberation Army
Korean Volunteer Army
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malaya
Netherlands
Northeast China
Norway
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Thailand
Soviet Union
Slovakia
Western Ukraine
Vietnam
Quốc dân Đảng
Viet Minh
Yugoslavia
POWs
Finnish prisoners in the Soviet Union
German prisoners
Soviet Union
Azerbaijan
United States
United Kingdom
Italian prisoners in the Soviet Union
Japanese prisoners
Soviet Union
German atrocities against Polish POWs
Soviet prisoners
Finland
atrocities by Germans
Polish prisoners in the Soviet Union
Romanian prisoners in the Soviet Union
TimelinePrelude
Africa
Second Italo-Ethiopian War
Asia
Second Sino-Japanese War
Battles of Khalkhin Gol
Europe
Remilitarisation of the Rhineland
Anschluss
Munich Agreement
Occupation of Czechoslovakia
Operation Himmler
Italian invasion of Albania
1939
Invasion of Poland
Battle of the Atlantic
Phoney War
First Battle of Changsha
Battle of South Guangxi
Winter War
1939–1940 Winter Offensive
1940
Norwegian campaign
German invasion of Denmark
Battle of Zaoyang–Yichang
German invasion of Luxembourg
German invasion of the Netherlands
German invasion of Belgium
Battle of France
Dunkirk evacuation
Battle of Britain
Battle of the Mediterranean
North Africa
West Africa
British Somaliland
Hundred Regiments Offensive
Baltic states
Eastern Romania
Japanese invasion of French Indochina
Italian invasion of Greece
Compass
1941
Battle of South Henan
Battle of Shanggao
Invasion of Yugoslavia
German invasion of Greece
Battle of Crete
Anglo-Iraqi War
Battle of South Shanxi
Syria–Lebanon campaign
East African campaign
Invasion of the Soviet Union
Summer War
Finland (Silver Fox)
Lithuania
Battle of Kiev
Anglo-Soviet invasion of Iran
Second Battle of Changsha
Siege of Leningrad
Battle of Moscow
Bombing of Gorky
Siege of Sevastopol
Attack on Pearl Harbor
Niʻihau incident
Japanese invasion of Thailand
Fall of Hong Kong
Fall of the Philippines
Battle of Guam
Battle of Wake Island
Malayan campaign
Battle of Borneo
Japanese invasion of Burma
Third Battle of Changsha
Greek famine of 1941–1944
1942
Fall of Singapore
Battle of the Java Sea
St Nazaire Raid
Battle of Christmas Island
Battle of the Coral Sea
Battle of Madagascar
Zhejiang-Jiangxi campaign
Battle of Gazala
Battle of Dutch Harbor
Battle of Midway
Aleutian Islands campaign
Kiska
Attu
Blue
First Battle of El Alamein
Battle of Stalingrad
Kokoda Track campaign
Rzhev
Jubilee
Second Battle of El Alamein
Guadalcanal campaign
Torch
Chinese famine of 1942–1943
1943
Black May
Tunisian campaign
Battle of West Hubei
Battle of Attu
Bombing of Gorky
Battle of Kursk
Allied invasion of Sicily
Smolensk
Solomon Islands campaign
Cottage
Battle of the Dnieper
Allied invasion of Italy
Armistice of Cassibile
Burma
Northern Burma and Western Yunnan
Changde
Second Battle of Kiev
Gilbert and Marshall Islands campaign
Tarawa
Makin
Bengal famine of 1943
1944
Tempest
Monte Cassino / Anzio
Korsun–Cherkassy
Narva
U-Go
Imphal
Ichi-Go
Kohima
Overlord
Neptune
Mariana and Palau
Bagration
Western Ukraine
Second Battle of Guam
Tannenberg Line
Warsaw Uprising
Eastern Romania
Liberation of Paris
Dragoon
Gothic Line
Belgrade offensive
Battle of San Marino
Lapland
Market Garden
Estonia
Crossbow
Pointblank
Vietnamese famine of 1944–1945
Philippines (1944–1945)
Leyte
Syrmian Front
Hungary
Budapest
Burma (1944–1945)
Ardennes
Bodenplatte
Dutch famine of 1944–1945
1945
Vistula–Oder
Battle of Manila
Battle of Iwo Jima
Indochina
Vienna offensive
Project Hula
Western invasion of Germany
Bratislava–Brno offensive
Battle of Okinawa
Second Guangxi campaign
West Hunan
Italy (Spring 1945)
Battle of Berlin
Prague offensive
Surrender of Germany
document
Borneo
Taipei
Naval bombardment of Japan
Manchuria
Atomic bombings
Debate
South Sakhalin
Kuril Islands
Shumshu
Surrender of Japan
Potsdam Declaration
document
End of World War II in Asia
World portal
Bibliography
Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tallinn_offensive&oldid=1304624500"
Categories: Conflicts in 19441944 in EstoniaBattles involving EstoniaBattles involving the Soviet UnionMilitary history of Estonia during World War IIStrategic operations of the Red Army in World War IIMilitary operations of World War II involving GermanyGeneralbezirk EstlandEstonian Soviet Socialist RepublicTallinn in World War IISeptember 1944 in EuropeHidden categories: Pages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasCS1 maint: location missing publisherWikipedia articles needing more precise page number citations from September 2022CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)CS1 Estonian-language sources (et)CS1 maint: publisher locationArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataCoordinates on WikidataArticles containing Russian-language textWebarchive template wayback linksGood articles
This page was last edited on 7 August 2025, at 05:02 (UTC). Warning: Page may not contain recent updates.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Tallinn offensive
12 languages
Add topic