This Tiny Gadget Should Be at the Heart of Every Smart, Energy-Saving Home - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Google/ Zooey Liao/ CNET
This Tiny Gadget Should Be at the Heart of Every Smart, Energy-Saving Home
As energy prices rise, a high-tech smart thermostat could help save you hundreds of dollars.
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Tyler Lacoma
July 23, 2025
4:08 a.m. PT 18 min read
We're now firmly in the summer months which means that we're in air conditioning territory. But whether you're keeping your home cool or looking to get toasty in the cooler months, one handy bit of tech could be the secret to keeping you comfortable and controling your energy bills. Getting the temperature just so is so easy in my smart home that I can do it using nothing more than my voice."Hey Google, show me my thermostat," I say.  "Got it," my Nest display responds. It brings up all my Nest thermostat settings, including a large dial on the touchscreen. At a touch, I can move the temperature up or down at will, as if by magic. A voice command would work too, but I like the tactile control when my display is handy.  Next, I take my wireless satellite sensor -- it looks like a large, white pebble you'd find in a river -- and perch it on a nearby shelf. My thermostat uses the sensor's readings in combination with the primary thermostat in the hall, picking up on temperatures in the spots where people actually spend time.These are only a few of the tricks in a smart thermostat's high-tech bag, and they're especially timely. CNET's energy survey from 2024 found that 78% of US adults are concerned about rising home energy costs, with almost a third of respondents relying on borrowing and payment plans to afford their energy bills. Heating bills in winter 2024 to 25 that rose by as much as double-digit rates didn't help matters. The Trump administration's tariffs are complicating matters, from broad supply chain effects to, as CNET editor Ajay Kumar relates, the targeting of Canadian electricity. That means individual consumers in the Midwest and New England could endure even more energy woes this year.
"Keeping the thermostat on a hold or trying to remember when to turn it on/off or up/down only drains energy and your wallet," Adina Roth, product lead for the Nest Learning Thermostat (like the model I'm currently using), tells me. "The most amazing part of a smart thermostat is the ability to keep your home at a comfortable temperature and balance energy usage." Changes like these help me shave $20 or more off my monthly heating costs in winter, while alerting me if my energy savings suddenly dip. While it's a new model, a couple more months of this and it will have paid for itself with minimal trouble. That's a far cry from eyeballing old dials and levers on thermostats from decades past. And installation? After wiring in my share of outdoor cameras and doorbells, this thermostat presented little challenge, especially after a quick wiring pic with my phone. Renters may need to ask permission to install one, but everyone can benefit from the savings — and without AI privacy issues to boot. I'll get more into all that farther along in this article. The end result: A mild-mannered smart device from brands like Ecobee, Google Nest, Honeywell Home and Amazon has an incredible ability to address energy issues and save us all money — without overwhelming home renovation. But that's not all this sub-$300 device can do.
In this article:
How far home temperature control has evolved
A dazzling, timely home centerpiece
How presence sensing and satellite sensors changed my home heating
Small screens, large savings
no matter your home
Warming up to renters
Tapping into the whole home
The wall is waiting
Clever girl -- just how much is your thermostat watching?
A new age of home temperature is here How far home temperature control has evolved We're entering a new era of efficient home heating and cooling, influenced by algorithms and wireless sensors to create dynamic temperature controls addressing numerous headaches. The cutting edge is changing quickly, even if most folks are slow to adopt: Our research found that only 20% of US adults have used a smart thermostat to address their energy woes. One reason for slow acceptance is how new all this tech (and the buildings that can use it) is: AI-powered smart thermostats are a very recent arrival in the history of humanity's temperature control journey. Those efforts span 50,000-year mammoth bone hearths in Ukraine, the beautiful bâdgir, or windcatcher towers, developed by ancient Persians, even a servant-powered mechanical fan with 10-foot fan wheels to cool down the palace halls of the Han dynasty. But it was the commercialization of natural gas in the 1800s that birthed modern heating, while refrigeration compression arrived in the early 1900s to do the same with cool air. Thermostats swiftly became the go-to method to measure and regulate temperature control.  Those old mechanical thermostats didn't offer much outside of basic up-or-down control until the smart home upgrades of the 2010s. Now, if you have whole house climate control, one thermostat upgrade is all you need to tap into the latest home tech evolution.
A dazzling, timely home centerpiece Smart thermostats sport a marked stylish streak. Curved designs and vivid touchscreens make them look nigh-otherworldly on a humble hallway wall. Those touchscreens can be customized, but my Nest Thermostat 4 is permanently set to light up with the outdoor weather when approached. Its screen shifts with mesmerizing animations like falling snow, drifting fog or evening sunlight based on what's happening outside.  Behind the pretty face, capabilities previously unknown to thermostats are at work. While it may not be AI in the way most of us think of it these days, smart thermostats have used learning algorithms for years to study house habits. Fortunately, the basic operation will still seem familiar to anyone who's set temperatures.
CNETWith a touch or twist of the dial, you can choose temperature triggers immediately or schedule changes from anywhere via the app. Once you've set a weekly schedule, you can save it and then switch between set schedules as the seasons or plans shift. Some thermostats, like Nest's "Indefinite Eco" setting (which sets everything to energy-saving levels) even offer a dedicated mode for when no one will be home for a while. Ecobee has both a "Vacation" mode and an ability for the thermostat to adopt settings from other local Ecobee users. Laura Finson, the director of product management for Brinks Home, reminds me about another useful mode most thermostats offer: "By using local weather forecasts, my thermostat can automatically adjust when extremely hot or cold weather is predicted," she said. Finson, whose company specializes in smart home and home security, said, "Once the outdoor temperature returns to a normal range, the thermostat resets the target temperature."  My Nest model can do this through the Safety Temperature mode and I'm definitely turning that on this August, our hottest time of year as well as the height of wildfire season (which means windows usually stay closed). Once you have schedules set up and learn how to use the thermostat wherever you are, you'll start getting energy use reports and notifications on how much you've saved, possibly even alerts about changing home filters. Some even encourage you to compete with the community on how energy-efficient you can be, such as via Nest "Leafs."
My Nest energy report wasn't very happy about January, but at least I had data telling me to make some changes. Tyler Lacoma/CNETAs you can see, my Nest reports showed a large rise in January energy use as temperatures plunged, a pricey change considering my utility company instituted a massive price increase. By February, smarter home practices and help from my thermostat improved my home's energy consumption significantly, ending winter in a much better place financially. Without the thermostat's analysis, shifting strategies month by month like this is much harder.
With changes and a little help from my thermostat, I managed to start correcting January's energy-hungry bills. Tyler Lacoma/CNETBut what about the initial cost? Most AI-powered thermostats cost between $200 and $300. Some, like Amazon's model, offer budget options under $100. When I contacted a spokesperson from the nonprofit Energy Trust of Oregon about discounts, he explained, "Be sure to check with your local energy provider for potential discounts. Some utilities offer rebates or discounts on smart thermostats to their customers."
How presence sensing and satellite sensors changed my home heating How is a thermostat "smart"? In addition to app control, two features make smart thermostats game-changing: presence sensing with learning algorithms and satellite sensors. Both of these deeply practical features require only minimal effort to use. Presence sensing uses basic motion sensors to detect when someone is moving near the thermostat or if there's general household activity. Those sensors also help shut the thermostat screen off when not in use, which saves money and helps most of these devices earn Energy Star ratings. When enabled, AI thermostats use this data to automatically modify home heating and cooling, shifting into higher gear only when the house is active. That includes when people are getting up to grab morning coffee or coming home in the evening after wrapping up a shift. No tedious tinkering with hourly schedules is needed. The second feature, bundled free with the latest smart thermostats or available separately, is the powerful but tiny satellite sensor, a wireless dongle that can sense the temperature wherever it's placed in the home. Set this sensor (usually around $40 as an add-on) in a spot where people congregate, and it will send more accurate readings than thermostats stuck in drafty entryways or stuffy halls, customizing the comfort appropriately. Each sensor has its own tricks. Ecobee's version can sense what room people are in, so if you have multiple sensors the thermostat bases its readings on the room where the most activity is, which can help save money. Nest's sensors (as well as Nest Hubs) can combine readings with the main thermostat to average out temperature needs for the house — or focus only on one sensor as needed. My Amazon Echo Dot 5, meanwhile, can serve as a smart speaker, alarm clock and satellite sensor all in one.
CNETI've found lots of ways to use both learning features and satellite sensors in my own home: Using a presence sensor keeps me from wasting money on a space heater in the mornings while learning functions quickly pick up that no one (except my cat) likes to get up early on the weekends. Eventually, my learning thermostats recognized that no one is at home on Thursdays when I like to work from communal spaces, and dipped temp levels accordingly.  Likewise, if I'm having a movie night, I can move a satellite sensor to a nearby table by the TV so the house doesn't overheat, or when snuggling in bed, I can take it to the bedroom along with morning tea. Early breakfast planned? I'll make sure it's on the kitchen counter at night so the house heats up with that area in mind. There are more serious use cases, too. When temperatures dropped below 10 degrees Fahrenheit last winter, I occasionally put satellite sensors close to my home's sink pipes so the thermostat could more closely monitor them and make sure the degrees didn't drop so much they threatened to freeze pipes.  "Sensors can also be helpful if you have someone with extra needs in the home," Adina Roth, product lead for the Nest Learning Thermostat, tells me. "When my baby niece came to stay, we made sure to prioritize temperatures for her bedroom for peace of mind that the air would stay right on target." Now my home stays comfier, saves more money and adapts to whatever I'm doing. These advanced learning features also save me from all the hassling, tiny thermostat adjustments based on shifting circumstances. I keep thinking that this is finally what home thermostats were supposed to be — it just took technology a century to catch up.
Small screens, large savings — no matter your home Simple energy guidelines can get anyone started with a smart thermostat: In the cold months, set it to at most 68 degrees Fahrenheit for heating when at home, and at least several degrees lower when asleep or away. In the hot months, set cooling to trigger at 75 to 78 degrees when at home, and several degrees higher when you're asleep or away. As my colleague Jon Reed, senior CNET reporter and expert in both home energy and AI, tells me, "I see the most benefit when I'm not home. When I'm home, I don't always set it at the optimal energy-saving temperature. But if I'm out of the house, it automatically adjusts by 8 degrees or more, and that shows up in the form of lower energy bills." When in doubt, adjust until you enter the thermostat's eco mode. You can switch to eco modes via app, and in Nest's case you simply turn the thermostat manually until you see its little green leaf icon appear next to the temperature dial. Thermostat learning features help automatically dial in exactly when to make these changes based on household activity. Nest's Roth described to me how fast these features work: "In my house, I love the ability to turn down the heat or A/C when no one is home ... Pairing that with one of our more recent features, Adaptive Eco, it ensures you can still get back to your ideal temperature within an hour of arriving home." The resulting energy savings often prove to be substantial.
CNETThe above guidelines save an average home money, and Energy Star research estimates that using a smart thermostat can save a further 8% (around $50) annually on heating and cooling bills. Google's own study of Nest Learning Thermostat users showed that they saved an average of 12% on heating and 15% on cooling. That works out to average savings of $131 to $145 annually, while Ecobee told me its thermostats can save up to 26%, or around $250 at the high end. Either way, give it two years and most smart thermostats pay for themselves. While high-tech thermostats are energy-saving standouts, they work even better when combined with the latest home heating and cooling tech. Smart thermostats partner well with heat pumps, for example, the latest whole home or window units that ditch outdated fuels to use advanced refrigerants (and in some cases geothermal heat) to move cooled or warmed air into a home, like an air conditioner that can work in reverse.  Modern versions of heat pumps work even in my dry climate, where winter weather drops far below freezing, and studies have found up to 95% of homes could see energy bills drop by adopting a heat pump. Energy Star has another option for saving money if you don't mind looping in your utility company. "For homes with smart thermostats connected to an electric heating and cooling system, many utilities also offer discounts or credits during what are called energy 'rush hours,'" the spokesperson explains. "Those can often be in the evenings when more people are home and especially during heat waves or cold snaps."  Programs like Ecobee's Community Energy Savings or Renew Home can take care of the details, too. Combine these two types of revolutionary temperature technology (plus extras like solar panels or multizone systems), and they represent savings that could transform how an entire country's energy grid works — no matter what kind of home you own or rent.
Warming up to renters With the number of renters in the United States now around 45 million — and millions more around the globe — there's a large demographic that may not be sure whether they would benefit from a smart thermostat, or if they can legally get one.  First, the good news: Smart thermostats provide significant benefits to renters, particularly with their automatic learning capabilities. Since many renters must cover their own electricity costs, the savings benefits remain just as significant and even more so if there are lots of people coming and going from a home. The big question is if renters can take initiative and install their own smart thermostats. Some wiring and replacements are required (more on that below), which means renters usually need to get permission from the landlord or check their lease to see what kind of devices they're allowed to add. And when renters shift to a new place, they'll likely leave the thermostat behind and cede control to the owner.
CNETThis brings me to how landlords use smart thermostats. Property firms and landlords generally want to save as much money on heating and cooling as possible, and smart thermostats give them a remote way to do that... which can invite abuse of the system. That's one of the biggest reasons why states have laws about maintaining heat in rentals: In California, habitable rental rooms need to have a minimum option of 70 degrees Fahrenheit, so landlords can't use a smart thermostat to keep yanking temps below that level. In New York, it's 68 F during the day between October and May. Much like smart thermostats, these tenant laws are growing more complex. In California, warming trends and heat-related deaths have led government officials to make recommendations for a minimum cooling floor (82 F) for rental buildings. Smart thermostats offer a way to meet guidelines like these while still saving money.  But be warned: Some smart thermostat companies, like European brand Tado, are using their new importance to start charging subscription fees.
Tapping into the whole home So far I've covered the core of the smart thermostat, but these clever devices work their best magic when extending helpful connections throughout a smart house. The secret is the basic sensors that smart thermostats have — temperature, motion, humidity and air quality — and how they tap into compatible smart home hubs to trigger other actions. Lara Finson at Brinks Home embraces a full routine setup of her own: "My family prefers a cooler temperature at night while we sleep. With the integration, I simply tell Alexa to run our sleep scene and she takes care of everything with command: turning off the lights, locking the doors, closing the garage door if we accidentally left it open and setting the thermostat to 66 F."
Smart home thermostat integrations can span many devices, depending on your setup. CNETThere are dozens of examples depending on what your smart thermostat supports and how compatibility evolves. Here are a few I and others have found useful in our daily habits:  You can set a thermostat to turn up when a front door smart lock is unlocked. If your arrive-at-home times are variable, a compatible smart lock can send a message to your thermostat to start warming or cooling the home when the door is opened. This works well with systems like Abode, which support both Ecobee thermostats and a variety of smart locks for useful routines. Ecobee's thermostat can even show a view of your front door with an Ecobee doorbell cam.You can use it as a voice assistant-powered smart speaker. Ecobee's Smart Thermostat Premium has a unique feature that's excellent for people who don't already have a smart speaker. It can function as an Alexa voice assistant speaker or use an Apple Siri integration to answer questions, set timers, and control compatible smart devices. But I don't recommend using a smart thermostat to play music — it's a bit too reedy-sounding.You can use a smart plug to turn on a dehumidifier when indoor humidity gets a little too high. For example, Ecobee's latest thermostat can measure indoor humidity: Ambitious smart home users with platforms like HomeKit, SmartThings or IFTTT and a supported smart plug can set humidity levels to automatically turn on a smart plug powering a large dehumidifier or a smart-connected fan, addressing the situation automatically. Nest thermostats, meanwhile, let you wire in a whole-house dehumidifier and trigger it with outdoor humidity reports.You can set up automatic air purification when air quality readings raise alarm bells. If air quality is your concern, a smart plug connected to an air purifier can perform a similar trick as with humidity, but this time to improve air quality if it's been smoky outside. You'll need a thermostat that reads air quality, like Ecobee's Premium model or Honeywell Home's T10 Pro thermostat with a compatible ductwork-based air purifier.You can connect a thermostat to your fresh air. Adina Roth of Nest mentioned this summer-friendly trick: "I love the Google Home App automation to pause your heating-cooling if you open the windows." Features like these allow homes to get periodic fresh air without throwing thermostats an energy-sapping curveball.These clever connections are fun, but I bet you're starting to wonder just how easy all this setup is.
The wall is waiting Those bringing a smart thermostat home for the first time quickly raise a question: Can you install it yourself, or do you need some help? If I could give two pieces of advice to smart thermostat newbies, the first would be, "Practice proper safety and call an electrician if you're unsure," and the second, "Don't fear the wires." If you really, really don't want to mess with wiring, you can quickly find a professional installation service, usually to the tune of $100 to $200. If you buy your thermostat online, brands will connect you with a local service and help you set up an appointment. Always look for deals: I've seen brands like Nest offer free bundled installation services when you buy a new thermostat, as well as local installers advertising seasonal discounts.
In-depth instructions help guide newcomers through the installation process, as long as they're comfortable with some wires. Google NestBut in many cases, you can install your own smart thermostat if you're willing to dive into the details. In-depth videos from smart thermostat brands introduce the base plate, where all the wires are connected and walk you through the process with relatively little to sweat over. CNET has also step-by-step guides on installing Nest and Ecobee thermostats and how to cut past any confusion. At a glance, those wire contacts can look intimidating as you dislodge your old thermostat (after cutting off the power, of course). There are usually four to eight, with labels like Y1, OB and R that won't immediately make sense without electrical experience.  "Check the wiring of your current system, as some smart thermostats require a C-wire," Finson says, referring to one common complication with the "C" or common wire used to supply electricity. "Older homes may not have a C-wire, in which case you'll need an electrician or HVAC professional to install one."  My home comes C-wire-equipped for direct power, for example, but my current thermostat doesn't need one.
Taking a photo can take a lot of stress out of the thermostat installation process. Google NestBut while installation may be a step above the wire-or-two mounting of what wired video doorbell or smart plugs may need, it's still well within the abilities of most home-havers, especially when combined with app walkthroughs from the brand. Stripping or capping wires is rarely necessary. CNET's Jon Reed had some excellent advice at this point, too: "As someone who's repeatedly installed a lot of thermostats, my advice for DIYers is simple: Take pictures of the wiring and label the wires. It's easy to get carried away disconnecting the old thermostat, but you'll regret being hasty when you're trying to figure out which wire is which." Once the faceplate is wired and screwed in, the tough stuff is done. One last installation check remains: Always check that a smart thermostat is compatible with your heating and cooling system. You can find the details by looking at that photo you took of your current wiring alignment and what wires you have. Ecobee has an excellent online walkthrough of how to check for compatibility here. It's not usually an issue, but you will want to see if your home has any unique quirks and maybe switch to a different thermostat model if necessary.
Clever girl: Just how much is your thermostat watching? Adopting a new online device, especially one with such a central role in your home, invites privacy questions. While smart device hacking may be on the rise in public institutions, home hacking remains mercifully rare, and there's not much reason for criminals to take over a thermostat.  The more notable threat is what data companies can gather about us in private moments of our daily lives, like morning habits or temperature choices. Smart thermostats rank well when it comes to general privacy, but there are a couple of concessions. That's why CNET has detailed guides on how to stop voice assistants in the smart home from saving every voice command you give for analysis, or creating customer profiles about you based on what you say. It's also why we keep tabs on vulnerabilities that could let employees spy through security cameras and new developments like companies recruiting AI to search through videos stored in the cloud.
CNETSo, where do thermostats fall on the privacy matrix? Fortunately, there's not much they can spy on by themselves. When I asked the experts at smart home company Resideo, for example, what user data its smart thermostats collected, it divided the answer into three general categories: Account data, energy management data (what Resideo described as "demand response event logs" and manual thermostat changes, etc.), and usage based on app activity (which can include location data if users tap into geofencing). In some cases, that data does get shared with third parties with user consent, and following specific laws like the California Consumer Privacy Act. This sort of data collection isn't so unusual: Many apps and mobile devices do the same thing. If it's online, someone's watching how the device is used. But there's no way to listen to someone, watch someone or breach sensitive content like uploaded videos, so compared to many home devices, thermostat data analysis is relatively benign. If you're worried about privacy, smart thermostats present low risks for the services they offer. Resideo recommends "using one from a trusted manufacturer, ensure the thermostat is connected to a private, password-protected Wi-Fi network and use multifactor authentication" to stay as safe as possible. If companies knowing about your daily routine and temperature changes still creeps you out, more advanced options exist if you want to put in the work. Platforms such as Candle offer a Build-A-Bear approach to smart home management that lets you piece together devices and routines without any Big Brothers, but it takes time, effort and tech knowhow to accomplish. For most people, a standard smart thermostat gets the job done without requiring significant privacy concessions.
A new age of home temperature is here Energy prices are rising fast. Wild weather events are growing more common. We're paying the (often high) price to keep our homes at stable temperatures. But smart thermostats offer a path to a new future, a way to handle extreme temperatures in style and save money doing it. Almost anyone can use a smart thermostat and their associated eco modes to slash heating or cooling bills. After the initial cost, most pay for themselves in two years. Plus, they look great, answer to voice commands and keep your home more comfortable based on the rooms you use, instead of wherever the thermostat happens to be. We're in a new era of temperature control that's solving problems people have been living with for centuries, not unlike the invention of machine-powered fans or steam engine heating. Will you be one of the early adopters this time? Smart thermostats are waiting to learn more — I'm sure glad mine did. Visual Designer | Zooey LiaoArt Director | Jeffrey HazelwoodCreative Director | Viva TungVideo Editor | JD ChristisonProject Manager | Danielle RamirezDirector of Content | Jonathan SkillingsEditors | Corinne Reichert, Katie Collins
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.