XDA - A Valnet Publication
About
Our Team
News & Events
Our Impact
Media Coverage
Editorial Standards
Brands
Screen
Gaming
Automotive
Travel
Sports
Entertainment & Lifestyle
Technology
Advertising
Careers
Insights
Contact
fr
Acquired and owned by Valnet Inc. since February 2022, XDA's publications cover all aspects of computing, including desktops, laptops, PC components, gaming handhelds, peripherals, emerging technologies like AI / VR, and the software that powers it all. In the early 2010s, XDA had expanded its scope to Android devices and rose to become one of the largest global Android resources. In the years since, we’ve evolved into a class-leading digital publication with insightful articles ranging from smartphones to computing.
Learn More
Follow XDA on YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, X, TikTok, and LinkedIn.
0
.1M+
Monthly Sessions
0
.3M+
Monthly Pageviews
0
%
Prime Geo Sessions
Visit Publication
Advertise Today
Contact us for more information
advertising@valnetinc.com
XDA is part of our Technology Portfolio which ranks sixth in website reach among technology publishers and number one in social reach.
Our Technology Portfolio includes XDA, Android Police, Pocket-lint, MakeUseOf, and How-To Geek.
Disclaimer/source: Comscore Media Metrix® Multi-Platform, Total Audience (desktop 2+, mobile 18+), Custom List excluding non-content generating Publishers, January 2025. Metrics exclude third-party inventory providers.
Partner Testimonials
Partnering with XDA, Android Police and Pocket-lint significantly boosted our sales. Their adaptable approach to the ever-changing content landscape and deep expertise in tech content helped us connect with our audience more effectively, driving conversions and enhancing our brand's visibility.
Valnet has been an agile and creative partner, consistently delivering high-quality content at an impressive pace. Their deep industry knowledge and ability to produce compelling insights make them a standout leader in the tech space. Beyond their exceptional work, their team is a pleasure to collaborate with—warm, well-connected, and respected by peers. Working with Valnet strengthens our own efforts, and we’re proud to have them as a valued partner!
EVG Media works with numerous editorial publishers. Valnet has the in-depth knowledge and expertise of the latest technology and product updates. Its editorial team truly understands the industry, making Valnet's content invaluable not only to the brands it covers, but also to its readers.
About
Brands
Advertising
Careers
Insights
Contact
Media
General Inquiries
info@valnetinc.com
Careers
recruitment@valnetinc.com
Legal
legal@valnetinc.com
Ad Partnership
advertising@valnetinc.com
Public Relations
pr@valnetinc.com
Canada
+1 (514) 733-1010
United States
+1 (786) 471-1113
Facebook
LinkedIn
Instagram
Youtube
Telegram
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy