Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang Explains His $5 Billion Investment in Intel - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
Nvidia CEO explains why he's making a $5 billion bet on struggling chip giant Intel
By
Emma Cosgrove
Nvidia is partnering with Intel with a $5 billion investment.
Kent Nishimura/REUTERS
2025-09-18T20:29:07Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Nvidia is taking a $5 billion stake in Intel and committing to new business between the chip giants.
The deals are an endorsement of the so-far bumpy turnaround led by Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan.
Intel's stock soared Thursday morning.
In a significant endorsement of Intel's turnaround process, Nvidia is making a $5 billion investment in another chipmaker.
Intel has faced years of dwindling market share and revenues despite the US government's intervention to help it build chip factories. On Thursday, it got perhaps the most impactful endorsement in the world of semiconductors — that of Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang."We're delighted to have invested in Intel, and the return on that investment is going to be fantastic," Huang said at a Thursday press conference.
As part of this partnership, Intel is set to incorporate Nvidia graphics processing unit technology, used for powering AI applications, into its coming AI PC models. Nvidia is set to integrate Intel's x86 central processing units — the traditional computer chips needed to run the more advanced AI chips — in its data centers."We're going to become a very large customer of Intel CPUs," Huang said.Intel's stock had climbed about 23% by the Thursday closing bell.
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang's blessingThe partnership has come just weeks after Intel found itself in the crosshairs of President Donald Trump's administration. Trump called for Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan's immediate resignation in early August, citing conflicts of interest from his Chinese investments. Trump quickly reversed course after meeting with Tan.Soon, investment announcements began rolling. In early August, SoftBank announced it was investing $2 billion in Intel via stock. A few weeks later, Trump announced the US government would be taking a 9.9% stake in the company — a move that has garnered head-scratches from business leaders, along with cheers and jeers from politicians.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Trump and Nvidia's Huang have been spending more time together. Both men were in the UK on Wednesday when Huang announced a major AI data center project alongside the president's state visit.
Some see political benefit for Nvidia in the Intel deal, too."Partnering with a US-backed Intel strengthens Nvidia's alignment with Washington's industrial policy, potentially reducing scrutiny around its China exposure," wrote Brad Gastwirth, the global head of research at Circular Technology.Huang said Thursday that the administration had no role in the deal, though it was supportive.
With Nvidia's investment, Bernstein estimates it will own about 4% of Intel. The three deals will eventually bring Intel $16 billion in cash."Having Jensen's blessing is priceless," the Bernstein senior analyst Stacy Rasgon wrote in a note to investors.What the investment in Intel entailsTan said at Thursday's event that the collaboration builds on the "core strengths" of both companies.
Huang's investment in Intel allows Nvidia to address the personal computer market. Currently, it focuses on the desktop GPU market, which is prevalent in gaming, graphics, and scientific applications.Nvidia has historically purchased CPUs from AMD and ARM. AMD's stock fell moderately upon the news as the company competes with Intel in both data centers and consumer PCs.Huang said ARM's business wouldn't be affected. Wall Street analysts noted the potential for a small share loss for ARM and a slightly larger potential loss for AMD, though still likely incremental.
Intel's foundry plansThursday's announcement didn't include news for Intel's foundry business, a costly bet to manufacture chips domestically for other companies. At the Thursday press conference, the two executives side-stepped multiple questions about the potential for Nvidia to become a foundry customer of Intel."We've always evaluated Intel's foundry technology, and we're going to continue to do that," Huang said. "But today, this announcement is squarely focused on these custom CPUs."The Bernstein analysts wrote that $5 billion won't fix Intel's struggles with building its foundry business.
"The root cause of Intel's issue is its small scale, high cost, and poor execution of Intel Foundry," the Bernstein analysts wrote.What Wall Street says about the investment in IntelNvidia could gain from the increased influence over future generations of Intel product design as AI makes its way into personal computers, Gastwirth said.And the deal with Nvidia could change the narrative for Intel, which has been losing share in its product sales, Rasgon said. Intel has also been conducting rolling layoffs for years.
"We note that no timeline has been given for future product roadmaps, however," Rasgon wrote, adding that it would most likely take "several years."
Recommended video
AI
Intel
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account