Walmart Headquarters Visit in Bentonville, Arkansas: a Tourist's Dream - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I visited Bentonville, Arkansas, where Walmart's new headquarters is expanding. The city was a tourist's dream.
By
Noah Sheidlower
Bentonville surprised me with its many nature trails and vibrant downtown.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
2025-09-24T15:16:58Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I recently visited Bentonville, the home of Walmart, in northwest Arkansas.
The city is modern, upbeat, and diverse, with many new restaurants and plenty of history.
Bentonville is one of the greenest cities I've been to, with miles of hiking and biking trails.
Everyone in Bentonville either works for Walmart or a supplier for Walmart — or knows someone who does, an Uber driver said as he showed me around the downtown.Bentonville, a city of slightly over 60,000, sits in the northwest corner of Arkansas, nestled in the Ozark Mountains and north of the University of Arkansas. Walmart was founded one town over in Rogers, and the retail giant opened a home office and distribution center in Bentonville in 1970.
The Walton family, including Walmart founder Sam Walton, has made its presence known around the city over the years. In January, Walmart opened the first phase of its 350-acre headquarters, which is nearing completion. The campus boasts a fitness center, public bike and running trails, and a large food hall, in addition to soon-to-be-open restaurants and shops.About a mile west, the Walmart Museum sits on one of the corners of the Bentonville Square. Sam Walton's daughter Alice Walton led efforts to develop the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art, the Alice L. Walton School of Medicine, and Northwest Arkansas National Airport.Bentonville has seen rapid development as Walmart continues to bring its employees to its rapidly expanding campus, and as nearby companies like Tyson Foods and J.B. Hunt Transport Services grow. New and renovated houses have popped up across the city, alongside more office buildings and restaurants.
The city has also embraced its role as the "mountain-biking capital of the world" and maintains its many parks. Some older buildings, such as the Peel Museum & Botanical Garden, stand next to much more recent builds. The area also pays homage to its Native American heritage through institutions like the Museum of Native American History.I spent a day in Bentonville to see how new transplants and long-time residents are living.
The Walmart Home Office is east of downtown.
The "Welcome to Walmart" sign is by one of the new buildings.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
The new 350-acre Walmart Home Office, what the company calls its campus, was quiet on a Friday, though some tourists were also walking around taking photos.
Many employees gather at Sam Walton Hall.
Sam Walton Hall overlooks bike trails.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Sam Walton Hall is over 200,000 square feet and includes a large auditorium and conference spaces.
Walmart's new campus has plenty of green spaces.
Walmart's Home Office is much greener than I expected.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Much of the new Home Office is bikeable or walkable, including this section near the Walton Family fitness center and the welcome center. I was struck by how green the campus is, given that it uses native plants to promote sustainability.
The Home Office is still undergoing construction.
Walmart is still constructing buildings that will host restaurants, shops, and banks.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Many construction workers were busy getting storefronts ready for new businesses like an Arvest Bank and a Sweetgreen.
Bentonville's downtown hosts the Walmart Museum.
The Walmart Museum is in a former Walton's 5 & 10 store.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
About a mile west of the campus, Bentonville's downtown, off the Square, hosts the Walmart Museum, a two-story exhibition space in Sam Walton's first 5 & 10 store.
A hologram of Sam Walton is the centerpiece of the museum.
The Walmart Museum features a hologram of Sam Walton.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Visitors to the Walmart Museum can hear Sam Walton speak, at least in hologram form. Walton's AI-powered hologram answers questions about the history of the business.
The city is home to the first bikeable building.
Bentonville is home to Ledger.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
A few blocks from the Bentonville Square, Ledger is the first-ever bikeable building, meaning riders can navigate its six floors using an outside ramp. Ledger includes co-working, office, and retail space.
There are miles of trails north of downtown.
The Compton Gardens & Arboretum is one of the city's many nature areas.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Compton Gardens & Arboretum, directly north of downtown, makes up the southern tip of miles of hiking and biking trails. These trails include sculptures by artists like Yayoi Kusama and James Turrell.
The Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art features work by Norman Rockwell and Georgia O'Keeffe.
The Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art includes art from many famous Americans.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Designed by architect Moshe Safdie, the museum includes paintings by Thomas Eakins, Georgia O'Keeffe, Norman Rockwell, and Winslow Homer. The museum, which is expanding and free to the public, also runs a contemporary art space called the Momentary, closer to downtown.
Bentonville has a Frank Lloyd Wright House.
The Bachman-Wilson House was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
In 1954, Frank Lloyd Wright designed the Bachman-Wilson House, which was originally built in New Jersey, acquired in 2014, and relocated to Arkansas. The house is a short walk from Crystal Bridges.
Bentonville is known as the "mountain-biking capital of the world."
Mountain biking trails often run alongside hiking trails.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
The Bentonville area boasts over 150 miles of mountain-bike trails, particularly in the city's northwest. This particular trail is a 20-minute walk from Crystal Bridges.
The city includes many new science facilities.
The Alice L. Walton School of Medicine was founded in 2021.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Alice Walton opened her namesake private medical school in 2021 and the first five classes received free tuition. The school is a short distance from Crystal Bridges and the Amazeum, a science museum for kids. The city is also home to the NWA Space and Science Center and the Heartland Whole Health Institute.
Many homes are being built or renovated.
Many new homes are being built across Bentonville.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
Many homes are being erected or undergoing major renovations. Bentonville's population has grown from just over 20,000 residents in 2000 to almost 50,000 in 2017. It's estimated that nearly 62,000 people lived in Bentonville in 2024. The average home price in Bentonville is nearly $500,000, according to Zillow.
The Bentonville Square has many types of cuisine.
Bentonville has diverse food offerings.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
In and around the Bentonville Square are upscale and casual restaurants serving up Mexican fusion, "High South" cuisine spotlighting catfish or venison, barbecue, Japanese, and bagels.
Some visitors trek to Sam Walton's grave.
Sam Walton is buried next to his wife, Helen.
Noah Sheidlower/Business Insider
On the outskirts of Bentonville is the gravesite of Sam Walton and his wife, Helen. His tombstone is covered in small Walmart tokens.Overall, I found Bentonville to be charming, modern, and unexpectedly vibrant.
Recommended video
Walmart
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account