LG G5 Series OLED TV Review: Brightest OLED Yet, Great for Gaming - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TVs
LG G5 Series OLED TV Review: Brightest OLED Yet, Great for Gaming
The LG Evo AI G5 OLED has set a new standard for gaming and movie watching among premium TVs.
Article updated on June 4, 2025 at 12:05 PM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Product Tests 14151617181920212223 Testers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Hours Tested
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.8/ 10
SCORE LG G5 Series
$2,997 at Walmart $2,997 at B&H Photo-Video$2,997 at Crutchfield
Pros
Highest brightness of any OLED TV yet
Stunning image quality
Cons
Brightness boost not visible in all content
Remote is not as good as previous versions
Expensive
Table of Contents
LG G5 Series OLED TV Review: Brightest OLED Yet, Great for Gaming
LG G5 OLED TV sizes and series comparison
Class from the ground up
Smart TV and AI
Higher brightness is just the start
High-end OLED comparison: LG G5 vs. LG C5 vs. Samsung S95D
Light output in nits
LG C5 test measurements
OLED TVs have consistently demonstrated the best picture quality according to our head-to-head tests -- with the best shadow detail, contrast, color and black levels. Yet, there is one thing LCD-based TVs have always done better: sheer brightness. That is, until the LG G5 came along. Finally, OLED can reclaim its place at the top of the TV technology leader board with a model that performs brilliantly in almost every single respect. When LG claimed its G5 had a 40% brightness increase I was skeptical because companies make these types of announcements all the time. Furthermore, OLED has typically been an incremental technology, with small gains made every year. The year 2025 is an exception and LG has made a major leap forward in light output. The G5 is bright. Very bright.  Based on my measurements, the claimed improvement is right on the money. I have compared it against the brightness of the Samsung S95F and the LG C5, and it did very well, but there are still others, like the Panasonic Z95B, to come. The catch to all that brightness is that its impact varies with different types of video. While I was watching typical Blu-ray movies or streaming HDR TV shows, it was difficult to tell the difference between the LG C4 from 2024, the less expensive C5 I reviewed earlier and the G5. It was mainly in console gaming or particularly well-mastered 4K material that I saw the advantages. The extra brightness helped in bright rooms too. For a roughly $600 premium on the 65-inch C5, the G5 offers nearly twice the potential brightness and better color saturation too. While most OLED generations have experienced a small bump, the G5 is demonstrably brighter than any other OLED TV on the market. If you want the punchiest OLED picture available right now, it's the LG G5.  As a counterpoint, if you want maximum bang for buck, then last year's C4, at a savings of more than $2,000 on the G5, is the OLED to buy. Editors' note, July 19: I published the full review of the Samsung S95F after the LG G5's, and have since awarded the Samsung S95F the CNET Editors' Choice. The rest of this review is as it appeared in May 2025.Read more: I'm a TV Reviewer, and Gaming on This New LG OLED Blew My MindBest TVs of 2025
See at CNET
LG G5 OLED TV sizes and series comparison I performed a hands-on evaluation of the 65-inch LG G5, but this review also applies to the other screen sizes in the series. All sizes have very similar specs and should provide very similar picture quality.  LG OLED97G5WUA (97-inch)LG OLED83G5WUA (83-inch)LG OLED77G5WUA (77-inch)  		LG OLED65G5WUA (65-inch)LG OLED55G5WUA (55-inch)The G5 evo AI series, to use its full name, is the company's premium wired TV for 2025. The flagship M5 announced at CES is the same panel but it features a wireless connection to the input box. The rest of the range is made of the mid-level C5 and the entry-level B5.
Class from the ground up
Ty Pendlebury/CNETWhile the C series goes for a slim profile, the G series is a lot chunkier, being about an inch thick. It goes without saying that when you're watching TV on either of these the differences in thickness don't matter. The G5's bezel design is classy with a thin, black border and a faint metallic rim. One thing I appreciate about the G5 is that it includes a slim wall mount in the box -- no more flailing around on Amazon for a suitable mount, it's right there. The company also produces a separate "desktop stand" which is a gun metal pedestal. I used the stand instead of the wall mount and found that it was easy enough to attach.
LG's Magic Remote has been redesigned for 2025. Ty Pendlebury/CNETWhile I am used to the "infrared thermometer" remote that has shipped with LG OLEDs for the past decade, the 2025 models switch it up with a more traditional candy-bar shape. It's still a "magic" remote with a motion-sensitive cursor I could wave around the screen, but you can also use it as if it's a regular clicker. It has fewer buttons than before, yet more with AI functions, and I do miss the dedicated input button (you now need to hold down Home).
Smart TV and AI
Ty Pendlebury/CNETThe LG G5 comes with the latest version of the company's webOS software, which features dozens of streaming apps as well as integration with the company's ThinQ smart platform. Progressively, companies such as Samsung, Google and LG are focussing on the TV as the center of the smart home and let you control your compatible devices. As evidence of this, the LG remote's ThinQ button brings up a home screen of your smart devices as well as the TV's inputs -- although I still want a dedicated input button!  From the name alone you can tell the "G5 evo AI" is a 2025 TV and it certainly goes overboard with the robots: Alpha 11 AI Processor Gen2, AI Picture Pro, AI Super Upscaling and AI Concierge. While most of these functions relate to picture processing, and are something TVs have done in an un-AI guise for years, the Concierge is new.  I tested the TV's AI Concierge feature on the cheaper C5 and didn't find it to be all that helpful. While the AI is supposed to learn from your watch history it's more limited than that -- it bases its content recommendations on your interactions with the AI. This is separate from using another voice assistant or just the remote control to pick your content -- some people may find use for this AI feature but I foresee many people giving up quickly. Like most TVs today, the LG C5 has a gallery mode that also includes the ability to create your own AI art or upload a photo gallery.
Watch this: LG C5 vs. LG G5: Which OLED Gives the Most for Your Money
03:03
Higher brightness is just the start The G5's OLED panel features the company's Brightness Boosting Ultimate tech, which magnifies each individual pixel, and it boasts a new four layer design ("four stack") that includes two blue filter layers. This is a departure from the G4 that had a micro-lens array but the differences equate to the higher brightness. The G5 has an anti-reflective treatment that has been certified by safety organization UL as "glare free." The G5 comes with a 120Hz native refresh rate for smoother motion, as well as Dolby Vision and HDR 10 for more vivid gaming and movie watching. The TV is compatible with Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync Premium with 165Hz VRR for console and PC gaming.  120Hz Native (VRR 144Hz)Four HDMI inputs with HDMI 2.1, HDCP 2.2Three USB 2.0 portsOptical digital audio outputRF (antenna) inputRS-232 port (minijack, for service only)Ethernet (LAN) portWi-Fi 6EWhile LG was one of the first adopters of the NextGen TV (ATSC 3.0) standard, the company has not included tuners in its TVs since 2023.
High-end OLED comparison: LG G5 vs. LG C5 vs. Samsung S95D
TV and movies While I was able to get a perfectly great picture via Netflix or Fandango at Home, I didn't realize the TV's full potential until I broke out the Blu-ray player. With the right material, the G5 is noticeably brighter than the G4. From my experience, Fandango at Home is one of the best ways to watch streaming movies, with higher-than-normal bit rates. Yet, when set to their respective Filmmaker Modes, the LG C4, LG C5, LG G5 and Samsung S95D all behaved very similarly when watching my selection of test movies. I also compared these TVs against a TCL QM8, and it was the only one that demonstrated the most significant differences (spoiler, it looked worse than the OLEDs). The opening scene of It Part One is a great test of a TV's capabilities with its high-contrast images and I was a little surprised to see the four OLEDs perform to a similar level. As Georgie starts to descend the stairs into the basement you will see an area of wall next to the railing with some low-level shadow detail. The C4, C5 and TCL shadows looked a little more detailed than the G5 and Samsung but it was only by a small amount -- I had to look really hard.  In the intercut shots of his brother Bill, the view through the windows looked a lot brighter and bluer on the TCL than the OLEDs. The drawbacks of LCD technology were also on display in the cellar as there was a little bit of blue hazing in completely black areas of the screen -- and this is something that OLED doesn't do, the pixel is simply off. After inconclusive results with it, I tried a number of colorful and very dynamic movies including Mad Max: Fury Road. In Mad Max (at 4:48) there is a moment in a chase scene where the war boys are fighting Max in a water-filled room. There is a flame at the right of the frame that looked a little brighter on the G5 than the others. The G5 also had a little more solidity to it, but again, not much.  I followed that up, then, with a 4K Blu-ray test disc from Spears and Munsil comprising mostly static footage and, apart from gaming, here is where the C5 and G5 showed the differences in performance. The C5 still looked very good, with deep contrast and plenty of color saturation, but the G5 showed where the extra $600 was going: brighter images and clearer, less-green snowy fields. White was more vibrant on the G5 while the C5 was a little green and color popped a little better on the G5, too. Most movies don't look like test discs but at least I could finally see a difference between the two. Read more: How We Test TVs Bright room Light output in nits
TVBrightest mode (HDR)Accurate mode (HDR)Brightest mode (SDR)Accurate mode (SDR) LG G5 2,8132,2971,030412LG C5 1,4341,187480288TCL QM851 3,1833,1833,0841,262Hisense U8Q 4,0804,0704,107436Samsung S95D 1,7341,666544265Samsung S95F 2,1502,150391297LG G4 1,7991,420792792LG C4 1,213968414390
With its ultra-high brightness the LG G5 is already a great candidate for bright room viewing but this OLED also does a great job dealing with annoying TV glare. In terms of reflectivity I graded each of the OLED TVs subjectively from worst to best: LG C4> LG C5 > LG G5 > Samsung S95D. The G5 had the second-least reflective screen but the "winner" Samsung had another potential issue. It had the lightest black levels that translated to kind of gray in a lit room. That's the compromise with the Samsung vs the LG G5, you can choose either deep blacks or more reflectivity. I have tested the brightness of the flagship 2025 Samsung S95F and found that it is not as bright, about 2100 lumens, but have yet to compare it formally head-to-head. Watch this space. With its gamma of roughly 2.4 in Filmmaker Mode, the G5 is designed to be watched in a dark room, although its high brightness offsets this a little.
Gaming I'd argue that the two main reasons to buy a high-end TV like this are to a) watch movies and b) play HDR games. Well, having tested it, I can say these ARE the two reasons to buy it -- it's great at both. Gaming image quality is where the G5 really pulled ahead of the others, with more consistency than with movies. In a lineup of four OLED TVs, the G5 had the clearest-looking gaming mode on my Xbox Series X -- brighter than the Samsung and two C series LGs. I played Call of Duty, which had better HDR contrast on the G5, although the Samsung did have slightly better color. I played several different games on my four-TV setup and it was here that the biggest differences between the G5, in particular, and the rest of the lineup appeared. While the C5 looked as good as the higher-end Samsung S95D during games, it didn't stand up to the G5. The G5's pixel response time as tested with the Leo Bodnar test units was about 9ms with Game Optimizer Boost mode enabled (Settings>General>Game Optimizer>Game>Prevent Input Delay>Boost). This response time is equivalent to the best I've seen with TVs like the Samsung S95D or the Roku Pro Series. The TL:DR is: this TV is great for gaming.
Uniformity and viewing angle The G5 was consistent with most OLED TVs in that its picture was uniform across the panel. When viewed off-angle there was no appreciable color shift which means the G5 will look good whether you're in the dead center or sitting in the grandparent chair.
Picture settings and testing notes In testing -- both in measurements and in the real world -- the G5 is a massive improvement over the G4 from brightness to color and more. It's worth mentioning that some TVs can give a better response in darkness than the G5, which has a Gamma 2.4. This "gamma curve" may be an industry standard but in our tests, 2.2 gives a better experience with more shadow detail. Filmmaker mode proved to be the overall best picture mode on the G5, both from our quantitative measurements and with the bare eye. Cinema mode was a close second but it enables some smoothing, which can create the often undesirable soap opera effect. LG C5 test measurements
TestResultScore Black luminance (0%) 0.000GoodPeak white luminance (SDR) 1030GoodAvg. gamma (10-100%) 2.39AverageAvg. grayscale error (10-100%) 1.66GoodDark gray error (30%) 1.00GoodBright gray error (80%) 2.06GoodAvg. color checker error 1.21GoodAvg. saturation sweeps error 1.24GoodAvg. color error 1.80Good1080p/24 Cadence (IAL) PassGoodInput lag (Game mode) 9.87Good HDR10Black luminance (0%) 0.000GoodPeak white luminance (10% win) 2813GoodGamut % UHDA/P3 (CIE 1976) 99.81GoodColorMatch HDR error 1.63GoodAvg. color checker error 1.01GoodInput lag (Game mode, 4K HDR) 9.33Good
Portrait Displays Calman calibration software was used in this review.
CNET TV Coverage
TV Types
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best Gaming TV
Best TV Deals
Best 4k TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best OLED TV Deals
Best Apple TV Deals
TV Sizes
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best 55-Inch TV
Best 43-Inch TV
Best 32-Inch TV
Streaming & TV Accessories
CNET Streaming TV Insider
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
TV Information
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
HDMI vs Optical
TV Resolutions Explained
LCD vs OLED
How to Connect a VCR to Your New TV
TY PENDLEBURY
Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.