The best 75-inch TVs of 2025: Expert tested and reviewed | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Updated on: December 10, 2024 at 11:44 AM PST
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
TVs
Updated on: December 10, 2024 at 11:44 AM PST
The best 75-inch TVs you can buy: Expert tested
We tested the best 75-inch TVs from Samsung, Sony, LG, Hisense, and TCL to fit all budgets and needs.
Written by
Taylor Clemons, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Reviewed by
Allison Jewell
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Samsung S95D | Best 75-inch TV overall
Best 75-inch TV overall
Samsung S95D
View now View at Amazon Sony Bravia 9 | Best 75-inch Mini-LED TV
Best 75-inch Mini-LED TV
Sony Bravia 9
View now View at Amazon Hisense UHD A7 Series | Best budget 75-inch TV
Best budget 75-inch TV
Hisense UHD A7 Series
View now View at Amazon TCL QM8 | Best 75-inch TV for streaming
Best 75-inch TV for streaming
TCL QM8
View now View at Amazon Samsung QN90D | Best 75-inch TV for gaming
Best 75-inch TV for gaming
Samsung QN90D
View now View at Best Buy
Best tv deals of the week
75-inch TCL QM6K 4K QD-Mini LED Google TV (2025 Model):  $850 (save $150)
85-inch Samsung Q60D Series 4K QLED Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,200 (save $498)
65-inch LG C4 Series 4K 120Hz OLED Evo Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,297 (save $1,403)
65-inch Samsung S90D Series 4K OLED 144Hz Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,298 (save $400)
75-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K Full Array LED Smart TV (2023 Model):  $1,198 (save $602) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
If you're looking for a new television, a 75-inch set is the sweet spot. It's not quite as overwhelming as an 85-inch TV or a 98-inch TV, but it's still big enough to be an eye-catching centerpiece for most homes. At the top of the list of best 75-inch TVs, you'll find the names you expect, like Samsung, Sony, and LG. These sets are full of features like object-tracking sound, OLED panels, and even 8K resolution that make any content look amazing. If you need budget-friendly TV models though, brands like TCL and Hisense still hold their own. These sets come at a lower price point because they cut some features, but the picture is still very high quality. What is the best 75-inch TV right now?ZDNET editors have tested tons of TVs this year to help you make the best decision for your home. Based on our hands-on experience, our pick for the best 75-inch TV is the Samsung S95D. It provides an unmatched viewing experience thanks to its anti-reflection, Pantone-validated display that's impressively thin, and sound is no slouch either, with Dolby Atmos support and Object Tracking Sound+. Keep reading to find out more about the Samsung S95D
and our other top picks for the best 75-inch TVs.Also: Best smart TV VPNs of 2025
Sort by
All
The best 75-inch TVs of 2025 Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best Buy The Samsung S95D is our top choice for a 75-inch TV to upgrade your living room or home theater. ZDNET's editor-in-chief Jason Hiner called it the "best TV of CES 2024 and best in the world right now," and it's not hard to see why.This was already one of the best TVs on the market, and the addition of an anti-reflective display and a bundle of AI-powered features make this a seriously impressive set. Hiner noted that this TV had the best combination of color, detail, contrast, dynamic range, and picture quality of any TV at this year's CES. The OLED HDR Pro technology works beautifully on the upgraded panel, and the 144Hz refresh rate means both fast-paced movies and games are ultra-smooth. The screen is Pantone-validated for color accuracy. Built-in speakers work with Dolby Atmos for virtual surround sound, and Samsung's Object Tracking Sound+ provides audio that moves along with the on-screen action. Review: Samsung S95DSamsung S95D tech specs Screen size: 77 inches | Panel type: OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: OLED HDR Pro | Audio: Dolby Atmos, Object Tracking Sound+ | Voice controls: Alexa, Bixby, Hey Google
Pros
Pantone-validated screen
Dolby Atmos and Object Tracking Sound+
Anti-glare screen coating
Dedicated gaming hub
Cons
No Dolby Vision support
Samsung S95D Best 75-inch TV overall
The Samsung S95D is our top choice for a 75-inch TV to upgrade your living room or home theater. ZDNET's editor-in-chief Jason Hiner called it the "best TV of CES 2024 and best in the world right now," and it's not hard to see why.This was already one of the best TVs on the market, and the addition of an anti-reflective display and a bundle of AI-powered features make this a seriously impressive set. Hiner noted that this TV had the best combination of color, detail, contrast, dynamic range, and picture quality of any TV at this year's CES. The OLED HDR Pro technology works beautifully on the upgraded panel, and the 144Hz refresh rate means both fast-paced movies and games are ultra-smooth. The screen is Pantone-validated for color accuracy. Built-in speakers work with Dolby Atmos for virtual surround sound, and Samsung's Object Tracking Sound+ provides audio that moves along with the on-screen action. Review: Samsung S95DSamsung S95D tech specs Screen size: 77 inches | Panel type: OLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: OLED HDR Pro | Audio: Dolby Atmos, Object Tracking Sound+ | Voice controls: Alexa, Bixby, Hey Google
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at B&H Photo-Video The Sony Bravia 9 may just be the best TV of 2024. With around 2,000 dimming zones and an impressive 2,700 nits, this set produces colors that most other sets can't. The B9 is Sony's first non-OLED flagship TV in several years, and it comes packed with features like Dolby Vision, Dolby Atmos, DTS:X, and 3D Surround Upscaling, which make almost any audio surround sound. It has a built-in 70W 2.2.2 channel speaker system, and the TV itself serves as a center speaker if you hook up a compatible sound system.Sony TVs already have some of the best gaming features available, and the B9 is no different. It has a variable refresh rate, an auto-low latency mode, and a special game settings menu to tweak everything to your liking, plus it supports game screen size adjustment, meaning you can shrink the picture if you have to sit close. Any content is going to look amazing on this set. If you're looking for perhaps the very best available right now, this is it. Sony Bravia 9 tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: Mini-LED | Refresh rate: 120Hz || HDR: Dolby Vision | Audio: Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google
Pros
Excellent picture and sound quality
ATSC 3.0 tuner
AirPlay support
Cons
Viewing angles aren't great
Sony Bravia 9 Best 75-inch Mini-LED TV
The Sony Bravia 9 may just be the best TV of 2024. With around 2,000 dimming zones and an impressive 2,700 nits, this set produces colors that most other sets can't. The B9 is Sony's first non-OLED flagship TV in several years, and it comes packed with features like Dolby Vision, Dolby Atmos, DTS:X, and 3D Surround Upscaling, which make almost any audio surround sound. It has a built-in 70W 2.2.2 channel speaker system, and the TV itself serves as a center speaker if you hook up a compatible sound system.Sony TVs already have some of the best gaming features available, and the B9 is no different. It has a variable refresh rate, an auto-low latency mode, and a special game settings menu to tweak everything to your liking, plus it supports game screen size adjustment, meaning you can shrink the picture if you have to sit close. Any content is going to look amazing on this set. If you're looking for perhaps the very best available right now, this is it. Sony Bravia 9 tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: Mini-LED | Refresh rate: 120Hz || HDR: Dolby Vision | Audio: Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best Buy Buying a big-screen TV doesn't mean you have to spend a fortune. The 75-inch Hisense A7 Series model retails for $649 (and is often on sale), making it one of the more affordable options on the market. And just because it's budget-friendly, that doesn't mean it skimps out on features. It has Dolby Vision and HDR10+, Dolby Atmos and DTS Virtual:X for immersive sound, and there's a "Game Mode Plus" or automatic low latency mode. This model includes an LED panel, which means more dimming zones and better contrast in dark scenes. This is perhaps one of the best mid-range TVs available, and Best Buy reviewers agree, praising this set's features and picture.Hisense U6K tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: Mini-LED | Refresh rate: 60Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision, HDR 10+, HDR 10 | Audio: Dolby Atmos, DTS Virtual:X | Voice controls: Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa
Pros
Under $700
Impressive sound
LED panel
Cons
Only 60Hz refresh rate
Hisense UHD A7 Series Best budget 75-inch TV
Buying a big-screen TV doesn't mean you have to spend a fortune. The 75-inch Hisense A7 Series model retails for $649 (and is often on sale), making it one of the more affordable options on the market. And just because it's budget-friendly, that doesn't mean it skimps out on features. It has Dolby Vision and HDR10+, Dolby Atmos and DTS Virtual:X for immersive sound, and there's a "Game Mode Plus" or automatic low latency mode. This model includes an LED panel, which means more dimming zones and better contrast in dark scenes. This is perhaps one of the best mid-range TVs available, and Best Buy reviewers agree, praising this set's features and picture.Hisense U6K tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: Mini-LED | Refresh rate: 60Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision, HDR 10+, HDR 10 | Audio: Dolby Atmos, DTS Virtual:X | Voice controls: Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at Newegg If you've cut the cord with your cable or satellite provider and moved exclusively to streaming, the TCL QM8 is an excellent option. It uses the Google TV platform to give you a preloaded suite of popular apps, including Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, and Disney+, and access to thousands of other apps to turn your TV into the ultimate entertainment hub.The 120Hz refresh rate provides smooth action for sports, high-intensity movies and shows, and gaming. The QLED panel provides bold, bright colors, sharp contrast, and fine details that make everything from the latest blockbusters to 20-year-old cartoons like Teen Titans look their best. With Dolby Vision support, you'll get enhanced detailing and contrast with upscaled, sub-4K media.I got to do some hands-on testing with the TCL QM8, and the screen looks just as good in person as it does in photos. Colors pop in shows, movies, and games, and both music and dialogue sound clean, crisp, and clear, even at higher volumes.Review: TCL QM8TCL QM8 tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: QLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision | Audio: Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google
Pros
Preloaded apps
Great picture and sound quality
120Hz refresh rate
Cons
Doesn't power on when connected devices are
Doesn't auto switch input when device is connected
TCL QM8 Best 75-inch TV for streaming
If you've cut the cord with your cable or satellite provider and moved exclusively to streaming, the TCL QM8 is an excellent option. It uses the Google TV platform to give you a preloaded suite of popular apps, including Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, and Disney+, and access to thousands of other apps to turn your TV into the ultimate entertainment hub.The 120Hz refresh rate provides smooth action for sports, high-intensity movies and shows, and gaming. The QLED panel provides bold, bright colors, sharp contrast, and fine details that make everything from the latest blockbusters to 20-year-old cartoons like Teen Titans look their best. With Dolby Vision support, you'll get enhanced detailing and contrast with upscaled, sub-4K media.I got to do some hands-on testing with the TCL QM8, and the screen looks just as good in person as it does in photos. Colors pop in shows, movies, and games, and both music and dialogue sound clean, crisp, and clear, even at higher volumes.Review: TCL QM8TCL QM8 tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: QLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Dolby Vision | Audio: Dolby Atmos | Voice controls: Alexa, Hey Google
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Best BuyView now at B&H Photo-VideoView now at Crutchfield The Samsung QN90D is almost purpose-built for console gaming. With a base refresh rate of 120Hz that can be boosted up to 144Hz with integrated AMD FreeSync Premium Pro VRR, screen tearing and stuttering is a thing of the past. It also has native support for cloud gaming services like Xbox GamePass and Nvidia GeForce Now so you can play your favorite games with or without a console or PC. Also: OLED vs QLED: Which is better for youWith object tracking sound, you'll get audio that follows the on-screen action, and Dolby Atmos virtual surround sound support gives you room-filling audio for a more immersive experience without a headset. With 4 HDMI ports, you can connect multiple consoles or even your gaming PC to easily switch between them as the mood strikes. And with screen sharing support, you can send videos, photos, and more to your TV straight from your mobile device. Samsung QN90D tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: Neo QLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Neo Quantum HDR+ | Audio: Dolby Atmos, Object Tracking Sound | Voice controls: Alexa, Bixby, Hey Google
Pros
AMD FreeSync Premium Pro VRR
Object tracking sound
Up to 144Hz refresh rate
Cloud gaming support
Cons
No G-Sync support
No Chromecast support
Samsung QN90D Best 75-inch TV for gaming
The Samsung QN90D is almost purpose-built for console gaming. With a base refresh rate of 120Hz that can be boosted up to 144Hz with integrated AMD FreeSync Premium Pro VRR, screen tearing and stuttering is a thing of the past. It also has native support for cloud gaming services like Xbox GamePass and Nvidia GeForce Now so you can play your favorite games with or without a console or PC. Also: OLED vs QLED: Which is better for youWith object tracking sound, you'll get audio that follows the on-screen action, and Dolby Atmos virtual surround sound support gives you room-filling audio for a more immersive experience without a headset. With 4 HDMI ports, you can connect multiple consoles or even your gaming PC to easily switch between them as the mood strikes. And with screen sharing support, you can send videos, photos, and more to your TV straight from your mobile device. Samsung QN90D tech specs: Screen size: 75 inches | Panel type: Neo QLED | Refresh rate: 120Hz | Resolution: 4K | HDR: Neo Quantum HDR+ | Audio: Dolby Atmos, Object Tracking Sound | Voice controls: Alexa, Bixby, Hey Google
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is the best 75-inch TV?
My choice for the best 75-inch TV is the Samsung S95D. It has a Pantone-validated display for enhanced color accuracy, while the anti-glare coating helps improve visibility in bright rooms or harsh daylight conditions. It also works with both Dolby Atmos and Samsung's own Object Tracking Sound+ technology for room-filling virtual surround sound that follows the on-screen action for a more immersive experience while streaming movies and shows or playing video games. Gamers will also love the dedicated gaming hub, which gives you access to cloud gaming services like Xbox GamePass as well as support for Nvidia G-Sync and AMD FreeSync VRR.Best 75-inch TVPriceAudio/HDRResolution/refresh rateSamsung S95D$3,800Dolby Atmos, Object Tracking Sound+/Neo Quantum HDR+4K, 120HzSony Bravia 9$3,499Dolby Atmos, Acoustic Surface Audio+/ Dolby Vision4K, 120HzHisense UHD A7$500Dolby Atmos, DTS Virtual:X, Dolby Vision, HDR 10+4K, 60HzSamsung QN90D$1,800Dolby Atmos, Object Tracking Sound+/Neo Quantum HDR+4K, Up to 144HzTCL QM8$1,500Dolby Atmos, Dolby Vision4K, 120Hz*MSRP at time of writing. Please note that prices may vary based on retailer and available promotions, sales, or discounts.
Show more
Which 75-inch TV is right for you?
To help you choose the best 75-inch TV, I spoke with Rob Brennan, product manager for Sony's home entertainment and sound departments. He suggests focusing on what you watch, where you watch it, and how you watch movies and shows.  "Movie buffs can benefit from enhanced contrast. Gamers and sports fans can benefit from enhanced brightness and color, and general TV watching can benefit from all three," said Brennan when asked about TVs for specific entertainment genres.  You may want a 75-inch TV for general use, like catching up on the local news or staying up-to-date on the latest hit shows. In that case, you'll want a model that balances contrast, brightness, and color to get the best picture possible.  Movie buffs should choose a TV that prioritizes contrast to bring the viewing experience closer to theatre quality. Gamers and sports fans will want a bright TV that provides consistent picture quality both day and night.  Buy this best 75-inch TV...If you need...Samsung S95DThe best 75-inch TV on the market. This is a set that will look beautiful in any environment.Sony Bravia 9A 75-inch Mini-LED TV. The Sonly Bravia 9 has impressive brightnessHisense UHD A7A budget-friendly 75-inch TV. The Hisense A7 retails for under $700, making it one of the more affordable options on the market. 				Samsung QN90DA high-quality 75-inch gaming TV. The Samsung QN90D has native cloud gaming support, up to a 144Hz refresh rate, and support for AMD FreeSync Premium Pro VRR.TCL QM8 				A 75-inch TV for streaming movies and shows. The TCL QM8 has AirPlay and Chromecast built-in and support for voice controls and thousands of streaming apps.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing a 75-inch TV
When you're picking out which 75-inch TV is right for you, there are a few things you'll want to consider first:Use cases: If you're mostly streaming shows and movies, you should consider a TV that heavily focuses on picture quality. If you're a gamer, you're going to want a TV with special menus and options to optimize your gaming sessions. If you're a techie and like to fine-tune things, buy a TV that lets you dive deep into video and audio options. If you're a newcomer to the space, one that has a more simple operating system is likely best.Where you'll be watching TV: Where you watch TV in your home matters. If your setup is in a living room with a lot of natural light, you might want to choose a different set than one you would for a dark theater room. Price: Consider your budget before you buy. Are you fine with purchasing a cheaper option that looks good but cuts out some features, or are you investing in a top-of-the-line set with all the bells and whistles? Ports: Do you have a lot of peripherals like video game consoles, a sound bar, and a cable box? All TVs today have multiple HDMI inputs, but if you have a lot of things to connect, you'll likely run into an issue where there aren't enough premium ports for everything on some sets. If you're in this category, pick a TV that has all the ports you need. Mounted or standing: Some sets are specifically designed to lay flat against a wall while some can be mounted but look less sleek. If you're mounting your TV, pick one of the premium options that will look better. If you're using a stand, do some research to make sure the stand for that set fits your setup, as leg widths vary.
Show more
How we test TVs
While testing and researching each TV featured on this list, I and other ZDNET experts kept these criteria in mind:Price: While big-screen TVs tend to be more on the expensive side, that doesn't mean you have to spend a fortune to upgrade your home theater. I've done my best to include 75-inch TVs at different price points to fit a variety of budgets.Picture and audio quality: Whether you still watch broadcast TV or have moved exclusively to streaming, buying a new TV doesn't mean much if the picture and audio quality are less than stellar. Each 75-inch TV on this list has support for various HDR codecs, including HDR10+ and Dolby Vision, as well as premium audio like Dolby Atmos virtual surround sound or object tracking audio.Extra features: Televisions are becoming one-stop entertainment hubs for living rooms and home theaters. Not only do buyers expect to instantly stream their favorite shows and movies, but also music, photos, web pages, and even video calls. I've ensured that each featured 75-inch TV has a variety of extra features like voice controls, preloaded streaming apps, gallery modes, and support for video calls or streaming media from mobile devices.
Show more
How can I know if a 75-inch TV will fit in my room?
You need a pretty big space to make a 75-inch TV feel like it belongs. The best way to ensure that it's going to fit well in your room is to measure the distance (in inches) from where the TV will be wall-mounted or placed on a stand to where you will most likely be sitting, then divide that distance in half. So if your couch is about 150 inches (around 12.5 feet) from where your TV is going to be, then a 75-inch model will be just about the perfect size. You can, of course, go a bit bigger or smaller depending on what is available from each brand and what your budget allows. But a screen that is too big may overwhelm your space and even cause motion sickness, while one that is entirely too small will make your room feel like a giant cavern and force everyone to crowd around the TV to watch the news.Also: Best TV screen cleaners of 2025
Show more
What is the difference between 4K and 8K?
A 4K TV has a resolution of 3840 x 2160 pixels, while an 8K TV has a resolution of 7680 x 4320 pixels, which means an 8K TV has four times as many pixels as a 4K TV. This can result in sharper and more detailed images, especially on larger screens.
Show more
Do I need a TV with HDR10 or Dolby Vision support?
While almost all new 4K televisions have support for HDR, not all of them have HDR10 or Dolby Vision support. HDR is just a fancy way of saying the TV is capable of boosting color, contrast, and image-sharpening algorithms to produce a better picture. It isn't strictly necessary to buy a TV that has these features.Unless you're the world's premier movie expert and can spot a dead pixel at 20 paces, chances are you won't notice much of a difference anyway. However, if you want to ensure that your TV can handle image processing for several years, it's worth springing for a model with HDR10 or Dolby Vision. They are newer, more powerful technologies that can future-proof your home theater to some degree.
Show more
Why are big-screen TVs so expensive?
The sarcastic answer: because they can be. But in reality, bigger-screen TVs are cheaper than ever. They are more expensive than other sizes, though, because they cost more to produce, and that makes the final retail price higher. It costs more to create a 75-inch LED, QLED, or OLED panel than it does a 43-inch or 55-inch screen since it requires more raw materials, engineering, and production resources. In the case of OLED panels, the technology isn't cost-effective, so they retail for higher prices to offset manufacturing costs.The good news? Right now is one of the best times to buy. Many companies have announced the 2023 lineup, so retailers are clearing out the 2022 stock to make way for upgraded panels. If any of these TVs feel like the right fit for your home, your dollar may be able to stretch farther.Also: QLED vs OLED: Which is the better fit?
Show more
More 75-inch TVs to consider
Great for streaming Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED The Amazon Fire TV Omni QLED is almost perfect for anyone who has cut the cord and moved exclusively to streaming. With access to hundreds of apps and excellent picture and audio quality, you can enjoy old classics and new blockbusters as they were meant to be seen.
View at Amazon
Runner-up best budget Roku Select The Roku Select is the brand's entry-level TV, which means you can snag a 75-inch model for well under $1,000.
View at Best Buy
ZDNET’s TV Guide
TVs Roundups
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
TV Models Reviewed and Compared
Sony A80L OLED TV review
Apple TV 4K Review
Samsung QN800B OLED 8K TV Review
Samsung 65-inch QN90B QLED TV Review
Hisense 65-inch U8H 4K TV Review
LG vs Samsung TV
Samsung Frame TV 2024 vs 2023
LG G4 vs Samsung S95D
LG G4 vs G3
LG G3 vs Samsung S95C
TVs Explained
Crystal UHD vs QLED
NEO QLED vs OLED
OLED vs LED
OLED vs QLED
Mini LED vs OLED TV
How to screen mirror an iPhone to a Samsung TV
How to clear the cache on your TV
Should you buy an 8K TV?
How to clean a flat screen TV or monitor
How to calibrate your TV for the best picture
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use