Cloud Migration - Amazon Web Services
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Cloud Migration
Overview
How to Migrate
Customers
Resources
Partners
Migrate. Modernize. Build.›
Cloud Migration
Migrate and Modernize with AWS
Accelerate innovation and optimize costs by migrating and modernizing your applications and data with AWS
Free migration assessment
Build your migration and modernization business case
Don’t just move to the cloud. Transform with AWS.
Leverage our unmatched experience and proven solutions to drive success at every step of your migration and modernization journey. From lifting and shifting, to replatforming and refactoring applications, AWS provides the organizational, operational, and technical capabilities you need for a successful transformation. And with the deepest set of migration and modernization services, programs, and specialized partners, you can start quickly realizing the business value of AWS.
Why migrate to AWS?
infrastructure cost savings*
* "Maximizing Economic Advantages by Migrating to AWS Cloud Infrastructure," Enterprise Strategy Group, 2023
reduction in licenses required*
lower time to market for new features*
AWS for Windows Server
Migrate, optimize, and modernize Windows Server and drive innovation with your Windows-based applications on AWS. With over 15 years’ experience, AWS can help you reduce your reliance on Microsoft licensing, drive agility with serverless and containers and simplify your transition to open-source alternatives.
Play
AWS for SAP
Accelerate your RISE with SAP transformation or migrate existing SAP systems. Leverage AWS’s leading innovations in generative AI, analytics, and IoT to unlock new insights, differentiate your customer experience, accelerate growth, and improve operational efficiency.
Play
AWS for VMware
AWS, the cloud provider with the longest track record of helping VMware customers at scale, offers dependable solutions for migration and modernization, ensuring a seamless transition to the cloud. Discover our tailor-made services, programs, and incentives designed to facilitate the migration of VMware workloads, modernize to containers and serverless architectures, or transition to managed services.
AWS for SQL Server
Migrate and modernize SQL Server on AWS for best price performance, license flexibility, ease of use, and innovations to manage, access, and scale your data. Simplify SQL Server administration with managed services like Amazon RDS or accelerate innovation with purpose-built cloud databases like Amazon Aurora.
Salesforce migrates its Marketing Cloud to AWS
Play
AWS for Mainframe
Confidently modernize and migrate your mainframe-based business applications to fully-managed, secure, and scalable cloud environments with global reach. Access proven toolsets, deep expertise, and certified competency partners to refactor, replatform and augment mainframe applications using AWS.
Citizens Bank enhances digital experiences using AWS Mainframe Modernization
Play
.NET Application
Build high-performing .NET applications using our industry-leading services in containers, serverless, databases, machine learning, and more. AWS flattens the learning curve for .NET developers with tools that make it easier to be productive with .NET on AWS.
AWS Migration and Modernization Solutions
AWS Optimization and Licensing Assessment
Assess and optimize your current on-premises and cloud environments and explore reductions in third-party licensing costs for Windows Server, SQL Server, and VMware applications with the free AWS Optimization Licensing Assessment (OLA).
AWS Migration Acceleration Program
The AWS Migration Acceleration Program (MAP) is a comprehensive and proven cloud migration program based on our experience migrating thousands of enterprise customers to the cloud. MAP provides tools that reduce costs, automate execution, and accelerate results.
AWS Migration and Modernization Services
Our comprehensive portfolio of AWS migration and modernization services provide the capabilities you need—including automation and intelligent recommendations based on AWS machine learning—to simplify and accelerate each step of the transformation journey.
AWS Competency Partners
AWS Migration Competency Partners help you modernize and transform your applications while moving to AWS to reduce cost, increase agility, and improve security. Organizations can accelerate their migration and reap cloud benefits faster with AWS Partners.
AWS Executive Guidance
Navigating the Cloud: Migration and Modernization
Proven guidance for executives on migrating applications and data to AWS, continuous modernization in AWS, and accelerating business value with AI.
Customer Stories
1
/
5
Customer Story
Quality Bicycle Products Migrates to VMware Cloud on AWS in under 18 Months
Learn more
Video
Apollo Tyres Unlocks Productivity Gains with AWS
Learn more
Case study
PayByPhone Modernizes by Using Windows Containers on AWS
Learn more
Case study
Salesforce Migrates Its Marketing Cloud to AWS
Learn more
Case study
Avionté Achieved 99.999% Availability by Migrating Microsoft Workloads to AWS
Learn more
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.