Travel | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Travel
U.S. passports
Travel documents for children
Get a REAL ID
Travel to or within the U.S.
Declare money to customs when you travel
U.S. citizens traveling abroad
Travel documents for foreign citizens returning to the U.S.
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Travel
Travel
Most popular
Find out how to apply for or renew your U.S. passport
Get information about international travel documents for minors
Learn how to get an international driver’s license to drive in the U.S.
Learn about passports, travel documents for minors, and travel to, from, and within the U.S.
U.S. passports
Find out how to apply for or renew a passport and what to do if your passport is lost or stolen.
International travel documents for children
See what documents a child needs to travel to or from the U.S. alone or with a parent or relative.
How to get a REAL ID and use it for travel
The REAL ID Act sets higher security standards for state-issued driver's licenses and ID cards.
Travel to or within the U.S.
As a visitor, find out which documents you will need to travel to and drive in the U.S.
How much money can you bring into and out of the U.S.?
There is a limit on how much undeclared money you can bring into and out of the U.S. Find out how much, how to declare it, and what the penalties are if you do not report it.
U.S. citizens traveling abroad
Learn about visa requirements, Trusted Traveler Programs like Global Entry, emergencies, and more.
Travel documents for foreign citizens returning to the U.S.
As a non-citizen U.S. resident, learn what documents you need to return to the U.S. if you leave.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests