Amazon settles lawsuit over Prime subscriptions
: NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Amazon settles lawsuit over Prime subscriptions
Federal regulators say Amazon has agreed to pay a historic sum to resolve their allegations that its web designs manipulated millions of people into paying for Prime subscriptions, which were also purposefully hard to cancel. Affected shoppers are slated to receive payouts.
Business
Amazon to pay $2.5 billion to settle U.S. lawsuit that it 'tricked' people into Prime
Updated September 25, 202512:55 PM ET
Originally published September 25, 202511:23 AM ET
Heard on
All Things Considered
By
Alina Selyukh
,
Monica Nickelsburg
Amazon to pay $2.5 billion to settle U.S. lawsuit that it 'tricked' people into Prime
Listen
·
3:44
3:44
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5551026/nx-s1-9467664" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Amazon Prime pedicab delivery person on New York City Streets, Manhattan.
UCG/UCG/Universal Images Group via G/Universal Images Group Editorial
hide caption
toggle caption
UCG/UCG/Universal Images Group via G/Universal Images Group Editorial
Amazon has agreed to pay a historic $2.5 billion to settle a landmark case over its Prime membership program. The U.S. government had alleged the company's web designs manipulated tens of millions of people into paying for subscriptions that were purposefully hard to cancel. Amazon, without admitting wrongdoing, will pay $1 billion in civil penalties to the government and another $1.5 billion in payments to affected consumers, according to court documents. The company, in its statement, said it and its executives "have always followed the law and this settlement allows us to move forward and focus on innovating for customers."
Sponsor Message
Millions of people who paid for Amazon Prime between mid-2019 and mid-2025 are expected to automatically receive reimbursements of up to $51, while other Amazon users will be able to submit claims for refunds. Their eligibility will depend on how many Prime perks those shoppers used besides free shipping. Amazon will explain the matter on its website and will make other changes to how Prime subscription options are displayed to shoppers.
Cost of Living
Why beef prices are higher than ever (and shoppers are finally resisting)
The FTC, which regulates competition, brought the lawsuit in 2023 zeroing in on Prime, which last year helped Amazon take in more than $44 billion in subscription revenue. People who pay for Prime are known to shop more frequently and spend more; Amazon last disclosed its Prime subscribers' count at more than 200 million people in 2021.
The federal lawsuit accused Amazon of illegally using "manipulative, coercive, or deceptive" designs to "trick" shoppers into enrolling in auto-renewing Prime subscriptions, which currently cost $139 a year or $14.99 a month. Regulators also alleged that Amazon purposefully built a convoluted, multi-step cancellation process to discourage people from quitting — and repeatedly backtracked on plans to simplify the process as this led to fewer subscribers. The case went to trial just this week, in Amazon's hometown of Seattle. Somewhat unusually for a dense antitrust case, a jury was slated to determine whether Amazon broke the law.
Sponsor Message
Throughout the court battle, Amazon denied breaking any laws. It argued its sign-up and cancellation processes were simple and clear to the vast majority of Prime users, and that its designs and disclosures followed or even surpassed widely used industry standards.
The settlement deal comes on the heels of testimony by a key FTC witness: former Amazon user experience researcher, Reid Nelson.
Business
Starbucks is closing more stores and laying off 900 workers
Emails and text messages from Nelson revealed that he and his team had repeatedly flagged Amazon's design tactics as misleading or confusing to customers. In one message, Nelson said Amazon's business goals would be very difficult to hit if Prime web design was more transparent. During cross examination, Amazon lawyers said the company has spent more than $10 million to solve customer frustration issues like the ones flagged by Nelson and his team. Amazon still faces another, bigger federal lawsuit, in which the FTC has accused the company of functioning as a monopoly. The tech giant has described it as "wrong on the facts and on the law." That trial is expected in early 2027, in front of the same judge, John Chun of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington. Editor's note: Amazon is among NPR's recent financial supporters and pays to distribute some NPR content.
Federal Trade Commission
Amazon
Amazon Prime membership
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor