Cereal Milk Latte Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Home Dishes & BeveragesBeveragesCoffee
Cereal Milk Latte
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 10 min. Cook: 5 min.
By
Lauren Habermehl
Recipe by Lauren Habermehl, Pewaukee, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 08, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This cereal milk latte made with Lucky Charms is magically delicious!
Why is it that, as a kid, I never wanted to drink the residual cereal milk from my bowl, but as an adult, I want nothing more than to infuse my morning cup of coffee with it? I guess we’ll chalk it up to aging and changing taste buds. That said, if you find yourself scratching your head at the idea of a cereal milk latte, let me remind you of other coffee-based TikTok recipes that turned out to be surprisingly delicious, like blueberry cloud coffee and the infamous viral Dalgona coffee.
So let’s give cereal milk lattes a chance. In fact, it seems we’ve been doing so for quite some time: This breakfast table mashup first gained prominence in 2018 when Milk Bar in New York City (home of Christina Tosi’s famous confetti cake) introduced cereal milk lattes made with cornflakes. And, even more recently, hot and iced Dunkin’ Cereal N’ Milk lattes have been making waves. This recipe is our own take on the offbeat-yet-scrumptious coffee drink.
How to Make the Best Cereal Milk for Lattes
To make the cereal milk, we opted for Lucky Charms since it is a top-ranked cereal from childhood and has such a nostalgic flavor. We thought that simply steeping the cereal in milk—just like a forgotten bowl of cereal from our youth—would produce the perfect results. However, while the cereal milk produced this way tasted fairly strong on its own, it became too diluted when combined with espresso—even after steeping overnight. We needed a more concentrated cereal milk, so it was back to the drawing board.
In our final iteration, simmering the cereal in milk until the marshmallows dissolved turned out to be the way to go. By melting the marshmallows into the milk, you not only get a super concentrated flavor that can’t be masked by espresso, but you also get the most vibrant color, turning the milk into that nostalgia-inducing, muddy pale blue-green color.
Ingredients for a Cereal Milk Latte
Milk: Our recipe uses 2% milk (which is what most coffeehouses use), but you could also make cereal milk with a nondairy milk alternative of your choice.
Lucky Charms cereal: Because we like cereal milk made with real Lucky Charms cereal, your kids will cry foul that you’re “after their Lucky Charms” once you start stealing it every few days to make a fresh batch of cereal milk for this coffee recipe.
Vanilla syrup: To add additional sweetness to the latte, stir a small amount of vanilla coffee syrup into the espresso before topping it with steamed cereal milk.
Espresso: If you own an espresso maker, you can pull your espresso shots using your machine. Otherwise, invest in an affordable Moka pot to prepare the espresso on the stovetop.
Lucky Charms marshmallows and rainbow nonpareils: While no garnish is necessary, we love the whimsy of topping the finished cereal milk latte with marshmallows and rainbow nonpareils.
Directions
Step 1: Make the cereal milk
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Combine the cereal and milk in a small saucepan over medium heat. Bring it to a simmer and cook, stirring occasionally, until the marshmallows dissolve, about four to five minutes.
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Remove the pan from the heat and strain out the cereal pieces. Chill the milk until it’s cold.
Editor’s Tip: If you don’t have an espresso machine with a steam wand, you can skip chilling the milk and proceed to froth the milk using a milk frothing wand for a few seconds until it’s foamy. If the milk isn’t frothing, let it cool to about 145°F and try again.
Step 2: Prepare the espresso and steam the milk
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Prepare the espresso and then stir in one teaspoon of vanilla syrup to sweeten it. Next, steam the cereal milk using your espresso machine’s steam wand until it reaches the desired temperature and consistency.
Step 3: Assemble the cereal milk latte
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Pour the steamed cereal milk over the espresso and garnish the latte with a few Lucky Charms marshmallows and rainbow nonpareils. Serve it immediately
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Cereal Milk Latte Variations
Served it iced: For an iced cereal milk latte, fill a tall glass with ice and pour the espresso over it. Add the vanilla syrup and stir, then top with the chilled cereal milk.
Make cold foam for an iced cereal milk latte: For an extra blast of cereal milk flavor, top the latte with a cloud of cereal milk cold foam. To make cereal milk cold foam, soak 1/2 cup of Lucky Charms in 1/2 cup of heavy cream for one to two hours. Strain it to remove the cereal from the cream and add one teaspoon of vanilla syrup. Next, use a milk frothing wand to beat the cream until it doubles in volume and becomes thick and creamy. Garnish the iced cereal milk latte with Lucky Charms marshmallows and rainbow nonpareils.
Try other cereals: You can use other cereals to make this latte, like Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Reese’s Puffs, Cocoa Puffs, Fruity Pebbles, Fruit Loops and Apple Jacks. Cereals that are extra sweet and strongly flavored work best when making a cereal milk latte.
How to Store Cereal Milk
If you have extra cereal milk leftover or would like to make a double batch, store the cereal milk in an airtight food storage container, such as a Mason jar, and keep it refrigerated.
How long does cereal milk last?
The cereal milk will last three or four days in the refrigerator.
Cereal Milk Latte Tips
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Can you make a cereal milk latte with a different type of coffee?
Yes! If you don’t have the ability to make espresso at home, you have a few options. You can either use instant coffee or instant espresso. We find that five teaspoons of instant coffee dissolved into 1/4 cup of hot water makes a pretty good substitute for a double shot of espresso. Alternatively, 4 to 6 ounces of strongly brewed coffee will come close to the taste of espresso, but will contain less caffeine.
What’s another way to make frothing milk for a latte?
Looking for another way to make a latte without a machine? Grab a Mason jar and fill it with 4 ounces of cereal milk. Then, shake vigorously for one minute until it’s foamy. Next, microwave the milk in 45-second increments until it’s steaming. Pour it over the espresso and enjoy.
Test Kitchen Approved
Cereal Milk Latte
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:1 latte
Prep:10 min
Cook:5 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
8 ounces whole milk
1 cup Lucky Charms cereal
2 ounces brewed espresso
1 to 2 ounces vanilla flavoring syrup
Lucky Charms marshmallows and rainbow nonpareils, for garnish, optional
Text Ingredients
Directions
In a small saucepan over medium heat, combine milk and cereal. Bring to a simmer; cook, stirring occasionally, until the marshmallows dissolve, 4-5 minutes. Remove from heat; strain. Chill.
To assemble, pour brewed espresso into a mug; stir in vanilla syrup. Steam the cereal milk using an espresso machine’s steamer wand. Alternatively, use a frother to froth the cereal milk. Pour over the espresso. Garnish with Lucky Charms marshmallows and rainbow nonpareils, if desired. Serve immediately.
Nutrition Facts
1 latte: 333 calories, 10g fat (4g saturated fat), 23mg cholesterol, 223mg sodium, 55g carbohydrate (41g sugars, 1g fiber), 8g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box