Gerald Ford - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Early life
2
College and law school
3
U.S. Naval Reserve
Toggle U.S. Naval Reserve subsection
3.1
Sea duty
4
U.S. House of Representatives (1949–1973)
Toggle U.S. House of Representatives (1949–1973) subsection
4.1
Warren Commission
4.2
House Minority Leader (1965–1973)
5
Vice presidency (1973–1974)
6
Presidency (1974–1977)
Toggle Presidency (1974–1977) subsection
6.1
Swearing-in
6.2
Nominating Rockefeller
6.3
Pardon of Nixon
6.4
Draft dodgers and deserters
6.5
Administration
6.6
Midterm elections
6.7
Domestic policy
6.7.1
Inflation
6.7.2
Budget
6.7.3
Swine flu
6.7.4
Equal rights and abortion
6.8
Foreign policy
6.8.1
Indonesia and East Timor
6.8.2
Middle East
6.8.3
Vietnam
6.8.4
Mayaguez incident
6.9
Assassination attempts
6.10
Judicial appointments
6.10.1
Supreme Court
6.10.2
Other judicial appointments
6.11
1976 presidential campaign
7
Post-presidency (1977–2006)
Toggle Post-presidency (1977–2006) subsection
7.1
Health issues
8
Death and funeral
9
Personal life
Toggle Personal life subsection
9.1
Family
9.2
Civic and fraternal organizations
9.2.1
Freemasonry
10
Public image
11
Honors
Toggle Honors subsection
11.1
Foreign honors
12
See also
13
References
14
Bibliography
Toggle Bibliography subsection
14.1
Primary sources
15
External links
Toggle External links subsection
15.1
Official sites
15.2
Media coverage
15.3
Other
Toggle the table of contents
Gerald Ford
142 languages
AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛÆngliscالعربيةAragonésArpetanAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهBasa Baliবাংলা閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gíБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)Bikol CentralBislamaБългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoČeštinaChiTumbukaCorsuCymraegDanskالدارجةDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFøroysktFrançaisFryskGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalego客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HawaiʻiՀայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIdoIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaIsiZuluÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaKapampanganქართულიҚазақшаKernowekIkinyarwandaKiswahiliKurdîລາວLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLigureLimburgsLingálaLingua Franca NovaLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa Melayu閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄Монголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपाली日本語NordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRipoarischRomânăRumantschRuna SimiРусскийScotsShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWinaray吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語ZazakiZeêuwsŽemaitėška中文Kadazandusun
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadView sourceView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadView sourceView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikinewsWikiquoteWikisourceWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
President of the United States from 1974 to 1977
This article is about the president of the United States. For other uses, see Gerald Ford (disambiguation).
Gerald FordOfficial portrait, 197438th President of the United StatesIn officeAugust 9, 1974 – January 20, 1977Vice PresidentNelson RockefellerPreceded byRichard NixonSucceeded byJimmy Carter40th Vice President of the United StatesIn officeDecember 6, 1973 – August 9, 1974PresidentRichard NixonPreceded bySpiro AgnewSucceeded byNelson RockefellerMember of the U.S. House of Representativesfrom Michigan's 5th districtIn officeJanuary 3, 1949 – December 6, 1973Preceded byBartel J. JonkmanSucceeded byRichard Vander Veen
House positions
House Minority LeaderIn officeJanuary 3, 1965 – December 6, 1973WhipLeslie C. ArendsPreceded byCharles A. HalleckSucceeded byJohn Jacob RhodesLeader of the House Republican ConferenceIn officeJanuary 3, 1965 – December 6, 1973Preceded byCharles A. HalleckSucceeded byJohn Jacob RhodesChair of the House Republican ConferenceIn officeJanuary 3, 1963 – January 3, 1965LeaderCharles A. HalleckPreceded byCharles B. HoevenSucceeded byMelvin Laird
Personal detailsBornLeslie Lynch King Jr.(1913-07-14)July 14, 1913Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.DiedDecember 26, 2006(2006-12-26) (aged 93)Rancho Mirage, California, U.S.Resting placeGerald R. Ford Presidential MuseumPolitical partyRepublicanSpouse
Betty Bloomer ​(m. 1948)​Children4, including Steven and SusanParentsLeslie Lynch King Sr.Dorothy Ayer Gardner FordEducationUniversity of Michigan (BA)Yale University (LLB)SignatureMilitary serviceBranch/serviceUnited States NavyYears of service1942–1946RankLieutenant CommanderBattles/wars
World War II
Battle of the Philippine Sea
AwardsAmerican Campaign MedalAsiatic–Pacific Campaign Medal (with 9 campaign stars)Philippine Liberation Ribbon (with 2 campaign stars)World War II Victory MedalCollege football careerNo. 48PositionCenterClass1935MajorEconomicsCareer historyHigh schoolGrand Rapids South High SchoolCareer highlights and awards
2× National champion (1932, 1933)
Meyer Morton Award (1932)
Michigan Wolverines No. 48 retired
Ford's voice
Ford's during his
presidential swearing in ceremony.recorded on August 9, 1974
Gerald Rudolph Ford Jr. (born Leslie Lynch King Jr.; July 14, 1913 – December 26, 2006) was the 38th president of the United States, serving from 1974 to 1977. A member of the Republican Party, Ford assumed the presidency after the resignation of President Richard Nixon, under whom he had served as the 40th vice president from 1973 to 1974 following Spiro Agnew's resignation. Prior to that, he served as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1949 to 1973.
Ford was born in Omaha, Nebraska, and raised in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He attended the University of Michigan, where he played for the university football team, before eventually attending Yale Law School. Afterward, he served in the U.S. Naval Reserve from 1942 to 1946. Ford began his political career in 1949 as the U.S. representative from Michigan's 5th congressional district, serving in this capacity for nearly 25 years, the final nine of them as the House minority leader. In December 1973, two months after Spiro Agnew's resignation, Ford became the first person appointed to the vice presidency under the terms of the 25th Amendment. After the subsequent resignation of Nixon in August 1974, Ford immediately assumed the presidency.
Domestically, Ford presided over the worst economy in the four decades since the Great Depression, with growing inflation and a recession.[1] In one of his most controversial acts, he granted a presidential pardon to Nixon for his role in the Watergate scandal. Foreign policy was characterized in procedural terms by the increased role Congress began to play, and by the corresponding curb on the powers of the president.[2] Ford signed the Helsinki Accords, which marked a move toward détente in the Cold War. With the collapse of South Vietnam nine months into his presidency, U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War essentially ended. In the 1976 Republican presidential primary, he narrowly defeated Ronald Reagan for the Republican nomination, but narrowly lost the presidential election to the Democratic candidate, Jimmy Carter. Ford remains the only person to serve as president without winning an election for president or vice president.
Following his years as president, Ford remained active in the Republican Party, but his moderate views on various social issues increasingly put him at odds with conservative members of the party in the 1990s and early 2000s. He also set aside the enmity he had felt towards Carter following the 1976 election and the two former presidents developed a close friendship. After experiencing a series of health problems, he died in Rancho Mirage, California, in 2006. Surveys of historians and political scientists have ranked Ford as a below-average president,[3][4][5] though retrospective public polls on his time in office were more positive.[6][7]
Early life
Ford in 1916
Ford was born Leslie Lynch King Jr. on July 14, 1913, at 3202 Woolworth Avenue in Omaha, Nebraska, where his parents lived with his paternal grandparents. He was the only child of Dorothy Ayer Gardner and Leslie Lynch King Sr., a wool trader. His paternal grandfather was banker and businessman Charles Henry King, and his maternal grandfather was Illinois politician and businessman Levi Addison Gardner. Ford's parents separated just sixteen days after his birth and his mother took the infant Ford with her to Oak Park, Illinois, where her sister Tannisse and brother-in-law Clarence Haskins James lived at 410 N. Humphrey Ave.[8] From there, she moved to the home of her parents in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Gardner and King divorced in December 1913, and she gained full custody of their son. Ford's paternal grandfather paid child support until shortly before his death in 1930.[9]
Ford later said that his biological father had a history of hitting his mother.[10] In a biography of Ford, James M. Cannon wrote that the separation and divorce of Ford's parents was sparked when, a few days after Ford's birth, Leslie King took a butcher knife and threatened to kill his wife, infant son, and Ford's nursemaid. Ford later told confidants that his father had first hit his mother when she had smiled at another man during their honeymoon.[11]
After living with her parents for two and a half years, on February 1, 1917, Gardner married Gerald Rudolff Ford, a salesman in a family-owned paint and varnish company. Though never formally adopted, her young son was referred to as Gerald Rudolff Ford Jr. from then on; the name change, including the anglicized spelling "Rudolph", was formalized on December 3, 1935.[12] He was raised in what is now East Grand Rapids with his three half-brothers from his mother's second marriage: Thomas Gardner "Tom" Ford (1918–1995), Richard Addison "Dick" Ford (1924–2015), and James Francis "Jim" Ford (1927–2001).[13]
Ford was involved in the Boy Scouts of America, and earned that program's highest rank, Eagle Scout in August 1927.[14] He is the only Eagle Scout to have ascended to the U.S. presidency.[14] Ford attended Grand Rapids South High School, where he was a star athlete and captain of the football team.[15] In 1930, he was selected to the All-City team of the Grand Rapids City League. He also attracted the attention of college recruiters.[16]
College and law school
Ford as a center on the University of Michigan Wolverines football team, 1933
Ford attended the University of Michigan, where he played center and linebacker for the school's football team[17] and helped the Wolverines to two undefeated seasons and national titles in 1932 and 1933. In his senior year of 1934, the team suffered a steep decline and won only one game, but Ford was still the team's star player. In one of those games, Michigan held heavily favored Minnesota—the eventual national champion—to a scoreless tie in the first half. After the game, assistant coach Bennie Oosterbaan said, "When I walked into the dressing room at halftime, I had tears in my eyes I was so proud of them. Ford and [Cedric] Sweet played their hearts out. They were everywhere on defense." Ford later recalled, "During 25 years in the rough-and-tumble world of politics, I often thought of the experiences before, during, and after that game in 1934. Remembering them has helped me many times to face a tough situation, take action, and make every effort possible despite adverse odds." His teammates later voted Ford their most valuable player, with one assistant coach noting, "They felt Jerry was one guy who would stay and fight in a losing cause."[18]
During Ford's senior year, a controversy developed when Georgia Tech said that it would not play a scheduled game with Michigan if a Black player named Willis Ward took the field. Students, players and alumni protested, but university officials capitulated and kept Ward out of the game. Ford was Ward's best friend on the team, and they roomed together while on road trips. Ford reportedly threatened to quit the team in response to the university's decision, but he eventually agreed to play against Georgia Tech when Ward personally asked him to play.[19]
In 1934, Ford was selected for the Eastern Team in the Shriners' East–West Shrine Game at San Francisco (a benefit for physically disabled children), played on January 1, 1935. As part of the 1935 Collegiate All-Star football team, Ford played against the Chicago Bears in the Chicago College All-Star Game at Soldier Field.[20] In honor of his athletic accomplishments and his later political career, the University of Michigan retired Ford's No. 48 jersey in 1994. With the blessing of the Ford family, it was placed back into circulation in 2012 as part of the Michigan Football Legends program and issued to sophomore linebacker Desmond Morgan before a home game against Illinois on October 13.[21]
Throughout life, Ford remained interested in his school and football; he occasionally attended games. Ford also visited with players and coaches during practices; at one point, he asked to join the players in the huddle.[22] Before state events, Ford often had the Navy band play the University of Michigan fight song, "The Victors," instead of "Hail to the Chief."[23]
Ford graduated from Michigan in 1935 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics. He turned down offers from the Detroit Lions and Green Bay Packers of the National Football League. Instead, he took a job in September 1935 as the boxing coach and assistant varsity football coach at Yale University[24] and applied to its law school.[25]
Ford hoped to attend Yale Law School beginning in 1935. Yale officials at first denied his admission to the law school because of his full-time coaching responsibilities. In 1936, Ford worked as a seasonal park ranger at Yellowstone National Park's Canyon Station.[26] He then spent the summer of 1937 as a student at the University of Michigan Law School[27] and was eventually admitted in the spring of 1938 to Yale Law School.[24] That year he was also promoted to the position of junior varsity head football coach at Yale.[28] While at Yale, Ford began working as a model. He initially worked with the John Robert Powers agency before investing in the Harry Conover agency, with whom he modelled until 1941.[29]
While attending Yale Law School, Ford joined a group of students led by R. Douglas Stuart Jr., and signed a petition to enforce the 1939 Neutrality Act. The petition was circulated nationally and was the inspiration for the America First Committee, a group determined to keep the U.S. out of World War II.[30] His introduction into politics was in the summer of 1940 when he worked for the Republican presidential campaign of Wendell Willkie.[24]
Ford graduated in the top third of his class in 1941, and was admitted to the Michigan bar shortly thereafter. In May 1941, he opened a Grand Rapids law practice with a friend, Philip W. Buchen.[24]
U.S. Naval Reserve
The Gunnery officers of USS Monterey, 1943. Ford is second from the right, in the front row.
Following the December 7, 1941, attack on Pearl Harbor, Ford enlisted in the Navy.[31] He received a commission as ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve on April 13, 1942.[32] On April 20, he reported for active duty to the V-5 instructor school at Annapolis, Maryland. After one month of training, he went to Navy Preflight School in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, where he was one of 83 instructors and taught elementary navigation skills, ordnance, gunnery, first aid, and military drill. In addition, he coached all nine sports that were offered, but mostly swimming, boxing, and football. During the year he was at the Preflight School, he was promoted to Lieutenant, Junior Grade, on June 2, 1942, and to lieutenant, in March 1943.[33]
Sea duty
After Ford applied for sea duty, he was sent in May 1943 to the pre-commissioning detachment for the new aircraft carrier USS Monterey (CVL-26), at New York Shipbuilding Corporation, Camden, New Jersey. From the ship's commissioning on June 17, 1943, until the end of December 1944, Ford served as the assistant navigator, Athletic Officer, and antiaircraft battery officer on board the Monterey. While he was on board, the carrier participated in many actions in the Pacific Theater with the Third and Fifth Fleets in late 1943 and 1944. In 1943, the carrier helped secure Makin Island in the Gilberts, and participated in carrier strikes against Kavieng, Papua New Guinea in 1943. During the spring of 1944, the Monterey supported landings at Kwajalein and Eniwetok and participated in carrier strikes in the Marianas, Western Carolines, and northern New Guinea, as well as in the Battle of the Philippine Sea.[34] After an overhaul, from September to November 1944, aircraft from the Monterey launched strikes against Wake Island, participated in strikes in the Philippines and Ryukyus, and supported the landings at Leyte and Mindoro.[34]
Although the ship was not damaged by Japanese forces, the Monterey was one of several ships damaged by Typhoon Cobra that hit Admiral William Halsey Jr.'s Third Fleet on December 18–19, 1944. The Third Fleet lost three destroyers and over 800 men during the typhoon. The Monterey was damaged by a fire, which was started by several of the ship's aircraft tearing loose from their cables and colliding on the hangar deck. Ford was serving as General Quarters Officer of the Deck and was ordered to go below to assess the raging fire. He did so safely, and reported his findings back to the ship's commanding officer, Captain Stuart H. Ingersoll. The ship's crew was able to contain the fire, and the ship got underway again.[35]
After the fire, the Monterey was declared unfit for service. Ford was detached from the ship and sent to the Navy Pre-Flight School at Saint Mary's College of California, where he was assigned to the Athletic Department until April 1945. From the end of April 1945 to January 1946, he was on the staff of the Naval Reserve Training Command, Naval Air Station, Glenview, Illinois, at the rank of lieutenant commander.[24]
Ford received the following military awards: the American Campaign Medal, the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with nine 3⁄16" bronze stars (for operations in the Gilbert Islands, Bismarck Archipelago, Marshall Islands, Asiatic and Pacific carrier raids, Hollandia, Marianas, Western Carolines, Western New Guinea, and the Leyte Operation), the Philippine Liberation Medal with two 3⁄16" bronze stars (for Leyte and Mindoro), and the World War II Victory Medal.[31] He was honorably discharged in February 1946.[24][36]
U.S. House of Representatives (1949–1973)
A billboard for Ford's 1948 congressional campaign from Michigan's 5th district
After Ford returned to Grand Rapids in 1946, he became active in local Republican politics, and supporters urged him to challenge Bartel J. Jonkman, the incumbent Republican congressman. Military service had changed his view of the world. "I came back a converted internationalist", Ford wrote, "and of course our congressman at that time was an avowed, dedicated isolationist. And I thought he ought to be replaced. Nobody thought I could win. I ended up winning two to one."[16]
During his first campaign in 1948, Ford visited voters at their doorsteps and as they left the factories where they worked.[37] Ford also visited local farms where, in one instance, a wager resulted in Ford spending two weeks milking cows following his election victory.[38]
Ford was a member of the House of Representatives for 25 years, holding Michigan's 5th congressional district seat from 1949 to 1973. It was a tenure largely notable for its modesty. As an editorial in The New York Times described him, Ford "saw himself as a negotiator and a reconciler, and the record shows it: he did not write a single piece of major legislation in his entire career."[39] Appointed to the House Appropriations Committee two years after being elected, he was a prominent member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Ford described his philosophy as "a moderate in domestic affairs, an internationalist in foreign affairs, and a conservative in fiscal policy."[40] He voted in favor of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957,[41][42] 1960,[43][44] 1964,[45][46] and 1968,[47][48] as well as the 24th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.[49][50][51] Ford was known to his colleagues in the House as a "Congressman's Congressman".[52]
In the early 1950s, Ford declined offers to run for either the U.S. Senate or the Michigan governorship. Rather, his ambition was to become Speaker of the House,[53] which he called "the ultimate achievement. To sit up there and be the head honcho of 434 other people and have the responsibility, aside from the achievement, of trying to run the greatest legislative body in the history of mankind ... I think I got that ambition within a year or two after I was in the House of Representatives".[31]
Warren Commission
Further information: Warren Commission and Assassination of John F. Kennedy
The Warren Commission (Ford 4th from left) presents its report to President Johnson (1964).
On November 29, 1963, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Ford to the Warren Commission, a special task force set up to investigate the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.[54] Ford was assigned to prepare a biography of accused assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. He and Earl Warren also interviewed Jack Ruby, Oswald's killer. According to a 1963 FBI memo that was released to the public in 2008, Ford was in contact with the FBI throughout his time on the Warren Commission and relayed information to the deputy director, Cartha DeLoach, about the panel's activities.[55][56][57] In the preface to his book, A Presidential Legacy and The Warren Commission, Ford defended the work of the commission and reiterated his support of its conclusions.[58]
House Minority Leader (1965–1973)
Congressman Gerald Ford, MSFC director Wernher von Braun, Congressman George H. Mahon, and NASA
Administrator James E. Webb visit the Marshall Space Flight Center for a briefing on the Saturn program, 1964.
In 1964, Lyndon Johnson led a landslide victory for his party, secured another term as president and took 36 seats from Republicans in the House of Representatives. Following the election, members of the Republican caucus looked to select a new minority leader. Three members approached Ford to see if he would be willing to serve; after consulting with his family, he agreed. After a closely contested election, Ford was chosen to replace Charles Halleck of Indiana as minority leader.[59] The members of the Republican caucus that encouraged and eventually endorsed Ford to run as the House minority leader were later known as the "Young Turks". One of the members of the Young Turks was congressman Donald H. Rumsfeld from Illinois's 13th congressional district, who later on would serve in Ford's administration as the chief of staff and secretary of defense.[60]
With a Democratic majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Johnson Administration proposed and passed a series of programs that was called by Johnson the "Great Society". During the first session of the Eighty-ninth Congress alone, the Johnson Administration submitted 87 bills to Congress, and Johnson signed 84, or 96%, arguably the most successful legislative agenda in Congressional history.[61]
In 1966, criticism over the Johnson Administration's handling of the Vietnam War began to grow, with Ford and Congressional Republicans expressing concern that the United States was not doing what was necessary to win the war. Public sentiment also began to move against Johnson, and the 1966 midterm elections produced a 47-seat swing in favor of the Republicans. This was not enough to give Republicans a majority in the House, but the victory gave Ford the opportunity to prevent the passage of further Great Society programs.[59]
Ford's private criticism of the Vietnam War became public knowledge after he spoke from the floor of the House and questioned whether the White House had a clear plan to bring the war to a successful conclusion.[59] The speech angered President Johnson, who accused Ford of having played "too much football without a helmet".[59][62]
As minority leader in the House, Ford appeared in a popular series of televised press conferences with Illinois Senator Everett Dirksen, in which they proposed Republican alternatives to Johnson's policies. Many in the press jokingly called this "The Ev and Jerry Show."[63] Johnson said at the time, "Jerry Ford is so dumb he can't fart and chew gum at the same time."[64] The press, used to sanitizing Johnson's salty language, reported this as "Gerald Ford can't walk and chew gum at the same time."[65]
After Richard Nixon was elected president in November 1968, Ford's role shifted to being an advocate for the White House agenda. Congress passed several of Nixon's proposals, including the National Environmental Policy Act and the Tax Reform Act of 1969. Another high-profile victory for the Republican minority was the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act. Passed in 1972, the act established a revenue sharing program for state and local governments.[66] Ford's leadership was instrumental in shepherding revenue sharing through Congress, and resulted in a bipartisan coalition that supported the bill with 223 votes in favor (compared with 185 against).[59][67]
During the eight years (1965–1973) that Ford served as minority leader, he received many friends in the House because of his fair leadership and inoffensive personality.[59]
Vice presidency (1973–1974)
See also: 1973 United States vice presidential confirmation
Gerald and Betty Ford with the President and First Lady Pat Nixon after President Nixon nominated Ford to be vice president, October 13, 1973
For the past decade, Ford had been unsuccessfully working to help Republicans across the country get a majority in the chamber so that he could become House Speaker. He promised his wife that he would try again in 1974 then retire in 1976.[31] However, on October 10, 1973, Spiro Agnew resigned from the vice presidency.[68] According to The New York Times, Nixon "sought advice from senior Congressional leaders about a replacement." The advice was unanimous. House Speaker Carl Albert recalled later, "We gave Nixon no choice but Ford."[39] Ford agreed to the nomination, telling his wife that the vice presidency would be "a nice conclusion" to his career.[31] Ford was nominated to take Agnew's position on October 12, the first time the vice-presidential vacancy provision of the 25th Amendment had been implemented. The United States Senate voted 92 to 3 to confirm Ford on November 27. On December 6, the House confirmed Ford by a vote of 387 to 35. After the confirmation vote in the House, Ford took the oath of office as vice president.[24]
Ford became vice president as the Watergate scandal was unfolding. On August 1, 1974, Chief of Staff Alexander Haig contacted Ford to tell him to prepare for the presidency.[24] At the time, Ford and his wife, Betty, were living in suburban Virginia, waiting for their expected move into the newly designated vice president's residence in Washington, D.C. However, "Al Haig asked to come over and see me", Ford later said, "to tell me that there would be a new tape released on a Monday, and he said the evidence in there was devastating and there would probably be either an impeachment or a resignation. And he said, 'I'm just warning you that you've got to be prepared, that things might change dramatically and you could become President.' And I said, 'Betty, I don't think we're ever going to live in the vice president's house.'"[16]
Presidency (1974–1977)
Main article: Presidency of Gerald Ford
For a chronological guide, see Timeline of the Gerald Ford presidency.
Swearing-in
Main article: Inauguration of Gerald Ford
Gerald Ford is sworn in as president by Chief Justice Warren Burger in the White House East Room, while Betty Ford looks on.
When Nixon resigned on August 9, 1974, Ford automatically assumed the presidency, taking the oath of office in the East Room of the White House. This made him the only person to become the nation's chief executive without being elected to the presidency or the vice presidency. Immediately afterward, he spoke to the assembled audience in a speech that was broadcast live to the nation,[69][70] noting the peculiarity of his position.[71] He later declared that "our long national nightmare is over".[72]
Nominating Rockefeller
Main article: 1974 United States vice presidential confirmation
On August 20, Ford nominated former New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller to fill the vice presidency he had vacated.[73] Rockefeller's top competitor had been George H. W. Bush. Rockefeller underwent extended hearings before Congress, which caused embarrassment when it was revealed he made large gifts to senior aides, such as Henry Kissinger. Although conservative Republicans were not pleased that Rockefeller was picked, most of them voted for his confirmation, and his nomination passed both the House and Senate. Some, including Barry Goldwater, voted against him.[74]
Pardon of Nixon
Main article: Pardon of Richard Nixon
English Wikisource has original text related to this article:
The Nixon Pardon
Ford appears at a House Judiciary Subcommittee hearing in reference to his pardon of Richard Nixon.
On September 8, 1974, Ford issued Proclamation 4311, which gave Nixon a full and unconditional pardon for any crimes he might have committed against the United States while president.[75][76][77] In a televised broadcast to the nation, Ford explained that he felt the pardon was in the best interests of the country, and that the Nixon family's situation "is a tragedy in which we all have played a part. It could go on and on and on, or someone must write the end to it. I have concluded that only I can do that, and if I can, I must."[78]
Ford's decision to pardon Nixon was highly controversial. Critics derided the move and said a "corrupt bargain" had been struck between the two men,[16] in which Ford's pardon was granted in exchange for Nixon's resignation, elevating Ford to the presidency. Ford's first press secretary and close friend Jerald terHorst resigned his post in protest after the pardon.[79] According to Bob Woodward, Nixon Chief of Staff Alexander Haig proposed a pardon deal to Ford. He later decided to pardon Nixon for other reasons, primarily the friendship he and Nixon shared.[80] Regardless, historians believe the controversy was one of the major reasons Ford lost the 1976 presidential election, an observation with which Ford agreed.[80] In an editorial at the time, The New York Times stated that the Nixon pardon was a "profoundly unwise, divisive and unjust act" that in a stroke had destroyed the new president's "credibility as a man of judgment, candor and competence".[39] On October 17, 1974, Ford testified before Congress on the pardon. He was the first sitting president since Abraham Lincoln to testify before the House of Representatives.[81][82]
In the months following the pardon, Ford often declined to mention President Nixon by name, referring to him in public as "my predecessor" or "the former president." When Ford was pressed on the matter on a 1974 trip to California, White House correspondent Fred Barnes recalled that he replied "I just can't bring myself to do it."[83]
After Ford left the White House in January 1977, he privately justified his pardon of Nixon by carrying in his wallet a portion of the text of Burdick v. United States, a 1915 U.S. Supreme Court decision which stated that a pardon indicated a presumption of guilt, and that acceptance of a pardon was tantamount to a confession of that guilt.[84] In 2001, the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation awarded the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award to Ford for his pardon of Nixon.[85] In presenting the award to Ford, Senator Edward Kennedy said that he had initially been opposed to the pardon, but later decided that history had proven Ford to have made the correct decision.[86]
Draft dodgers and deserters
On September 16 (shortly after he pardoned Nixon), Ford issued Presidential Proclamation 4313, which introduced a conditional amnesty program for military deserters and Vietnam War draft dodgers who had fled to countries such as Canada. The conditions of the amnesty required that those reaffirm their allegiance to the United States and serve two years working in a public service job or a total of two years service for those who had served less than two years of honorable service in the military.[87] The program for the Return of Vietnam Era Draft Evaders and Military Deserters[88] established a Clemency Board to review the records and make recommendations for receiving a presidential pardon and a change in military discharge status. Full pardon for draft dodgers came in the Carter administration.[89]
Administration
When Ford assumed office, he inherited Nixon's Cabinet. During his brief administration, he replaced all members except Secretary of State Kissinger and Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon. Political commentators have referred to Ford's dramatic reorganization of his Cabinet in the fall of 1975 as the "Halloween Massacre". One of Ford's appointees, William Coleman—the Secretary of Transportation—was the second Black man to serve in a presidential cabinet (after Robert C. Weaver) and the first appointed in a Republican administration.[90]
Ford selected George H. W. Bush as Chief of the US Liaison Office to the People's Republic of China in 1974, and then Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in late 1975.[91]
Ford's transition chairman and first Chief of Staff was former congressman and ambassador Donald Rumsfeld. In 1975, Rumsfeld was named by Ford as the youngest-ever Secretary of Defense. Ford chose a young Wyoming politician, Richard Cheney, to replace Rumsfeld as his new Chief of Staff; Cheney became the campaign manager for Ford's 1976 presidential campaign.[92]
Midterm elections
Main articles: 1974 United States House elections and 1974 United States Senate elections
The 1974 Congressional midterm elections took place in the wake of the Watergate scandal and less than three months after Ford assumed office. The Democratic Party turned voter dissatisfaction into large gains in the House elections, taking 49 seats from the Republican Party, increasing their majority to 291 of the 435 seats. This was one more than the number needed (290) for a two-thirds majority, the number necessary to override a presidential veto or to propose a constitutional amendment. Perhaps due in part to this fact, the 94th Congress overrode the highest percentage of vetoes since Andrew Johnson was President of the United States (1865–1869).[93] Even Ford's former, reliably Republican House seat was won by a Democrat, Richard Vander Veen, who defeated Robert VanderLaan. In the Senate elections, the Democratic majority became 61 in the 100-seat body.[94]
Domestic policy
Inflation
Ford meeting with his Cabinet, 1975
The economy was a great concern during the Ford administration. One of the first acts the new president took to deal with the economy was to create, by Executive Order on September 30, 1974, the Economic Policy Board.[95] In October 1974, in response to rising inflation, Ford went before the American public and asked them to "Whip Inflation Now". As part of this program, he urged people to wear "WIN" buttons.[96] At the time, inflation was believed to be the primary threat to the economy, more so than growing unemployment; there was a belief that controlling inflation would help reduce unemployment.[95] To rein in inflation, it was necessary to control the public's spending. To try to mesh service and sacrifice, "WIN" called for Americans to reduce their spending and consumption.[97] On October 4, 1974, Ford gave a speech in front of a joint session of Congress; as a part of this speech he kicked off the "WIN" campaign. Over the next nine days, 101,240 Americans mailed in "WIN" pledges.[95] In hindsight, this was viewed as simply a public relations gimmick which had no way of solving the underlying problems.[98] The main point of that speech was to introduce to Congress a one-year, five-percent income tax increase on corporations and wealthy individuals. This plan would also take $4.4 billion out of the budget, bringing federal spending below $300 billion.[99] At the time, inflation was over twelve percent.[100]
Budget
Ford and his golden retriever, Liberty, in the Oval Office, 1974
The federal budget ran a deficit every year Ford was president.[101] Despite his reservations about how the program ultimately would be funded in an era of tight public budgeting, Ford signed the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975, which established special education throughout the United States. Ford expressed "strong support for full educational opportunities for our handicapped children" according to the official White House press release for the bill signing.[102]
The economic focus began to change as the country sank into the worst recession since the Great Depression four decades earlier.[103] The focus of the Ford administration turned to stopping the rise in unemployment, which reached nine percent in May 1975.[104] In January 1975, Ford proposed a 1-year tax reduction of $16 billion to stimulate economic growth, along with spending cuts to avoid inflation.[99] Ford was criticized for abruptly switching from advocating a tax increase to a tax reduction. In Congress, the proposed amount of the tax reduction increased to $22.8 billion in tax cuts and lacked spending cuts.[95] In March 1975, Congress passed, and Ford signed into law, these income tax rebates as part of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975. This resulted in a federal deficit of around $53 billion for the 1975 fiscal year and $73.7 billion for 1976.[105]
When New York City faced bankruptcy in 1975, Mayor Abraham Beame was unsuccessful in obtaining Ford's support for a federal bailout. The incident prompted the New York Daily News' famous headline "Ford to City: Drop Dead", referring to a speech in which "Ford declared flatly ... that he would veto any bill calling for 'a federal bail-out of New York City'".[106][107]
Swine flu
Main article: 1976 swine flu outbreak
Ford was confronted with a potential swine flu pandemic. In the early 1970s, an influenza strain H1N1 shifted from a form of flu that affected primarily pigs and crossed over to humans. On February 5, 1976, an army recruit at Fort Dix mysteriously died and four fellow soldiers were hospitalized; health officials announced that "swine flu" was the cause. Soon after, public health officials in the Ford administration urged that every person in the United States be vaccinated.[108] Although the vaccination program was plagued by delays and public relations problems, some 25% of the population was vaccinated by the time the program was canceled in December 1976.[109] Ford and his family were publicly vaccinated before cameras in October, shortly before he lost the presidential election to Jimmy Carter.[110]
Equal rights and abortion
Cheney, Rumsfeld and Ford in the Oval Office, 1975
Ford was an outspoken supporter of the Equal Rights Amendment, issuing Presidential Proclamation no. 4383 in 1975:
In this Land of the Free, it is right, and by nature it ought to be, that all men and all women are equal before the law.
Now, therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford, President of the United States of America, to remind all Americans that it is fitting and just to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment adopted by the Congress of the United States of America, in order to secure legal equality for all women and men, do hereby designate and proclaim August 26, 1975, as Women's Equality Day.[111]
As president, Ford's position on abortion was that he supported "a federal constitutional amendment that would permit each one of the 50 States to make the choice".[112] This had also been his position as House Minority Leader in response to the 1973 Supreme Court case of Roe v. Wade, which he opposed.[113] Ford came under criticism when First Lady Betty Ford entered the debate over abortion during an August 1975 interview for 60 Minutes, in which she stated that Roe v. Wade was a "great, great decision".[114] During his later life, Ford would identify as pro-choice.[115]
Foreign policy
Ford meets with Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev to sign a joint communiqué on the SALT treaty during the Vladivostok Summit, November 1974.
Ford continued the détente policy with both the Soviet Union and China, easing the tensions of the Cold War. Still in place from the Nixon administration was the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT).[116] The thawing relationship brought about by Nixon's visit to China was reinforced by Ford's own visit in December 1975.[117] The Administration entered into the Helsinki Accords[118] with the Soviet Union in 1975, creating the framework of the Helsinki Watch, an independent non-governmental organization created to monitor compliance which later evolved into Human Rights Watch.[119]
Ford attended the inaugural meeting of the Group of Seven (G7) industrialized nations (initially the G5) in 1975 and secured membership for Canada. Ford supported international solutions to issues. "We live in an interdependent world and, therefore, must work together to resolve common economic problems," he said in a 1974 speech.[120]
In November 1975, Ford adopted the global human population control recommendations of National Security Study Memorandum 200 – a national security directive initially commissioned by Nixon – as United States policy in the subsequent NSDM 314.[121][122] The plan explicitly states the goal was population control and not improving the lives of individuals despite instructing organizers to "emphasize development and improvements in the quality of life of the poor", later explaining the projects were "primarily for other reasons".[123][124] Upon approving the plan, Ford stated "United States leadership is essential to combat population growth, to implement the World Population Plan of Action and to advance United States security and overseas interests".[125] Population control policies were adopted to protect American economic and military interests, with the memorandum arguing that population growth in developing countries resulted with such nations gaining global political power, that more citizens posed a risk to accessing foreign natural resources while also making American businesses vulnerable to governments seeking to fund a growing population, and that younger generations born would be prone to anti-establishment behavior, increasing political instability.[121][125][126]
Indonesia and East Timor
As South Vietnam collapsed, an anti-communist Indonesia was seen as essential by the United States. Good relations with the Indonesian government were considered more important than the decolonization process in East Timor.[127][128] The Ford administration gave the Suharto regime in Indonesia economic and military support, even as it invaded East Timor and committed a genocide that killed close to a third of the population.[129] One day prior to the invasion, Ford and Kissinger met with Suharto, and they assured him that relations with Indonesia would remain strong regardless of Indonesia's actions and that it would not object to the annexation of East Timor.[130]
Middle East
Countries visited by Ford during his presidency
In the Middle East and eastern Mediterranean, two ongoing international disputes developed into crises. The Cyprus dispute turned into a crisis with the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in July 1974, causing extreme strain within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) alliance. In mid-August, the Greek government withdrew Greece from the NATO military structure; in mid-September, the Senate and House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted to halt military aid to Turkey. Ford, concerned with both the effect of this on Turkish-American relations and the deterioration of security on NATO's eastern front, vetoed the bill. A second bill was then passed by Congress, which Ford also vetoed, fearing that it might impede negotiations in Cyprus, although a compromise was accepted to continue aid until December 10, 1974, provided Turkey would not send American supplies to Cyprus.[2] U.S. military aid to Turkey was suspended on February 5, 1975.[2]
Ford with Anwar Sadat in Salzburg, 1975
In the continuing Arab–Israeli conflict, although the initial cease fire had been implemented to end active conflict in the Yom Kippur War, Kissinger's continuing shuttle diplomacy was showing little progress. Ford considered it "stalling" and wrote, "Their [Israeli] tactics frustrated the Egyptians and made me mad as hell."[131] During Kissinger's shuttle to Israel in early March 1975, a last minute reversal to consider further withdrawal, prompted a cable from Ford to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, which included:
I wish to express my profound disappointment over Israel's attitude in the course of the negotiations ... Failure of the negotiation will have a far reaching impact on the region and on our relations. I have given instructions for a reassessment of United States policy in the region, including our relations with Israel, with the aim of ensuring that overall American interests ... are protected. You will be notified of our decision.[132]
On March 24, Ford informed congressional leaders of both parties of the reassessment of the administration's policies in the Middle East. In practical terms, "reassessment" meant canceling or suspending further aid to Israel. For six months between March and September 1975, the United States refused to conclude any new arms agreements with Israel. Rabin notes it was "an innocent-sounding term that heralded one of the worst periods in American-Israeli relations".[133] The announced reassessments upset the American Jewish community and Israel's well-wishers in Congress. On May 21, Ford "experienced a real shock" when seventy-six U.S. senators wrote him a letter urging him to be "responsive" to Israel's request for $2.59 billion (equivalent to $15.13 billion in 2024) in military and economic aid. Ford felt truly annoyed and thought the chance for peace was jeopardized. It was, since the September 1974 ban on arms sales to Turkey, the second major congressional intrusion upon the President's foreign policy prerogatives.[134] The following summer months were described by Ford as an American-Israeli "war of nerves" or "test of wills".[135] After much bargaining, the Sinai Interim Agreement (Sinai II) was formally signed on September 1, and aid resumed.
Vietnam
Ford and his daughter Susan watch as Henry Kissinger (right) shakes hands with Mao Zedong, December 2, 1975.
One of Ford's greatest challenges was dealing with the continuing Vietnam War. American offensive operations against North Vietnam had ended with the Paris Peace Accords, signed on January 27, 1973. The accords declared a cease-fire across both North and South Vietnam, and required the release of American prisoners of war. The agreement guaranteed the territorial integrity of Vietnam and, like the Geneva Conference of 1954, called for national elections in the North and South. The Paris Peace Accords stipulated a sixty-day period for the total withdrawal of U.S. forces.[136]
The agreements were negotiated by US National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese Politburo member Lê Đức Thọ. South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu was not involved in the final negotiations, and publicly criticized the proposed agreement. However, anti-war pressures within the United States forced Nixon and Kissinger to pressure Thieu to sign the agreement and enable the withdrawal of American forces. In multiple letters to the South Vietnamese president, Nixon had promised that the United States would defend Thieu's government, should the North Vietnamese violate the accords.[137]
In December 1974, months after Ford took office, North Vietnamese forces invaded the province of Phuoc Long. General Trần Văn Trà sought to gauge any South Vietnamese or American response to the invasion, as well as to solve logistical issues, before proceeding with the invasion.[138]
As North Vietnamese forces advanced, Ford requested Congress approve a $722 million aid package for South Vietnam (equivalent to $4.22 billion in 2024), funds that had been promised by the Nixon administration. Congress voted against the proposal by a wide margin.[116] Senator Jacob K. Javits offered "...large sums for evacuation, but not one nickel for military aid".[116] President Thieu resigned on April 21, 1975, publicly blaming the lack of support from the United States for the fall of his country.[139] Two days later, on April 23, Ford gave a speech at Tulane University. In that speech, he announced that the Vietnam War was over "...as far as America is concerned".[137] The announcement was met with thunderous applause.[137]
1,373 U.S. citizens and 5,595 Vietnamese and third-country nationals were evacuated from the South Vietnamese capital of Saigon during Operation Frequent Wind. Many of the Vietnamese evacuees were allowed to enter the United States under the Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act. The 1975 Act appropriated $455 million (equivalent to $2.66 billion in 2024) toward the costs of assisting the settlement of Indochinese refugees.[140] In all, 130,000 Vietnamese refugees came to the United States in 1975. Thousands more escaped in the years that followed.[141]
Mayaguez incident
North Vietnam's victory over the South led to a considerable shift in the political winds in Asia, and Ford administration officials worried about a consequent loss of U.S. influence there. The administration proved it was willing to respond forcefully to challenges to its interests in the region when Khmer Rouge forces seized an American ship in international waters.[142] The main crisis was the Mayaguez incident. In May 1975, shortly after the fall of Saigon and the Khmer Rouge conquest of Cambodia, Cambodians seized the American merchant ship Mayaguez in international waters.[143] Ford dispatched Marines to rescue the crew, but the Marines landed on the wrong island and met unexpectedly stiff resistance just as, unknown to the U.S., the Mayaguez sailors were being released. In the operation, two military transport helicopters carrying the Marines for the assault operation were shot down, and 41 U.S. servicemen were killed and 50 wounded, while approximately 60 Khmer Rouge soldiers were killed.[144] Despite the American losses, the operation was seen as a success in the United States, and Ford enjoyed an 11-point boost in his approval ratings in the aftermath.[145] The Americans killed during the operation became the last to have their names inscribed on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial wall in Washington, D.C.
Some historians have argued that the Ford administration felt the need to respond forcefully to the incident because it was construed as a Soviet plot.[146] But work by Andrew Gawthorpe, published in 2009, based on an analysis of the administration's internal discussions, shows that Ford's national security team understood that the seizure of the vessel was a local, and perhaps even accidental, provocation by an immature Khmer government. Nevertheless, they felt the need to respond forcefully to discourage further provocations by other Communist countries in Asia.[147]
Assassination attempts
Main articles: Attempted assassination of Gerald Ford in Sacramento and Attempted assassination of Gerald Ford in San Francisco
Reaction immediately after the second assassination attempt
Ford was the target of two assassination attempts during his presidency. In Sacramento, California, on September 5, 1975, Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme, a follower of Charles Manson, pointed a Colt .45-caliber handgun at Ford and pulled the trigger at point-blank range.[148][149] As she did, Larry Buendorf,[150] a Secret Service agent, grabbed the gun, and Fromme was taken into custody. She was later convicted of attempted assassination of the President and was sentenced to life in prison; she was paroled on August 14, 2009, after serving 34 years.[151]
In reaction to this attempt, the Secret Service began keeping Ford at a more secure distance from anonymous crowds, a strategy that may have saved his life seventeen days later. As he left the St. Francis Hotel in downtown San Francisco, Sara Jane Moore, standing in a crowd of onlookers across the street, fired a .38-caliber revolver at him. The shot missed Ford by a few feet.[148][152] Before she fired a second round, retired Marine Oliver Sipple grabbed at the gun and deflected her shot; the bullet struck a wall about six inches above and to the right of Ford's head, then ricocheted and hit a taxi driver, who was slightly wounded. Moore was later sentenced to life in prison. She was paroled on December 31, 2007, after serving 32 years.[153]
Judicial appointments
Further information: Gerald Ford judicial appointment controversies
Supreme Court
Main article: Gerald Ford Supreme Court candidates
In 1975, Ford appointed John Paul Stevens as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States to replace retiring Justice William O. Douglas. Stevens had been a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, appointed by President Nixon.[154] During his tenure as House Republican leader, Ford had led efforts to have Douglas impeached.[155] After being confirmed, Stevens eventually disappointed some conservatives by siding with the Court's liberal wing regarding the outcome of many key issues.[156] Nevertheless, in 2005 Ford praised Stevens. "He has served his nation well," Ford said of Stevens, "with dignity, intellect and without partisan political concerns."[157]
Other judicial appointments
Main article: List of federal judges appointed by Gerald Ford
Ford appointed 11 judges to the United States Courts of Appeals, and 50 judges to the United States district courts.[158]
1976 presidential campaign
Main articles: Gerald Ford 1976 presidential campaign and 1976 United States presidential election
Ronald Reagan congratulates President Ford after the president wins the 1976 Republican nomination, while Bob Dole, Nancy Reagan, and Nelson Rockefeller look on.
Ford reluctantly agreed to run for office in 1976, but first he had to counter a challenge for the Republican party nomination. Former Governor of California Ronald Reagan and the party's conservative wing faulted Ford for failing to do more in South Vietnam, for signing the Helsinki Accords, and for negotiating to cede the Panama Canal. (Negotiations for the canal continued under President Carter, who eventually signed the Torrijos–Carter Treaties.) Reagan launched his campaign in autumn of 1975 and won numerous primaries, including North Carolina, Texas, Indiana, and California, but failed to get a majority of delegates; Reagan withdrew from the race at the Republican Convention in Kansas City, Missouri. The conservative insurgency did lead to Ford dropping the more liberal Vice President Nelson Rockefeller in favor of U.S. senator Bob Dole of Kansas.[159]
In addition to the pardon dispute and lingering anti-Republican sentiment, Ford had to counter a plethora of negative media imagery. Chevy Chase often did pratfalls on Saturday Night Live, imitating Ford, who had been seen stumbling on two occasions during his term. As Chase commented, "He even mentioned in his own autobiography it had an effect over a period of time that affected the election to some degree."[160]
Ford's 1976 election campaign benefitted from his being an incumbent president during several anniversary events held during the period leading up to the United States Bicentennial. The Washington, D.C. fireworks display on the Fourth of July was presided over by the President and televised nationally.[161] On July 7, 1976, the President and First Lady served as hosts at a White House state dinner for Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip of the United Kingdom, which was televised on the Public Broadcasting Service network. The 200th anniversary of the Battles of Lexington and Concord in Massachusetts gave Ford the opportunity to deliver a speech to 110,000 in Concord acknowledging the need for a strong national defense tempered with a plea for "reconciliation, not recrimination" and "reconstruction, not rancor" between the United States and those who would pose "threats to peace".[162] Speaking in New Hampshire on the previous day, Ford condemned the growing trend toward big government bureaucracy and argued for a return to "basic American virtues".[163]
Jimmy Carter and Ford in a presidential debate, September 23, 1976
Televised presidential debates were reintroduced for the first time since the 1960 election. As such, Ford became the first incumbent president to participate in one. Carter later attributed his victory in the election to the debates, saying they "gave the viewers reason to think that Jimmy Carter had something to offer". The turning point came in the second debate when Ford blundered by stating, "There is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe and there never will be under a Ford Administration." Ford also said that he did not "believe that the Poles consider themselves dominated by the Soviet Union".[164] In an interview years later, Ford said he had intended to imply that the Soviets would never crush the spirits of eastern Europeans seeking independence. However, the phrasing was so awkward that questioner Max Frankel was visibly incredulous at the response.[165]
Ford was defeated in the 1976 presidential election by Jimmy Carter.
In the end, Carter won the election, receiving 50.1% of the popular vote and 297 electoral votes compared with 48.0% and 240 electoral votes for Ford.[166]
Post-presidency (1977–2006)
Main article: Post-presidency of Gerald Ford
The Nixon pardon controversy eventually subsided. Ford's successor, Jimmy Carter, opened his 1977 inaugural address by praising the outgoing president, saying, "For myself and for our Nation, I want to thank my predecessor for all he has done to heal our land."[167]
After leaving the White House, the Fords moved to Denver, Colorado. Ford successfully invested in oil with Marvin Davis, which later provided an income for Ford's children.[168]
He continued to make appearances at events of historical and ceremonial significance to the nation, such as presidential inaugurals and memorial services. In January 1977, he became the president of Eisenhower Fellowships in Philadelphia, then served as the chairman of its board of trustees from 1980 to 1986.[169] Later in 1977, he reluctantly agreed to be interviewed by James M. Naughton, a New York Times journalist who was given the assignment to write the former president's advance obituary, an article that would be updated prior to its eventual publication.[170] In 1979, Ford published his autobiography, A Time to Heal (Harper/Reader's Digest, 454 pages). A review in Foreign Affairs described it as, "Serene, unruffled, unpretentious, like the author. This is the shortest and most honest of recent presidential memoirs, but there are no surprises, no deep probings of motives or events. No more here than meets the eye."[171]
During the term of office of his successor, Jimmy Carter, Ford received monthly briefs by President Carter's senior staff on international and domestic issues, and was always invited to lunch at the White House whenever he was in Washington, D.C. Their close friendship developed after Carter had left office, with the catalyst being their trip together to the funeral of Anwar el-Sadat in 1981.[172] Until Ford's death, Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, visited the Fords' home frequently.[173] Ford and Carter served as honorary co-chairs of the National Commission on Federal Election Reform in 2001 and of the Continuity of Government Commission in 2002.
Like Presidents Carter, George H. W. Bush, and Bill Clinton, Ford was an honorary co-chair of the Council for Excellence in Government, a group dedicated to excellence in government performance, which provides leadership training to top federal employees. He also devoted much time to his love of golf, often playing both privately and in public events with comedian Bob Hope, a longtime friend. In 1977, he shot a hole in one during a Pro-am held in conjunction with the Danny Thomas Memphis Classic at Colonial Country Club in Memphis, Tennessee.
In 1977, Ford established the Gerald R. Ford Institute of Public Policy at Albion College in Albion, Michigan, to give undergraduates training in public policy. In April 1981, he opened the Gerald R. Ford Library in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on the north campus of his alma mater, the University of Michigan,[174] followed in September by the Gerald R. Ford Museum in Grand Rapids.[175][176]
Ford considered a run for the Republican nomination in 1980, forgoing numerous opportunities to serve on corporate boards to keep his options open for a rematch with Carter. Ford attacked Carter's conduct of the SALT II negotiations and foreign policy in the Middle East and Africa. Many have argued that Ford also wanted to exorcise his image as an "Accidental President" and to win a term in his own right. Ford also believed the more conservative Ronald Reagan would be unable to defeat Carter and would hand the incumbent a second term. Ford was encouraged by his former Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, as well as Jim Rhodes of Ohio and Bill Clements of Texas to make the race. On March 15, 1980, Ford announced that he would forgo a run for the Republican nomination, vowing to support the eventual nominee.[177]
On July 16, 1980 (day 3 of the 1980 Republican National Convention), Gerald Ford consults with Bob Dole, Howard Baker and Bill Brock before ultimately making a decision to decline the offer to serve as Ronald Reagan's running mate.
After securing the Republican nomination in 1980, Ronald Reagan considered his former rival Ford as a potential vice-presidential running mate, but negotiations between the Reagan and Ford camps at the Republican National Convention were unsuccessful. Ford conditioned his acceptance on Reagan's agreement to an unprecedented "co-presidency",[178] giving Ford the power to control key executive branch appointments (such as Kissinger as Secretary of State and Alan Greenspan as Treasury Secretary). After rejecting these terms, Reagan offered the vice-presidential nomination instead to George H. W. Bush.[179] Ford did appear in a campaign commercial for the Reagan-Bush ticket, in which he declared that the country would be "better served by a Reagan presidency rather than a continuation of the weak and politically expedient policies of Jimmy Carter".[180] On October 8, 1980, Ford said former President Nixon's involvement in the general election potentially could negatively impact the Reagan campaign: "I think it would have been much more helpful if Mr. Nixon had stayed in the background during this campaign. It would have been much more beneficial to Ronald Reagan."[181]
On October 3, 1980, Ford cast blame on Carter for the latter's charges of ineffectiveness on the part of the Federal Reserve Board due to his appointing of most of its members: "President Carter, when the going gets tough, will do anything to save his own political skin. This latest action by the president is cowardly."[182]
Following the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan, Ford told reporters while appearing at a fundraiser for Thomas Kean that criminals who use firearms should get the death penalty in the event someone is injured with the weapon.[183]
In September 1981, Ford advised Reagan against succumbing to Wall Street demands and follow his own agenda for the economic policies of the US during an appearance on Good Morning America: "He shouldn't let the gurus of Wall Street decide what the economic future of this country is going to be. They are wrong in my opinion."[184] During a news conference on October 20, 1981, Ford stated that stopping the Reagan administration's Saudi arms package could have a large negative impact to American relations in the Middle East.[185]
On March 24, 1982, Ford offered an endorsement of President Reagan's economic policies while also stating the possibility of Reagan being met with a stalemate by Congress if not willing to compromise while in Washington.[186]
Ford founded the annual AEI World Forum in 1982, and joined the American Enterprise Institute as a distinguished fellow. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate at Central Connecticut State University[187] on March 23, 1988.
During an August 1982 fundraising reception, Ford stated his opposition to a constitutional amendment requiring the US to have a balanced budget, citing a need to elect "members of the House and Senate who will immediately when Congress convenes act more responsibly in fiscal matters."[188] Ford was a participant in the 1982 midterm elections, traveling to Tennessee in October of that year to help Republican candidates.[189]
In January 1984, a letter signed by Ford and Carter and urging world leaders to extend their failed effort to end world hunger was released and sent to Secretary-General of the United Nations Javier Pérez de Cuéllar.[190]
In 1987, Ford testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in favor of District of Columbia Circuit Court judge and former Solicitor General Robert Bork after Bork was nominated by President Reagan to be an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court.[191] Bork's nomination was rejected by a vote of 58–42.[192]
In 1987, Ford's Humor and the Presidency, a book of humorous political anecdotes, was published.
By 1988, Ford was a member of several corporate boards including Commercial Credit, Nova Pharmaceutical, The Pullman Company, Tesoro Petroleum, and Tiger International, Inc.[193] Ford also became an honorary director of Citigroup, a position he held until his death.[194]
In October 1990, Ford appeared in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania with Bob Hope to commemorate the centennial anniversary of the birth of former president Dwight D. Eisenhower, where the two unveiled a plaque with the signatures of each living former president.[195]
In April 1991, Ford joined former presidents Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and Jimmy Carter, in supporting the Brady Bill.[196] Three years later, he wrote to the U.S. House of Representatives, along with Carter and Reagan, in support of the assault weapons ban.[197]
At the 1992 Republican National Convention, Ford compared the election cycle to his 1976 loss to Carter and urged attention be paid to electing a Republican Congress: "If it's change you want on Nov. 3, my friends, the place to start is not at the White House but in the United States' Capitol. Congress, as every school child knows, has the power of the purse. For nearly 40 years, Democratic majorities have held to the time-tested New Deal formula, tax and tax, spend and spend, elect and elect." (The Republicans would later win both Houses of Congress at the 1994 mid-term elections.)[198]
Ford joins President Bill Clinton and former presidents George H. W. Bush and Jimmy Carter onstage at the dedication of the George H.W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum at Texas A&M University, November 6, 1997.
Ford at his 90th birthday with Laura Bush, President George W. Bush, and Betty Ford in the White House State Dining Room in 2003
In April 1997, Ford joined President Bill Clinton, former president Bush, and Nancy Reagan in signing the "Summit Declaration of Commitment" in advocating for participation by private citizens in solving domestic issues within the United States.[199]
On January 20, 1998, during an interview at his Palm Springs home, Ford said the Republican Party's nominee in the 2000 presidential election would lose if the party turned ultra-conservative in their ideals: "If we get way over on the hard right of the political spectrum, we will not elect a Republican President. I worry about the party going down this ultra-conservative line. We ought to learn from the Democrats: when they were running ultra-liberal candidates, they didn't win."[200]
In the prelude to the impeachment of President Clinton, Ford conferred with former president Carter and the two agreed to not speak publicly on the controversy, a pact broken by Carter when answering a question from a student at Emory University.[201]
In October 2001, Ford broke with conservative members of the Republican Party by stating that gay and lesbian couples "ought to be treated equally. Period." He became the highest-ranking Republican to embrace full equality for gays and lesbians, stating his belief that there should be a federal amendment outlawing anti-gay job discrimination and expressing his hope that the Republican Party would reach out to gay and lesbian voters.[202] He also was a member of the Republican Unity Coalition, which The New York Times described as "a group of prominent Republicans, including former President Gerald R. Ford, dedicated to making sexual orientation a non-issue in the Republican Party".[203]
On November 22, 2004, New York Republican governor George Pataki named Ford and the other living former presidents (Carter, George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton) as honorary members of the board rebuilding the World Trade Center.
In a pre-recorded embargoed interview with Bob Woodward of The Washington Post in July 2004, Ford stated that he disagreed "very strongly" with the Bush administration's choice of Iraq's alleged weapons of mass destruction as justification for its decision to invade Iraq, calling it a "big mistake" unrelated to the national security of the United States and indicating that he would not have gone to war had he been president. The details of the interview were not released until after Ford's death, as he requested.[204][205]
Health issues
On April 4, 1990, Ford was admitted to Eisenhower Medical Center for surgery to replace his left knee, orthopedic surgeon Robert Murphy saying, "Ford's entire left knee was replaced with an artificial joint, including portions of the adjacent femur, or thigh bone, and tibia, or leg bone."[206]
Ford suffered two minor strokes at the 2000 Republican National Convention, but made a quick recovery after being admitted to Hahnemann University Hospital.[207][208] In January 2006, he spent 11 days at the Eisenhower Medical Center near his residence at Rancho Mirage, California, for treatment of pneumonia.[209] On April 23, 2006, President George W. Bush visited Ford at his home in Rancho Mirage for a little over an hour. This was Ford's last public appearance and produced the last known public photos, video footage, and voice recording.
While vacationing in Vail, Colorado, Ford was hospitalized for two days in July 2006 for shortness of breath.[210] On August 15 he was admitted to St. Mary's Hospital of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, for testing and evaluation. On August 21, it was reported that he had been fitted with a pacemaker. On August 25, he underwent an angioplasty procedure at the Mayo Clinic. On August 28, Ford was released from the hospital and returned with his wife Betty to their California home. On October 13, he was scheduled to attend the dedication of a building of his namesake, the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan, but due to poor health and on the advice of his doctors he did not attend. The previous day, Ford had entered the Eisenhower Medical Center for undisclosed tests; he was released on October 16.[211] By November 2006, he was confined to a bed in his study.[212]
Death and funeral
Main article: Death and state funeral of Gerald Ford
Ford lying in state in the U.S. Capitol rotunda
Ford died on December 26, 2006, at his home in Rancho Mirage, California, of arteriosclerotic cerebrovascular disease and diffuse arteriosclerosis. He had end-stage coronary artery disease and severe aortic stenosis and insufficiency, caused by calcific alteration of one of his heart valves.[213] At the time of his death, Ford was the longest-lived U.S. president, having lived 93 years and 165 days (45 days longer than Ronald Reagan, whose record he surpassed).[31] He died on the 34th anniversary of President Harry S. Truman's death; he was the last surviving member of the Warren Commission.[214]
On December 30, 2006, Ford became the 11th U.S. president to lie in state in the Rotunda of the U.S. Capitol.[215] A state funeral and memorial services were held at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, January 2, 2007. After the service, Ford was interred at his Presidential Museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan.[216]
Ford's family asked for Scouts to participate in his funeral. A few selected Scouts served as ushers inside the National Cathedral. About 400 Eagle Scouts were part of the funeral procession, where they formed an honor guard as the casket went by in front of the museum.[217]
One of the songs selected by Ford during the procession was the University of Michigan fight song, as it was a favorite of his that he preferred to be played during his presidency.[218] After his death in December 2006, the University of Michigan Marching Band played the school's fight song for him one final time, for his last ride from the Gerald R. Ford Airport in Grand Rapids, Michigan.[219]
The State of Michigan commissioned and submitted a statue of Ford to the National Statuary Hall Collection, replacing Zachariah Chandler. It was unveiled on May 3, 2011, in the Capitol Rotunda.[citation needed]
Personal life
Family
Speaking of his stepfather and his mother, Ford said, "My stepfather was a magnificent person and my mother equally wonderful. So I couldn't have written a better prescription for a superb family upbringing."[16]
Ford had three younger half-siblings from the second marriage of his biological father, Leslie King Sr., to Marjorie King (1921–1993); Leslie Henry King (1923–1976); and Patricia Jane King (1925–1980). They never saw one another as children, and he did not know them at all until 1960. Ford was not aware of his biological father until he was 17, when his parents told him about the circumstances of his birth. That year, his biological father, whom Ford described as a "carefree, well-to-do man who didn't really give a damn about the hopes and dreams of his firstborn son,” approached Ford while he was waiting tables in a Grand Rapids restaurant. The two "maintained a sporadic contact" until Leslie King Sr.'s death in 1941.[10][220]
The Fords on their wedding day, October 15, 1948
On October 15, 1948, Ford married Elizabeth Bloomer (1918–2011) at Grace Episcopal church in Grand Rapids.[221]
Bloomer, who was originally from Grand Rapids herself, had been living in New York City for several years, where she had been working as a John Robert Powers fashion model, and as a dancer in the auxiliary troupe of the Martha Graham Dance Company. At the time of their engagement, Ford was campaigning for what would be the first of his 13 terms as a member of the United States House of Representatives. They delayed their wedding until shortly before the election because, as The New York Times reported in a 1974 profile of Betty Ford, "Jerry Ford was running for Congress and wasn't sure how voters might feel about his marrying a divorced exdancer."[221]
The couple had four children: Michael Gerald, born in 1950; John Gardner (known as Jack), born in 1952; Steven Meigs, born in 1956; and Susan Elizabeth, born in 1957.[148]
Civic and fraternal organizations
Ford was a member of several civic and fraternal organizations, including the Junior Chamber of Commerce (Jaycees), American Legion, AMVETS, Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, Sons of the Revolution,[222] Veterans of Foreign Wars, and was an alumnus of Delta Kappa Epsilon at Michigan.
Freemasonry
Ford was initiated into Freemasonry on September 30, 1949.[223] He later said in 1975, "When I took my obligation as a master mason—incidentally, with my three younger brothers—I recalled the value my own father attached to that order. But I had no idea that I would ever be added to the company of the Father of our Country and 12 other members of the order who also served as Presidents of the United States."[224] Ford was made a 33° Scottish Rite Mason on September 26, 1962.[225] In April 1975, Ford was elected by a unanimous vote Honorary Grand Master of the International Supreme Council, Order of DeMolay, a position in which he served until January 1977.[226] Ford received the degrees of York Rite Masonry (Chapter and Council degrees) in a special ceremony in the Oval Office on January 11, 1977, during his term as President of the United States.[227]
Ford was also a member of the Shriners and the Royal Order of Jesters; both being affiliated bodies of Freemasonry.[228]
Public image
President George W. Bush with Ford and his wife Betty on April 23, 2006
Ford is the only person to hold the presidential office without being elected as either president or vice president. The choice of Ford to fill the vacant vice-presidency was based on Ford's reputation for openness and honesty.[229] "In all the years I sat in the House, I never knew Mr. Ford to make a dishonest statement nor a statement part-true and part-false. He never attempted to shade a statement, and I never heard him utter an unkind word", said Martha Griffiths.[230]
According to the Gallup Organization, Ford took office with the fourth-highest approval rating for a president following their inauguration, but the trust the American public had in him was rapidly and severely tarnished by the pardon of Nixon and his ratings fell an unprecedented 21 points.[231][230] By January 1975, his disapproval rating had surpassed his approval rating.[232]
In spite of his athletic record and remarkable career accomplishments, Ford acquired a reputation as a clumsy, likable, and simple-minded everyman. Henry Kissinger described him as "as close to a normal human being as we'll ever get in that office".[233] Other pieces of the everyman image were attributed to his inevitable comparison with Nixon, his Midwestern stodginess, and his self-deprecation.[229]
An incident in 1975, when Ford tripped while exiting Air Force One in Austria, was famously and repeatedly parodied by Chevy Chase on Saturday Night Live, cementing Ford's image as a klutz.[230][234][235] Additionally, an incident in April 1976, when Ford bit into a still shuck-wrapped tamale, a culinary faux pas, made national news and contributed to the image of Ford as a chronic bumbler.[236] The incident has become a cautionary tale about the hazards of eating on the campaign trail.[237][238]
Ford has notably been portrayed in two television productions which included a central focus on his wife: the Emmy-winning 1987 ABC biographical television movie The Betty Ford Story,[239] and the 2022 Showtime television series The First Lady.[240]
Honors
Foreign honors
Estonia:
First Class of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana (January 7, 1997)
Ford received the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award in May 1970, as well as the Silver Buffalo Award, from the Boy Scouts of America.
In 1974, he also received the highest distinction of the Scout Association of Japan, the Golden Pheasant Award.[241] In 1985, he received the 1985 Old Tom Morris Award from the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, GCSAA's highest honor.[242] In 1992, the U.S. Navy Memorial Foundation awarded Ford its Lone Sailor Award for his naval service and his subsequent government service. In 1999, Ford was honored with a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs Walk of Stars.[243] Also in 1999, Ford was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Bill Clinton.[244] In 2001, he was presented with the John F. Kennedy Profiles in Courage Award for his decision to pardon Richard Nixon to stop the agony America was experiencing over Watergate.[245]
The following are named after Ford:
The Ford House Office Building in the U.S. Capitol Complex, formerly House Annex 2.
Gerald R. Ford Freeway (Nebraska)
Gerald R. Ford Freeway (Michigan)
Gerald Ford Memorial Highway, I-70 in Eagle County, Colorado
Gerald R. Ford International Airport in Grand Rapids, Michigan
Gerald R. Ford Library in Ann Arbor, Michigan
Gerald R. Ford Museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, University of Michigan
Gerald R. Ford Institute of Public Policy, Albion College
USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78)
Gerald R. Ford Middle School, Grand Rapids, Michigan[246]
President Gerald R. Ford Park in Alexandria, Virginia, located in the neighborhood where Ford[247] lived while serving as a Representative and Vice President
President Ford Field Service Council, Boy Scouts of America The council where he was awarded the rank of Eagle Scout. Serves 25 counties in Western and Northern Michigan with its headquarters located in Grand Rapids, Michigan.[248]
See also
List of Freemasons
List of members of the American Legion
List of presidents of the United States
List of presidents of the United States by previous experience
Presidents of the United States on U.S. postage stamps
References
^ Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York City: Basic Books. pp. xxiii, 301. ISBN 978-0-465-04195-4.
^ a b c Lenczowski, George (1990). American Presidents, and the Middle East. Duke University Press. pp. 142–143. ISBN 978-0-8223-0972-7.
^ "Lincoln Wins: Honest Abe tops new presidential survey". CNN. February 16, 2009. Archived from the original on April 4, 2021. Retrieved December 2, 2020.
^ "Presidential Historians Survey 2017". C-SPAN. Archived from the original on March 1, 2017. Retrieved December 2, 2020.
^ "Presidents 2018 Rank by Category" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on February 20, 2019. Retrieved December 2, 2020.
^ "Gerald Ford Retrospective". Gallup, Inc. December 29, 2006. Archived from the original on May 21, 2021. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
^ "Polls: Ford's Image Improved Over Time". CBS News. December 27, 2006. Archived from the original on January 6, 2023. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
^ "President Gerald Ford Lived Here Historical Marker". Historical Marker Database. Retrieved January 27, 2025.
^ Young, Jeff C. (1997). The Fathers of American Presidents. Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland & Co. ISBN 978-0-7864-0182-6.
^ a b Funk, Josh (December 27, 2006). "Nebraska-born Ford Left State as Infant". Associated Press. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved September 2, 2009 – via Fox News.
^ Cannon, James. "Gerald R. Ford". Public Broadcasting System. Archived from the original on January 26, 2011. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
^ "Gerald R. Ford Genealogical Information". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library & Museum. University of Texas. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
^ "Richard Ford remembered as active steward of President Gerald Ford's legacy". MLive. March 20, 2015. Archived from the original on December 22, 2015. Retrieved December 21, 2015.
^ a b Townley, Alvin (2007) [December 26, 2006]. Legacy of Honor: The Values and Influence of America's Eagle Scouts. New York: St. Martin's Press. pp. 12–13 and 87. ISBN 978-0-312-36653-7. Archived from the original on June 5, 2008. Retrieved December 29, 2006.
^ "Investigatory Records on Gerald Ford, Applicant for a Commission" (PDF). Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. December 30, 1941. Archived (PDF) from the original on September 15, 2012. Retrieved November 18, 2010.
^ a b c d e Kunhardt, Phillip Jr. (1999). Gerald R. Ford "Healing the Nation". New York: Riverhead Books. pp. 79–85. Archived from the original on February 3, 2006. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
^ Wertheimer, Linda (December 27, 2006). "Special Report: Former President Gerald Ford Dies; Sought to Heal Nation Disillusioned by Watergate Scandal". National Public Radio. Archived from the original on January 22, 2010. Retrieved April 26, 2009.
^ Perry, Will (1974). "No Cheers From the Alumni" (PDF). The Wolverines: A Story of Michigan Football. Huntsville, Alabama: The Strode Publishers. pp. 150–152. ISBN 978-0-87397-055-6. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
^ Kruger, Brian; Moorehouse, Buddy (August 9, 2012). "Willis Ward, Gerald Ford and Michigan Football's darkest day". The Detroit News. Archived from the original on March 26, 2014. Retrieved October 22, 2012.
^ Greene, J.R. (1995). The Presidency of Gerald R. Ford (American Presidency Series). University Press of Kansas. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-7006-0638-2.
^ "Ford Named Michigan Football Legend; Morgan to Wear No. 48 Jersey". University of Michigan Athletics. Archived from the original on June 30, 2019. Retrieved June 30, 2019.
^ "Clumsy image aside, Ford was Accomplished Athlete". Los Angeles Times. December 28, 2006. Archived from the original on May 23, 2010. Retrieved September 2, 2009.
^ Rozell, Mark J. (October 15, 1992). The Press and the Ford Presidency. University of Michigan Press. p. 38. ISBN 978-0-472-10350-8.
^ a b c d e f g h "Timeline of President Ford's Life and Career". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library & Museum. Archived from the original on December 24, 2006. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
^ Wolff, Wendy (1997). Vice Presidents of the United States 1789–1993. United States Government Printing Office.
^ "Gerald R. Ford". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library & Museum. Retrieved August 17, 2025.
^ "The U-M Remembers Gerald R. Ford". The University of Michigan. Archived from the original on March 8, 2007. Retrieved January 2, 2007.
^ "At Yale, Ford doubled as coach, law student". January 17, 2007. Archived from the original on April 20, 2021. Retrieved April 20, 2021.
^ Gross, Michael (1995). Model. W. Morrow. pp. 54–55. ISBN 978-0-688-12659-9 – via Internet Archive.
^ Doenecke, Justus D. (1990). In Danger Undaunted: The Anti-Interventionist Movement of 1940–1941 As Revealed in the Papers of the America First Committee (Hoover Archival Documentaries). Hoover Institution Press. ISBN 978-0-8179-8841-8. Archived from the original on April 15, 2016. Retrieved December 28, 2006. p. 7
^ a b c d e f Naughton, James M.; Clymer, Adam (December 27, 2006). "Gerald Ford, 38th President, Dies at 93". The New York Times. Archived from the original on August 20, 2020. Retrieved October 19, 2009.
^ "President Ford's US Navy Service – Naval History and Heritage Command" (PDF). Naval History and Heritage Command. Archived (PDF) from the original on April 5, 2021. Retrieved March 28, 2021.
^ Brinkley, p.9
^ a b Hove, Duane (2003). American Warriors: Five Presidents in the Pacific Theater of World War II. Burd Street Press. ISBN 978-1-57249-307-0.
^ "Lieutenant Gerald Ford and Typhoon Cobra". Naval Historical Foundation. February 7, 2013. Archived from the original on November 6, 2017. Retrieved February 8, 2013.
^ "Gerald R. Ford (1913–2006)" (PDF). Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. 2007. p. 9. Retrieved August 20, 2025.
^ Winget, Mary Mueller (2007). Gerald R. Ford. Twenty-First Century Books. ISBN 978-0-8225-1509-8. Archived from the original on September 24, 2023. Retrieved September 3, 2009.
^ Kruse, Melissa (January 3, 2003). "The Patterson Barn, Grand Rapids, Michigan—Barn razing erases vintage landmark". The Grand Rapids Press. p. D1. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved September 3, 2009.
^ a b c "Gerald R. Ford". The New York Times. December 28, 2006. Archived from the original on December 20, 2016. Retrieved December 29, 2006.
^ "Gerald R. Ford". whitehouse.gov. Archived from the original on December 25, 2018. Retrieved October 25, 2009 – via National Archives.
^ "House – June 18, 1957" (PDF). Congressional Record. 103 (7). U.S. Government Printing Office: 9518. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 8, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – August 27, 1957" (PDF). Congressional Record. 103 (12). U.S. Government Printing Office: 16112–16113. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 8, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – March 24, 1960". Congressional Record. 106 (5). U.S. Government Printing Office: 6512. Archived from the original on August 21, 2023. Retrieved August 21, 2023.
^ "House – April 21, 1960" (PDF). Congressional Record. 106 (7). U.S. Government Printing Office: 8507–8508. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 17, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – February 10, 1964" (PDF). Congressional Record. 110 (2). U.S. Government Printing Office: 2804–2805. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 17, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – July 2, 1964" (PDF). Congressional Record. 110 (12). U.S. Government Printing Office: 15897. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 17, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – August 16, 1967" (PDF). Congressional Record. 113 (17). U.S. Government Printing Office: 22778. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 21, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – April 10, 1968" (PDF). Congressional Record. 114 (8). U.S. Government Printing Office: 9621. Archived (PDF) from the original on February 28, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – August 27, 1962" (PDF). Congressional Record. 108 (13). U.S. Government Printing Office: 17670. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 17, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – July 9, 1965" (PDF). Congressional Record. 111 (12). U.S. Government Printing Office: 16285–16286. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 4, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ "House – August 3, 1965" (PDF). Congressional Record. 111 (14). U.S. Government Printing Office: 19201. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 6, 2022. Retrieved February 27, 2022.
^ Celebrating the life of President Gerald R. Ford on what would have been his 96th birthday Archived April 15, 2016, at the Wayback Machine, H.R. 409, 111th Congress, 1st Session (2009).
^ "Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library and Museum". Ford.utexas.edu. Archived from the original on July 24, 2009. Retrieved August 9, 2009.
^ "LBJ Appoints Gerald Ford to the Warren Commission". Miller Center of Public Affairs. Archived from the original on September 25, 2015. Retrieved August 20, 2015.
^ Newton, Jim (2007). Justice for All: Earl Warren and the Nation He Made. Penguin Group. ISBN 978-1-59448-270-0.
^ Stephens, Joe (August 8, 2008). "Ford Told FBI of Skeptics on Warren Commission". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved September 8, 2009.
^ "Ford told FBI about panel's doubts on JFK murder". USA Today. August 9, 2008. Archived from the original on November 6, 2008. Retrieved September 2, 2009.
^ Ford, Gerald R. (2007). A Presidential Legacy and The Warren Commission. The FlatSigned Press. ISBN 978-1-934304-02-0.
^ a b c d e f Davidson, Roger H.; Hammond, Susan Webb; Smock, Raymond (1988). Masters of the House: Congressional leadership over two centuries. Westview Press. pp. 267–275.
^ Rumsfeld, Donald (2011). Known and unknown : a memoir. New York: Sentinel. ISBN 978-1-59523-067-6. OCLC 650210649.
^ Unger, Irwin, 1996: 'The Best of Intentions: the triumphs and failures of the Great Society under Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon': Doubleday, p. 104.
^ Gray, Paul (December 27, 2006). "Gerald Ford: Steady Hand for a Nation in Crisis". Time. Archived from the original on January 8, 2007. Retrieved September 16, 2009.
^ Ford, Gerald (May 23, 2001). "Address by President Gerald R. Ford, May 23, 2001". United States Senate. Archived from the original on December 28, 2006. Retrieved December 30, 2006.
^ Jackson, Harold (December 27, 2006). "Guardian newspaper obituary". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on September 24, 2023. Retrieved December 30, 2006.
^ Reeves, Richard (1975). A Ford, not a Lincoln.
^ Midgley, James; Livermore, Michelle (2008). The Handbook of Social Policy. SAGE. p. 162. ISBN 978-1-4129-5076-3.
^ Hoff, Joan (1995). Nixon Reconsidered. Basic Books. p. 69. ISBN 978-0-465-05105-2.
^ Naughton, James M. (October 11, 1973). "Judge Orders Fine, 3 Years' Probation". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 11, 2020. Retrieved August 28, 2020.
^ "Gerald R. Ford Events Timeline", Archived September 28, 2022, at the Wayback Machine The American Presidency Project, University of California, Santa Barbara, Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, last edited February 2, 2021
^ "Gerald R. Ford's Remarks Upon Taking the Oath of Office as President". The Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. August 9, 1974. Archived from the original on December 5, 2019. Retrieved November 18, 2010.
^ "Remarks By President Gerald Ford On Taking the Oath Of Office As President". Watergate.info. 1974. Archived from the original on July 3, 2008. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
^ Ford, Gerald R. (August 9, 1974). "Gerald R. Ford's Remarks on Taking the Oath of Office as President". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. Archived from the original on August 13, 2012. Retrieved May 2, 2011.
^ "The Daily Diary of President Gerald R. Ford" (PDF). Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. August 20, 1976. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 26, 2020. Retrieved November 19, 2010.
^ "The Vice Presidency: Rocky's Turn to the Right". Time. May 12, 1975. Archived from the original on March 1, 2009. Retrieved September 8, 2009.
^ Ford, Gerald (September 8, 1974). "President Gerald R. Ford's Proclamation 4311, Granting a Pardon to Richard Nixon". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library & Museum. University of Texas. Archived from the original on June 6, 2010. Retrieved December 30, 2006.
^ Ford, Gerald (September 8, 1974). "Presidential Proclamation 4311 by President Gerald R. Ford granting a pardon to Richard M. Nixon". Pardon images. University of Maryland. Archived from the original on October 11, 2007. Retrieved December 30, 2006.
^ "Ford Pardons Nixon – Events of 1974 – Year in Review". UPI.com. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved November 4, 2011.
^ Ford, Gerald (September 8, 1974). "Gerald R. Ford Pardoning Richard Nixon". Great Speeches Collection. The History Place. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved December 30, 2006.
^ Brinkley, p. 73
^ a b Shane, Scott (December 29, 2006). "For Ford, Pardon Decision Was Always Clear-Cut". The New York Times. p. A1. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved September 8, 2009.
^ "Ford Testimony on Nixon Pardon – C-SPAN Video Library". C-SPAN Video Library. C-spanvideo.org. October 17, 1974. Archived from the original on October 16, 2012. Retrieved December 30, 2012.
^ "Sitting presidents and vice presidents who have testified before congressional committees" (PDF). Senate.gov. 2004. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 9, 2014. Retrieved November 22, 2015.
^ "Fred Barnes on Conversations with Bill Kristol". May 24, 2015. Archived from the original on October 20, 2016. Retrieved September 13, 2021.
^ Shadow, by Bob Woodward, chapter on Gerald Ford; Woodward interviewed Ford on this matter, about twenty years after Ford left the presidency
^ "Award Announcement". JFK Library Foundation. May 1, 2001. Archived from the original on January 15, 2007. Retrieved March 31, 2007.
^ "Sen. Ted Kennedy crossed political paths with Grand Rapids' most prominent Republican, President Gerald R. Ford" Archived September 30, 2017, at the Wayback Machine, The Grand Rapids Press, August 26, 2009. Retrieved January 5, 2010.
^ Hunter, Marjorie (September 16, 1974). "Ford Offers Amnesty Program Requiring 2 Years Public Work; Defends His Pardon Of Nixon". The New York Times. Archived from the original on September 28, 2022. Retrieved September 17, 2022.
^ "Gerald R. Ford: Proclamation 4313 – Announcing a Program for the Return of Vietnam Era Draft Evaders and Military Deserters (September 16 1974)". ucsb.edu. Archived from the original on February 1, 2012. Retrieved September 13, 2021.
^ "Carter's Pardon". McNeil/Lehrer Report. Public Broadcasting System. January 21, 1977. Archived from the original on February 28, 2007. Retrieved December 30, 2006.
^ Secretary of Transportation: William T. Coleman Jr. (1975–1977) Archived June 28, 2006, at the Wayback Machine – AmericanPresident.org (January 15, 2005). Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "George Herbert Walker Bush Profile". CNN. Archived from the original on October 28, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Richard B. Cheney Archived September 3, 1999, at the Wayback Machine. United States Department of Defense. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Bush vetoes less than most presidents Archived November 11, 2007, at the Wayback Machine, CNN, May 1, 2007. Retrieved October 19, 2007.
^ Renka, Russell D. Nixon's Fall and the Ford and Carter Interregnum. Southeast Missouri State University, (April 10, 2003). Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ a b c d Greene, John Robert. The Presidency of Gerald R. Ford. University Press of Kansas, 1995
^ Gerald Ford Speeches: Whip Inflation Now Archived August 29, 2008, at the Wayback Machine (October 8, 1974), Miller Center of Public Affairs. Retrieved May 18, 2011
^ Brinkley, Douglas. Gerald R. Ford. New York: Times Books, 2007
^ "WIN buttons and Arthur Burns". Econbrowser. 2006. Archived from the original on January 6, 2007. Retrieved January 24, 2007.
^ a b Crain, Andrew Downer. The Ford Presidency. Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland, 2009
^ Dale, Edwin L. Jr. (November 22, 1974). "Consumer prices up 0.9% in October, 12.2% for year; annual rate is highest since 1947". The New York Times. p. 1. Archived from the original on March 26, 2014. Retrieved February 8, 2017.
^ CRS Report RL33305, The Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax of the 1980s: Implications for Current Energy Policy Archived February 11, 2012, at the Wayback Machine, by Salvatore Lazzari, p. 5.
^ "President Gerald R. Ford's Statement on Signing the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. December 2, 1975. Archived from the original on September 26, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Campbell, Ballard C. (2008). "1973 oil embargo". Disasters, accidents and crises in American history: a reference guide to the nation's most catastrophic events. New York: Facts On File. p. 353. ISBN 978-0-8160-6603-2.
^ Dale, Edwin L. Jr. (June 7, 1975). "U.S. jobless rate up to 9.2% in May, highest since '41". The New York Times. p. 1. Archived from the original on July 22, 2018. Retrieved July 22, 2018.
Stein, Judith (2010). "1975 'Capitalism is on the run'". Pivotal decade: how the United States traded factories for finance in the seventies. New Haven: Yale University Press. pp. 116–117. ISBN 978-0-300-11818-6.
^ "Office of Management and Budget. "Historical Table 1.1"". Office of Management and Budget. Archived from the original on November 30, 2019. Retrieved January 22, 2011 – via National Archives.
^ Roberts, Sam (December 28, 2006). "Infamous 'Drop Dead' Was Never Said by Ford". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 9, 2019. Retrieved February 16, 2011.
^ Van Riper, Frank (October 30, 1975). "Ford to New York: Drop Dead". Daily News. New York. Archived from the original on October 6, 2008. Retrieved February 20, 2012.
^ Pandemic Pointers Archived September 27, 2007, at the Wayback Machine. Living on Earth, March 3, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Mickle, Paul. 1976: Fear of a great plague Archived August 26, 2017, at the Wayback Machine. The Trentonian. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "Fords get their flu shots; some clinics, closed after deaths, are reopened". The Sun (Baltimore). Associated Press. October 15, 1976. p. A1. ProQuest 538320129.
^ Ford, Gerald R. (August 26, 1975). "Proclamation 4383 – Women's Equality Day, 1975". The American Presidency Project. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved May 2, 2011.
^ "Presidential Campaign Debate Between Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter, October 22, 1976". Fordlibrarymuseum.gov. Archived from the original on September 17, 2009. Retrieved September 8, 2009.
^ Ford, Gerald (September 10, 1976). "Letter to the Archbishop of Cincinnati". The American Presidency Project. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved June 12, 2007.
^ Greene, John Edward (1995). The presidency of Gerald R. Ford. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas. p. 33. ISBN 978-0-7006-0639-9.
^ "The Best of Interviews With Gerald Ford". Larry King Live Weekend. CNN. February 3, 2001. Archived from the original on March 19, 2008. Retrieved June 12, 2007.
^ a b c Mieczkowski, Yanek (2005). Gerald Ford and the Challenges of the 1970s. Lexington, Kentucky: University Press of Kentucky. pp. 283–284, 290–294. ISBN 978-0-8131-2349-3.
^ "Trip To China". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. University of Texas. Archived from the original on September 24, 2015. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "President Gerald R. Ford's Address in Helsinki Before the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe". USA-presidents.info. Archived from the original on October 10, 2007. Retrieved April 4, 2007.
^ "About Human Rights Watch". Human Rights Watch. Archived from the original on December 27, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "President Ford got Canada into G7". Canadian Broadcasting Company. December 27, 2006. Archived from the original on January 3, 2007. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ a b L'influence américaine au Nigéria (in French). Economic Warfare School. March 31, 2008.
^ Green, Marshall (June 1993). "The Evolution of US International Population Policy, 1965–92: A Chronological Account". Population and Development Review. 19 (2): 303–321. doi:10.2307/2938439. ISSN 0098-7921. JSTOR 2938439.
^ Grimes, Seamus (September 1998). "From Population Control to 'Reproductive Rights': Ideological Influences in Population Policy". Third World Quarterly. 19 (3). Taylor & Francis: 375–393. doi:10.1080/01436599814307. PMID 12321786.
^ "National Security Study Memorandum - NSSM 200" (PDF). USAID. December 10, 1974. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 1, 2021. Retrieved November 28, 2021.
^ a b Green, Marshall (June 1993). "The Evolution of US International Population Policy, 1965–92: A Chronological Account". Population and Development Review. 19 (2): 303–321. doi:10.2307/2938439. ISSN 0098-7921. JSTOR 2938439.
^ Zubrin, Robert (Spring 2012). "The Population Control Holocaust". The New Atlantis. 35: 33–54.
^ Schwarz (1994), p. 207.
^ Benedict Andersen, "East Timor and Indonesia: Some Implications", paper delivered to the Social Science Research Council Workshop on East Timor, Washington, DC, April 25–26, 1991 cited in Schwarz (1994), p. 207.
^ "Indonesian Use of MAP [Military Assistance Program] Equipment in Timor, Memorandum from Clinton E. Granger to Brent Scowcroft" (PDF). National Security Council. December 12, 1975. Archived (PDF) from the original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved September 5, 2017.
^ Burr, William; Evans, Michael L., eds. (December 6, 2001). "Ford, Kissinger and the Indonesian Invasion, 1975–76". National Security Archive. Archived from the original on February 14, 2016. Retrieved February 13, 2016. Ford and Kissinger Gave Green Light to Indonesia's Invasion of East Timor, 1975: New Documents Detail Conversations with Suharto
^ Gerald Ford, A Time to Heal, 1979, p.240
^ Rabin, Yitzak (1996), The Rabin Memoirs, University of California Press, p. 256, ISBN 978-0-520-20766-0
^ Rabin, Yitzhak (1996). The Rabin memoirs. Dov Goldstein (translator) (Expanded ed.). Berkeley: University of California Press. p. 261. ISBN 978-0-520-20766-0.
^ George Lenczowski, American Presidents, and the Middle East, 1990, p.150
^ Gerald Ford, A Time to Heal, 1979, p.298
^ Church, Peter, ed. (2006). A Short History of South-East Asia. Singapore: John Wiley & Sons. pp. 193–194. ISBN 978-0-470-82181-7.
^ a b c Brinkley, Douglas (2007). Gerald R. Ford. New York, NY: Times Books. pp. 89–98. ISBN 978-0-8050-6909-9.
^ Karnow, Stanley (1991). Vietnam: A History. Viking. ISBN 978-0-14-014533-5.
^ "Vietnam's President Thieu resigns". BBC News. April 21, 1975. Archived from the original on November 22, 2010. Retrieved September 24, 2009.
^ Plummer Alston Jones (2004). "Still struggling for equality: American public library services with minorities". Libraries Unlimited. p.84. ISBN 1-59158-243-1
^ Robinson, William Courtland (1998). Terms of refuge: the Indochinese exodus & the international response. Zed Books. p. 127. ISBN 978-1-85649-610-0.
^ Gawthorpe, A. J. (2009), "The Ford Administration and Security Policy in the Asia-Pacific after the Fall of Saigon", The Historical Journal, 52(3):697–716.
^ "Debrief of the Mayaguez Captain and Crew". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. May 19, 1975. Archived from the original on June 20, 2010. Retrieved November 18, 2010.
^ "Capture and Release of SS Mayaguez by Khmer Rouge forces in May 1975". United States Merchant Marine. 2000. Archived from the original on July 18, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Gerald R. Ford, A Time to Heal, p. 284
^ Cécile Menétray-Monchau (August 2005), "The Mayaguez Incident as an Epilogue to the Vietnam War and its Reflection on the Post-Vietnam Political Equilibrium in Southeast Asia", Cold War History, p. 346.
^ Gawthorpe, Andrew J. (September 1, 2009). "The Ford Administration and Security Policy in the Asia-Pacific after the Fall of Saigon". The Historical Journal. 52 (3): 707–709. doi:10.1017/S0018246X09990082. ISSN 1469-5103. S2CID 155076037.
^ a b c Greene, John Robert (October 4, 2016). "Gerald Ford: Family Life". Charlottesville, Virginia: Miller Center of Public Affairs, University of Virginia. Archived from the original on March 26, 2018. Retrieved March 25, 2018.
^ "1975 Year in Review: Ford Assassinations Attempts". Upi.com. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved May 30, 2011.
^ "Election Is Crunch Time for U.S. Secret Service" Archived November 29, 2006, at the Wayback Machine. National Geographic News. Retrieved March 2, 2008.
^ "Charles Manson follower Lynette 'Squeaky' Fromme released from prison after more than 30 years". Daily News. New York. Associated Press. August 14, 2009. Archived from the original on January 30, 2013. Retrieved September 7, 2011.
^ United States Secret Service. "Public Report of the White House Security Review". United States Department of the Treasury. Archived from the original on March 23, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2007.
^ Lee, Vic (January 2, 2007). "Interview: Woman Who Tried To Assassinate Ford". San Francisco: KGO-TV. Archived from the original on September 14, 2007. Retrieved January 3, 2007.
^ "John Paul Stevens". Oyez. Archived from the original on August 22, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "News Release, Congressman Gerald R. Ford" (PDF). The Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. April 15, 1970. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 24, 2010. Retrieved November 18, 2010.
^ Levenick, Christopher (September 25, 2005). "The Conservative Persuasion". The Daily Standard. Archived from the original on September 8, 2015. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Letter from Gerald Ford to Michael Treanor Archived June 14, 2007, at the Wayback Machine. Fordham University, September 21, 2005. Retrieved March 2, 2008.
^ Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a public-domain publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
^ Another Loss For the Gipper Archived February 7, 2021, at the Wayback Machine. Time, March 29, 1976. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ VH1 News Presents: Politics: A Pop Culture History Premiering Wednesday, October 20 at 10:00 pm (ET/PT) Archived January 25, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. PRNewswire October 19, 2004. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Election of 1976: A Political Outsider Prevails. C-SPAN. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Shabecoff, Philip. "160,000 Mark Two 1775 Battles; Concord Protesters Jeer Ford – Reconciliation Plea", The New York Times, April 20, 1975, p. 1.
^ Shabecoff, Philip. "Ford, on Bicentennial Trip, Bids U.S. Heed Old Values", The New York Times, April 19, 1975, p. 1.
^ "1976 Presidential Debates". CNN. Archived from the original on September 27, 2011. Retrieved September 28, 2011.
^ Lehrer, Jim (2000). "1976:No Audio and No Soviet Domination". Debating Our Destiny. PBS. Archived from the original on March 11, 2007. Retrieved March 31, 2007.
^ "Presidential Election 1976 States Carried" Archived November 14, 2006, at the Wayback Machine. multied.com. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "Jimmy Carter". U.S. Inaugural Addresses. Bartleby.com. January 20, 1977. Archived from the original on December 16, 2008. Retrieved August 14, 2009.
^ Seal, Mark (November 1, 2005). "The Man Who Ate Hollywood". Vanity Fair. Archived from the original on January 13, 2012. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
^ Perrone, Marguerite. "Eisenhower Fellowship: A History 1953–2003". 2003.
^ Naughton, James M (December 27, 2006). "The Real Jerry Ford". PoynterOnline. Archived from the original on April 11, 2007. Retrieved March 31, 2007.
^ Smith, Gaddis (1979). "A Time to Heal". Foreign Affairs. Council on Foreign Relations. Archived from the original on November 7, 2004. Retrieved April 26, 2009.
^ Kornblut, Anne (December 29, 2006). "Ford Arranged His Funeral to Reflect Himself and Drew in a Former Adversary". The New York Times. Archived from the original on March 7, 2008. Retrieved April 4, 2007.
^ Updegrove, Mark K. (August–September 2006). "Flying Coach to Cairo". American Heritage. Vol. 57, no. 4. Archived from the original on November 22, 2011. Retrieved September 28, 2011. "Certainly few observers in January 1977 would have predicted that Jimmy and I would become the closest of friends," Ford said in 2000.
^ Lessenberry, Jack (April 20, 1981). "Ford to Formally Unveil His Presidential Library". Toledo Blade. Retrieved September 3, 2009.[permanent dead link]
^ Ford, Gerald R. (September 18, 1981). "Remarks at the Dedication of the Gerald R. Ford Museum in Grand Rapids, Michigan". Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. Archived from the original on December 24, 2010. Retrieved November 18, 2010.
^ Tucker, Brian (September 18, 1981). "Reagan Praises Ford at Opening of Museum". The Boston Globe. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved September 3, 2009.
^ Brownstein, Ronald (February 15, 1987). "The Selling of the ex-President: Nixon and Carter Just Wrote Books. Ford Had a Better Idea". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on January 29, 2023. Retrieved March 24, 2023.
^ Thomas, Evan (2007). "The 38th President: More Than Met the Eye". Newsweek. Archived from the original on January 25, 2009. Retrieved January 4, 2009.
^ Allen, Richard V. "How the Bush Dynasty Almost Wasn't" (Archived July 6, 2008, at the Wayback Machine), Hoover Institution, reprinted from The New York Times Magazine, July 30, 2000. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "Reagan campaign ad". Livingroomcandidate.org. November 4, 1979. Archived from the original on January 9, 2011. Retrieved January 22, 2011.
^ Uhlenbrock, Tom (October 8, 1980). "Former President Gerald Ford said Wednesday former President Richard..." UPI. Archived from the original on August 28, 2017. Retrieved August 28, 2017.
^ "Former President Gerald Ford Friday accused President Carter of..." UPI. October 3, 1980. Archived from the original on August 29, 2017. Retrieved August 28, 2017.
^ Brownstein, Pamela (April 3, 1981). "Former President Gerald Ford says people who commit crimes..." UPI. Archived from the original on August 23, 2017. Retrieved August 22, 2017.
^ "Former President Gerald Ford had some advice today for..." UPI. September 18, 1981. Archived from the original on December 1, 2017. Retrieved September 12, 2017.
^ "Former President Gerald Ford continued his campaign in favor..." UPI. October 20, 1981. Archived from the original on December 1, 2017. Retrieved September 12, 2017.
^ Sawislak, Arnold (March 24, 1982). "Former President Gerald Ford endorsed President Reagan's handling of..." UPI. Archived from the original on September 5, 2017. Retrieved September 4, 2017.
^ Whipple, Scott (October 18, 2005). "A $3m gift". The New Britain Herald. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved September 9, 2009.
^ Henry, Tamara (August 10, 1982). "Gerald Ford: 'Carter administration blew it'". UPI. Archived from the original on August 22, 2017. Retrieved August 22, 2017.
^ "Former President Gerald Ford and former Vice President Walter..." UPI. October 21, 1982. Archived from the original on September 5, 2017. Retrieved September 4, 2017.
^ "Former presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter have signed..." UPI. January 2, 1984. Archived from the original on October 7, 2017. Retrieved October 7, 2017.
^ "Archives - Philly.com". The Philadelphia Inquirer. Archived from the original on March 31, 2016. Retrieved March 20, 2016.
^ Greenhouse, Linda (October 24, 1987). "Bork's Nomination Is Rejected, 58–42; Reagan 'Saddened'". The New York Times. Archived from the original on February 4, 2017. Retrieved February 8, 2017.
^ "Board Games". New York Magazine. LLC. January 25, 1988. pp. 19–. ISSN 0028-7369. Archived from the original on September 24, 2023. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
^ "Ford's Citigroup Connection". The Wall Street Journal. December 27, 2006. Archived from the original on November 24, 2012. Retrieved February 19, 2012.
^ "Ike commemorated with 100th birthday bash". UPI. October 14, 1990. Archived from the original on October 11, 2017. Retrieved October 11, 2017.
^ "Carter, Ford Join Other Former Presidents in Backing Gun Bill". Los Angeles Times. Associated Press. April 29, 1991. Archived from the original on July 14, 2014. Retrieved July 4, 2014.
^ Eaton, William J. (May 5, 1994). "Ford, Carter, Reagan Push for Gun Ban". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on September 10, 2014. Retrieved July 4, 2014.
^ Langford, Mark. "Ford warns Clinton victory would return America to Carter era". UPI. Archived from the original on August 22, 2017. Retrieved August 22, 2017.
^ Bennet, James (April 29, 1997). "Presidents Call for Big Citizenship, Not Big Government". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 28, 2019. Retrieved December 19, 2017.
^ Berke, Richard L. (January 20, 1998). "Ford Urges G.O.P. to Drop Abortion Issue and Shift Center". The New York Times. Archived from the original on January 20, 2018. Retrieved December 19, 2017.
^ "Carter breaks silence on Clinton, says nation will heal". Emory. September 28, 1998. Archived from the original on October 15, 2016. Retrieved August 17, 2017.
^ Price, Deb. "Gerald Ford: Treat gay couples equally" Archived January 20, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. The Detroit News, October 29, 2001. Retrieved December 28, 2006
^ Stolberg, Sheryl Gay. "Vocal Gay Republicans Upsetting Conservatives", The New York Times, June 1, 2003, p. N26.
^ Woodward, Bob. "Ford Disagreed With Bush About Invading Iraq" Archived February 18, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. The Washington Post, December 28, 2006. Retrieved December 28, 2006
^ "Embargoed Interview Reveals Ford Opposed Iraq War" Archived December 28, 2006, at the Wayback Machine. Democracy Now Headlines for December 28, 2006. Retrieved December 28, 2006
^ "Ford undergoes knee surgery". UPI. April 4, 1990. Archived from the original on December 1, 2017. Retrieved November 26, 2017.
^ "Gerald Ford recovering after strokes" . BBC, August 2, 2000. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ Ayres, B. Drummond Jr. (August 3, 2000). "Hospitalized After Suffering a Stroke, Former President Ford Is Expected to Fully Recover". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on December 2, 2022. Retrieved December 1, 2022.
^ Former "President Ford, 92, hospitalized with pneumonia" Archived May 1, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. USA Today, Associated Press, January 17, 2006. Retrieved October 19, 2007.
^ "Gerald Ford released from hospital" . NBC News, Associated Press, July 26, 2006. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "Former President Gerald Ford Released from Hospital". Fox News. October 16, 2006. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved September 3, 2009.
^ "Gerald Ford Dies At Age 93" Archived May 15, 2008, at the Wayback Machine. CNN Transcript December 26, 2006. Retrieved March 2, 2008.
^ DeFrank T: Write It When I'm Gone, G. Putnam & Sons, New York, NY, 2007.
^ Stout, David (January 2, 2007). "Bush and ex-presidents eulogize Gerald R. Ford". The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved September 3, 2009.
^ "Lying in State or in Honor". US Architect of the Capitol (AOC). Archived from the original on May 18, 2019. Retrieved September 1, 2018.
^ Davey, Monica (January 4, 2007). "Ford Is Buried After Thousands in Hometown Pay Respects". The New York Times. Archived from the original on June 5, 2015. Retrieved October 16, 2009.
^ Ray, Mark (2007). "Eagle Scout Welcome Gerald Ford Home". Scouting Magazine. Boy Scouts of America. Archived from the original on June 26, 2007. Retrieved March 5, 2007.
^ Kornblut, Anne E. (December 29, 2006). "Ford Arranged His Funeral to Reflect Himself and Drew in a Former Adversary". The New York Times. New York. Retrieved July 20, 2024.
^ "Funeral: Marching Band Plays in His Honor". Eugene Register-Guard. January 3, 2007. Retrieved September 2, 2009.[permanent dead link]
^ "A Common Man on an Uncommon Climb" (PDF). The New York Times. August 19, 1976. p. 28. Archived from the original on September 24, 2023. Retrieved April 26, 2009.
^ a b Howard, Jane (December 8, 1974). "The 38th First Lady: Not a Robot At All". The New York Times. Archived from the original on June 7, 2018. Retrieved June 30, 2018 – via The TimesMachine archive viewer.
^ "Gerald R. Ford 1913–2006". Van Nuys, Calif.: Sons of the Revolution in the State of California. 2006. Archived from the original on October 6, 2008. Retrieved January 8, 2010.
^ The Supreme Council, Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, USA.
^ "Gerald Ford". The American Presidency Project. University of California – Santa Barbara. Archived from the original on February 28, 2007. Retrieved January 17, 2007.
^ Brady, Wayne (December 31, 2006). "Masonic Record of Gerald Ford". Archived from the original on May 17, 2020. Retrieved December 6, 2016.
^ "Masonic American Presidents | The Grand Lodge of Minnesota". www.mn-masons.org. Archived from the original on March 2, 2017. Retrieved December 6, 2016.
^ Larson, Donna (January 11, 1977). "The Daily Diary of President Gerald R. Ford" (PDF). Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library. Archived (PDF) from the original on February 10, 2017. Retrieved December 6, 2016.
^ McCraw, William; Galop, Stephen. "The Brother President". www.freemason.org. Masons of California. Archived from the original on June 9, 2020. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
^ a b "Gerald Ford, Betty's Husband". The Phoenix Media/Communications Group. Archived from the original on May 1, 2011. Retrieved December 4, 2009.
^ a b c "Gerald R Ford". The Independent. London. January 21, 2009. Archived from the original on July 17, 2010. Retrieved December 2, 2009.
^ Daniel, Clifton (October 13, 1974). Ford's Gallup Rating Off 21 Points After Pardon. The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2024.
^ Gallup, George (February 21, 1975). Criticism of Ford Policies. Gallup Organization. St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Retrieved October 31, 2024.
^ "Differences in Policy between Nixon and Ford Administrations". history.state.gov. Office of the Historian. October 22, 2007. Archived from the original on December 6, 2023. Retrieved September 16, 2024.
^ Jake, Coyle (September 12, 2008). "'SNL' returns with spotlight on prez impersonators". CBS Interactive Inc. Archived from the original on October 12, 2010. Retrieved September 16, 2008.
^ "Chevy Chase recalls Ford as 'a terrific guy': 'SNL' comedian became famous in the 1970s portraying president as klutz". Today.com. December 27, 2006. Archived from the original on February 12, 2017. Retrieved September 16, 2008.
^ Chandler, Adam (February 5, 2015). "A Briefing on the Eating of Tamales". The Atlantic. Retrieved September 29, 2024.
^ Lenz, Lyz (September 3, 2022). "Eating While Politicking Is Harder Than It's Ever Been. Here's Why". Politico Magazine. Retrieved September 29, 2024.
^ "Food Fails: The Presidential Edition". New York Times. July 26, 2016. Retrieved September 29, 2024.
^ Pearl, Diana (February 21, 2017). "White House Couples That Have Been Portrayed on Screen". People. Archived from the original on May 15, 2022. Retrieved May 15, 2022.
^ Otterson, Joe (February 16, 2021). "Aaron Eckhart to Play Gerald Ford in Showtime Series 'The First Lady'". Variety. Archived from the original on May 15, 2022. Retrieved May 15, 2022.
^ 䝪䞊䜲䝇䜹䜴䝖日本連盟 きじ章受章者 [Recipient of the Golden Pheasant Award of the Scout Association of Japan] (PDF). Reinanzaka Scout Club (in Japanese). May 23, 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on August 11, 2020.
^ "Old Tom Morris Award Recipients". Golf Course Superintendents Association of America. Archived from the original on November 12, 2011. Retrieved September 28, 2011.
^ "Palm Springs Walk of Stars: By Date Dedicated" (PDF). Archived from the original on April 19, 2015. Retrieved December 17, 2014.
^ "Politicians Who Received the Medal of Freedom". The Political Graveyard. Archived from the original on March 19, 2021. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "Gerald Ford". John F. Kennedy Library Foundation. 2001. Archived from the original on January 6, 2007. Retrieved December 31, 2006.
^ "Gerald R. Ford Middle School, Grand Rapids Public Schools". grpublicschools.org. Archived from the original on February 1, 2012. Retrieved February 25, 2012.
^ "Gerald Ford in Alexandria". Archived from the original on January 28, 2018. Retrieved January 28, 2018.
^ "President Ford Field Service Council, Boy Scouts of America". michiganscouting.org. Archived from the original on September 18, 2010. Retrieved September 11, 2010.
Bibliography
Further information: Presidency of Gerald Ford § Further reading, and Foreign policy of the Gerald Ford administration § Bibliography
Brinkley, Douglas (2007). Gerald R. Ford. New York, New York. ISBN 978-0-8050-6909-9.{{cite book}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) short biography
Cannon, James. Gerald R. Ford: An Honorable Life (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 2013) 482 pp. official biography by a member of the Ford administration
Cannon, James (1993). Time and Chance: Gerald R. Ford's Appointment with History. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press. ISBN 978-0-472-08482-1. older full-scale biography
Congressional Quarterly. President Ford: the man and his record (1974) online
Firestone, Bernard J.; Ugrinsky, Alexej, eds. (1992). Gerald R. Ford and the Politics of Post-Watergate America. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press. ISBN 978-0-313-28009-2.
John Robert Greene. The Limits of Power: The Nixon and Ford Administrations. ISBN 978-0-253-32637-9. Indiana University Press, 1992.
John Robert Greene. The Presidency of Gerald R. Ford. ISBN 978-0-7006-0639-9. University Press of Kansas, 1995. the major scholarly study
Hersey, John Richard. The President: A Minute-By-Minute Account of a Week in the Life of Gerald Ford. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. 1975.
Hult, Karen M. and Walcott, Charles E. Empowering the White House: Governance under Nixon, Ford, and Carter. University Press of Kansas, 2004.
Jespersen, T. Christopher. "Kissinger, Ford, and Congress: the Very Bitter End in Vietnam". Pacific Historical Review 2002 71#3: 439–473. Online Archived August 1, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
Jespersen, T. Christopher. "The Bitter End and the Lost Chance in Vietnam: Congress, the Ford Administration, and the Battle over Vietnam, 1975–76". Diplomatic History 2000 24#2: 265–293. Online Archived January 26, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
Kaufman, Scott (2017). Ambition, Pragmatism, and Party: A Political Biography of Gerald R. Ford. Lawrence, Kansas: University Press of Kansas. ISBN 978-0-7006-2500-0. latest full-scale biography
Parmet, Herbert S. "Gerald R. Ford" in Henry F Graff ed., The Presidents: A Reference History (3rd ed. 2002); short scholarly overview
Randolph, Sallie G. Gerald R. Ford, president (1987) online; for secondary schools
Schoenebaum, Eleanora. Political Profiles: The Nixon/Ford years (1979) online, short biographies of over 500 political and national leaders.
Smith, Richard Norton. An Ordinary Man: The Surprising Life and Historic Presidency of Gerald R. Ford (Harper, 2023)
Williams, Daniel K. The Election of the Evangelical: Jimmy Carter, Gerald Ford, and the Presidential Contest of 1976 (University Press of Kansas, 2020) online review Archived August 20, 2021, at the Wayback Machine
Primary sources
Ford, Gerald (1994). Presidential Perspectives from the National Archives. Washington, District of Columbia: National Archives and Records Administration. ISBN 978-1-880875-04-9.
Ford, Gerald (1987). Humor and the Presidency. New York: Arbor House. ISBN 978-0-87795-918-2.
Ford, Gerald (1979). A Time to Heal: The Autobiography of Gerald R. Ford. New York, New York: Harper & Row. ISBN 978-0-06-011297-4.
"Gerald Ford Presidential Autograph Letters". SMF. Shapell Manuscript Foundation. Archived from the original on October 29, 2018. Retrieved August 25, 2019.
Ford, Gerald (1973). Selected Speeches. Arlington, Va.: R. W. Beatty. ISBN 978-0-87948-029-5.
Ford, Gerald (1965). Portrait of the assassin (Lee Harvey Oswald). New York, New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-121-97551-4.
Ford, Betty (1978). The Times of My Life. New York: Harper & Row. ISBN 978-0-06-011298-1.
Thompson, Kenneth, ed. (1980). The Ford Presidency: Twenty-Two Intimate Perspectives of Gerald Ford. Lanham: University Press of America. ISBN 978-0-8191-6960-0.
External links
Gerald Ford
at Wikipedia's sister projects
Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsNews from WikinewsQuotations from WikiquoteTexts from Wikisource
Official sites
Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library and Museum
Gerald R. Ford Presidential Foundation
Media coverage
Gerald Ford collected news and commentary at The New York Times
Appearances on C-SPAN
"Life Portrait of Gerald R. Ford", from C-SPAN's American Presidents: Life Portraits, November 22, 1999
Other
United States Congress. "Gerald Ford (id: F000260)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.
Gerald Ford: A Resource Guide from the Library of Congress.
Essays on Gerald Ford, each member of his cabinet and First Lady from the Miller Center of Public Affairs
Works by or about Gerald Ford at the Internet Archive
Works by Gerald Ford at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
Gerald Ford at IMDb
Works by Gerald Ford at Project Gutenberg
vteGerald Ford
38th President of the United States (1974–1977)
40th Vice President of the United States (1973–1974)
U.S. Representative for MI–5 (1949–1973)
Presidency(timeline)
Inauguration
Timeline
Foreign policy
Federal-Aid Highway Amendments of 1974
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
Safe Drinking Water Act
Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976
Equal Credit Opportunity Act
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act
Education for All Handicapped Children Act
Vladivostok Summit Meeting on Arms Control
Helsinki Accords
National Security Study Memorandum 200
Nixon pardon
Whip inflation now
Cannabis policy
Wilson desk
Assassination attempts
Sacramento
San Francisco
State of the Union Addresses
1975
1976
1977
Judicial appointments
Supreme Court candidates
controversies
Betty Ford's August 1975 60 Minutes interview
Executive Orders
Presidential Proclamations
Life
Gerald R. Ford Birthsite and Gardens
President Gerald R. Ford Jr. Boyhood Home
Gerald R. Ford Jr. House
Warren Commission
Confirmation as Vice President
AEI World Forum
Death and state funeral
Gerald R. Ford Presidential Museum
Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library
Elections
United States House of Representatives elections
1948
1950
1952
1954
1956
1958
1960
1962
1964
1966
1968
1970
1972
1976 presidential campaign
presidential election
Carter transition
Republican Party presidential primaries
1976
1980
1976 Republican National Convention
1976
1980
Culturaldepictions
The Pink Panther Strikes Again (1976)
Superman vs. Muhammad Ali (1978)
Dynasty (1981)
The Betty Ford Story (1987)
Assassins (1990)
"Two Bad Neighbors" (1996)
Saturday Night Live parodies
The X-Presidents (1997)
Presidential Reunion (2010)
The Political Machine (2004)
The Butler (2013)
The First Lady (2022)
Legacy
Gerald R. Ford International Airport
Gerald R. Ford Award
Ford School of Public Policy
Ford House Office Building
USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78)
Gerald R. Ford Freeway
U.S. Postage stamps
Statue
Family
Charles Henry King (grandfather)
Leslie Lynch King Sr. (father)
Dorothy Gardner Ford (mother)
Gerald Rudolff Ford (stepfather)
Thomas Gardner Ford (half-brother)
Betty Ford (wife)
Michael Gerald Ford (son)
John Gardner Ford (son)
Steven Meigs Ford (son)
Susan Ford Bales (daughter)
Liberty (family dog)
← Richard Nixon
Jimmy Carter →
← Spiro Agnew
Nelson Rockefeller →
Category
Offices and distinctions
U.S. House of Representatives
Preceded byBartel J. Jonkman
Member of the U.S. House of Representativesfrom Michigan's 5th congressional district 1949–1973
Succeeded byRichard Vander Veen
Preceded byCharles A. Halleck
House Minority Leader 1965–1973
Succeeded byJohn Jacob Rhodes
Party political offices
Preceded byCharles B. Hoeven
Chair of the House Republican Conference 1963–1965
Succeeded byMelvin Laird
Preceded byCharles A. Halleck
House Republican Leader 1965–1973
Succeeded byJohn Jacob Rhodes
First
Response to the State of the Union address 1966, 1967, 1968
Served alongside: Everett Dirksen (1966, 1967), Howard Baker, George H. W. Bush, Peter Dominick, Robert Griffin, Thomas Kuchel, Mel Laird, Bob Mathias, George Murphy, Dick Poff, Chuck Percy, Al Quie, Charlotte Reid, Hugh Scott, Bill Steiger, John Tower (1968)
VacantTitle next held byDonald Fraser, Scoop Jackson, Mike Mansfield, John McCormack, Patsy Mink, Ed Muskie, Bill Proxmire
Preceded byRichard Nixon
Republican nominee for President of the United States 1976
Succeeded byRonald Reagan
Political offices
Preceded bySpiro Agnew
Vice President of the United States 1973–1974
Succeeded byNelson Rockefeller
Preceded byRichard Nixon
President of the United States 1974–1977
Succeeded byJimmy Carter
Diplomatic posts
Preceded byValéry Giscard d'Estaing
Chair of the Group of Seven 1976
Succeeded byJames Callaghan
Articles related to Gerald Ford
vtePresidents of the United StatesPresidents andpresidencies
George Washington (1789–1797)
John Adams (1797–1801)
Thomas Jefferson (1801–1809)
James Madison (1809–1817)
James Monroe (1817–1825)
John Quincy Adams (1825–1829)
Andrew Jackson (1829–1837)
Martin Van Buren (1837–1841)
William Henry Harrison (1841)
John Tyler (1841–1845)
James K. Polk (1845–1849)
Zachary Taylor (1849–1850)
Millard Fillmore (1850–1853)
Franklin Pierce (1853–1857)
James Buchanan (1857–1861)
Abraham Lincoln (1861–1865)
Andrew Johnson (1865–1869)
Ulysses S. Grant (1869–1877)
Rutherford B. Hayes (1877–1881)
James A. Garfield (1881)
Chester A. Arthur (1881–1885)
Grover Cleveland (1885–1889)
Benjamin Harrison (1889–1893)
Grover Cleveland (1893–1897)
William McKinley (1897–1901)
Theodore Roosevelt (1901–1909)
William Howard Taft (1909–1913)
Woodrow Wilson (1913–1921)
Warren G. Harding (1921–1923)
Calvin Coolidge (1923–1929)
Herbert Hoover (1929–1933)
Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933–1945)
Harry S. Truman (1945–1953)
Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953–1961)
John F. Kennedy (1961–1963)
Lyndon B. Johnson (1963–1969)
Richard Nixon (1969–1974)
Gerald Ford (1974–1977)
Jimmy Carter (1977–1981)
Ronald Reagan (1981–1989)
George H. W. Bush (1989–1993)
Bill Clinton (1993–2001)
George W. Bush (2001–2009)
Barack Obama (2009–2017)
Donald Trump (2017–2021)
Joe Biden (2021–2025)
Donald Trump (2025–present)
Presidencytimelines
Washington
J. Adams
McKinley
T. Roosevelt
Taft
Wilson
Harding
Coolidge
Hoover
F. D. Roosevelt
Truman
Eisenhower
Kennedy
L. B. Johnson
Nixon
Ford
Carter
Reagan
G. H. W. Bush
Clinton
G. W. Bush
Obama
Trump
Biden
Category
List
vteUnsuccessful major party candidates for President of the United States
Thomas Jefferson (1796)
John Adams (1800)
Charles C. Pinckney (1804, 1808)
DeWitt Clinton (1812)
Rufus King (1816)
Andrew Jackson (1824)
William H. Crawford (1824)
Henry Clay (1824, 1832, 1844)
John Quincy Adams (1828)
William Henry Harrison (1836)
Hugh Lawson White (1836)
Martin Van Buren (1840)
Lewis Cass (1848)
Winfield Scott (1852)
John C. Frémont (1856)
Stephen A. Douglas (1860)
George B. McClellan (1864)
Horatio Seymour (1868)
Horace Greeley (1872)
Samuel J. Tilden (1876)
Winfield Scott Hancock (1880)
James G. Blaine (1884)
Grover Cleveland (1888)
Benjamin Harrison (1892)
William J. Bryan (1896, 1900, 1908)
Alton B. Parker (1904)
William Howard Taft (1912)
Charles Evans Hughes (1916)
James M. Cox (1920)
John W. Davis (1924)
Al Smith (1928)
Herbert Hoover (1932)
Alf Landon (1936)
Wendell Willkie (1940)
Thomas E. Dewey (1944, 1948)
Adlai Stevenson (1952, 1956)
Richard Nixon (1960)
Barry Goldwater (1964)
Hubert Humphrey (1968)
George McGovern (1972)
Gerald Ford (1976)
Jimmy Carter (1980)
Walter Mondale (1984)
Michael Dukakis (1988)
George H. W. Bush (1992)
Bob Dole (1996)
Al Gore (2000)
John Kerry (2004)
John McCain (2008)
Mitt Romney (2012)
Hillary Clinton (2016)
Donald Trump (2020)
Kamala Harris (2024)
All presidential candidates
Presidents
Third-party candidates
vteRepublican Party
History
National Union Party
Third Party System
Fourth Party System
Fifth Party System
Sixth Party System
Presidentialtickets,nationalconventions,andpresidentialprimaries
1856 (Philadelphia): Frémont/Dayton
1860 (Chicago): Lincoln/Hamlin
1864 (Baltimore): Lincoln/Johnson
1868 (Chicago): Grant/Colfax
1872 (Philadelphia): Grant/Wilson
1876 (Cincinnati): Hayes/Wheeler
1880 (Chicago): Garfield/Arthur
1884 (Chicago): Blaine/Logan
1888 (Chicago): Harrison/Morton
1892 (Minneapolis): Harrison/Reid
1896 (Saint Louis): McKinley/Hobart
1900 (Philadelphia): McKinley/Roosevelt
1904 (Chicago): Roosevelt/Fairbanks
1908 (Chicago): Taft/Sherman
1912 (Chicago): Taft/Sherman/Butler
primaries
1916 (Chicago): Hughes/Fairbanks
primaries
1920 (Chicago): Harding/Coolidge
primaries
1924 (Cleveland): Coolidge/Dawes
primaries
1928 (Kansas City): Hoover/Curtis
primaries
1932 (Chicago): Hoover/Curtis
primaries
1936 (Cleveland): Landon/Knox
primaries
1940 (Philadelphia): Willkie/McNary
primaries
1944 (Chicago): Dewey/Bricker
primaries
1948 (Philadelphia): Dewey/Warren
primaries
1952 (Chicago): Eisenhower/Nixon
primaries
1956 (San Francisco): Eisenhower/Nixon
primaries
1960 (Chicago): Nixon/Lodge
primaries
1964 (San Francisco): Goldwater/Miller
primaries
1968 (Miami Beach): Nixon/Agnew
primaries
1972 (Miami Beach): Nixon/Agnew
primaries
1976 (Kansas City): Ford/Dole
primaries
1980 (Detroit): Reagan/G. H. W. Bush
primaries
1984 (Dallas): Reagan/G. H. W. Bush
primaries
1988 (New Orleans): G. H. W. Bush/Quayle
primaries
1992 (Houston): G. H. W. Bush/Quayle
primaries
1996 (San Diego): Dole/Kemp
primaries
2000 (Philadelphia): G. W. Bush/Cheney
primaries
2004 (New York): G. W. Bush/Cheney
primaries
2008 (St. Paul): McCain/Palin
primaries
2012 (Tampa): Romney/Ryan
primaries
2016 (Cleveland): Trump/Pence
primaries
2020 (Charlotte/other locations): Trump/Pence
primaries
2024 (Milwaukee): Trump/Vance
primaries
2028 (Houston)
Presidentialadministrations
Lincoln (1861–1865)
Johnson (1865–1868)
Grant (1869–1877)
Hayes (1877–1881)
Garfield (1881)
Arthur (1881–1885)
Harrison (1889–1893)
McKinley (1897–1901)
Roosevelt (1901–1909)
Taft (1909–1913)
Harding (1921–1923)
Coolidge (1923–1929)
Hoover (1929–1933)
Eisenhower (1953–1961)
Nixon (1969–1974)
Ford (1974–1977)
Reagan (1981–1989)
G. H. W. Bush (1989–1993)
G. W. Bush (2001–2009)
Trump (2017–2021; 2025–present)
U.S. SenateleadersandConferencechairs
J. P. Hale (1859–1862)
Anthony (1862–1884)
Sherman (1884–1885)
Edmunds (1885–1891)
Sherman (1891–1897)
Allison (1897–1908)
E. Hale (1908–1911)
Cullom (1911–1913)
Gallinger (1913–1918)
Lodge (1918–1924)
Curtis (1924–1929)
Watson (1929–1933)
McNary (1933–1940)
Austin (1940–1941)
McNary (1941–1944)
White (1944–1949)
Wherry (1949–1952)
Bridges (1952–1953)
Taft (1953)
Knowland (1953–1959)
Dirksen (1959–1969)
Scott (1969–1977)
Baker (1977–1979)
Stevens (1979–1980)
Baker (1980–1985)
Dole (1985–1996)
Lott (1996–2003)
Frist (2003–2007)
McConnell (2007–2025)
Thune (2025–present)
U.S. Houseleaders,Speakers,andConferencechairs
Pennington (1860–1861)
Grow (1861–1863)
Colfax (1863–1869)
Pomeroy (1869)
Blaine (1869–1875)
McCrary (1875–1877)
Hale (1877–1879)
Frye (1879–1881)
Keifer (1881–1883)
Cannon (1883–1889)
Reed (1889–1891)
T. J. Henderson (1891–1895)
Reed (1895–1899)
D. B. Henderson (1899–1903)
Cannon (1903–1911)
Mann (1911–1919)
Gillett (1919–1925)
Longworth (1925–1931)
Snell (1931–1939)
Martin (1939–1959)
Halleck (1959–1965)
Ford (1965–1973)
Rhodes (1973–1981)
Michel (1981–1995)
Gingrich (1995–1999)
Hastert (1999–2007)
Boehner (2007–2015)
Ryan (2015–2019)
McCarthy (2019–2023)
Johnson (2023–present)
RNCChairs
Morgan
Raymond
Ward
Claflin
Morgan
Chandler
Cameron
Jewell
Sabin
Jones
Quay
Clarkson
Campbell
Carter
Hanna
Payne
Cortelyou
New
Hitchcock
Hill
Rosewater
Hilles
Wilcox
Hays
Adams
Butler
Work
Huston
Fess
Sanders
Fletcher
Hamilton
Martin
Walsh
Spangler
Brownell
Reece
Scott
Gabrielson
Summerfield
Roberts
Hall
Alcorn
T. Morton
Miller
Burch
Bliss
R. Morton
Dole
Bush
Smith
Brock
Richards
Laxalt/Fahrenkopf
Fahrenkopf
Atwater
Yeutter
Bond
Barbour
Nicholson
Gilmore
Racicot
Gillespie
Mehlman
Martínez/Duncan
Duncan
Steele
Priebus
McDaniel
Whatley
Gruters
Chair elections
2009
2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2023
2024
Parties bystate andterritoryState
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Territory
American Samoa
District of Columbia
Guam
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
Virgin Islands
Affiliated
organizationsCongress
House Conference
Legislative Digest
Steering and Policy Committees
Senate Conference
Policy Committee
Factions
Freedom Caucus
Problem Solvers Caucus
Republican Governance Group
Republican Study Committee
Campaigncommittees
National Republican Congressional Committee
National Republican Redistricting Trust
National Republican Senatorial Committee
Republican Attorneys General Association
Republican Governors Association
Constituencygroups
College Republicans
Chairmen
Congressional Hispanic Conference
Log Cabin Republicans
National Black Republican Association
Republican Hindu Coalition
Republican Jewish Coalition
Republican Muslim Coalition
Republican National Hispanic Assembly
Republicans Abroad
Teen Age Republicans
Young Republicans
Republicans Overseas
Factionalgroups
Republican Main Street Partnership
Republican Majority for Choice
Republican Liberty Caucus
Republican National Coalition for Life
ConservAmerica
Liberty Caucus
Ripon Society
The Wish List
Related
Primaries
Debates
Bibliography
International Democracy Union
Three Legged Stool
Timeline of modern American conservatism
Trumpism
vteVice presidents of the United States
John Adams (1789–1797)
Thomas Jefferson (1797–1801)
Aaron Burr (1801–1805)
George Clinton (1805–1812)
Elbridge Gerry (1813–1814)
Daniel D. Tompkins (1817–1825)
John C. Calhoun (1825–1832)
Martin Van Buren (1833–1837)
Richard M. Johnson (1837–1841)
John Tyler (1841)
George M. Dallas (1845–1849)
Millard Fillmore (1849–1850)
William R. King (1853)
John C. Breckinridge (1857–1861)
Hannibal Hamlin (1861–1865)
Andrew Johnson (1865)
Schuyler Colfax (1869–1873)
Henry Wilson (1873–1875)
William A. Wheeler (1877–1881)
Chester A. Arthur (1881)
Thomas A. Hendricks (1885)
Levi P. Morton (1889–1893)
Adlai Stevenson (1893–1897)
Garret Hobart (1897–1899)
Theodore Roosevelt (1901)
Charles W. Fairbanks (1905–1909)
James S. Sherman (1909–1912)
Thomas R. Marshall (1913–1921)
Calvin Coolidge (1921–1923)
Charles G. Dawes (1925–1929)
Charles Curtis (1929–1933)
John N. Garner (1933–1941)
Henry A. Wallace (1941–1945)
Harry S. Truman (1945)
Alben W. Barkley (1949–1953)
Richard Nixon (1953–1961)
Lyndon B. Johnson (1961–1963)
Hubert Humphrey (1965–1969)
Spiro Agnew (1969–1973)
Gerald Ford (1973–1974)
Nelson Rockefeller (1974–1977)
Walter Mondale (1977–1981)
George H. W. Bush (1981–1989)
Dan Quayle (1989–1993)
Al Gore (1993–2001)
Dick Cheney
(2001–2009)
Joe Biden (2009–2017)
Mike Pence (2017–2021)
Kamala Harris (2021–2025)
JD Vance (2025–present)
Category
List
vteMinority leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives
Bailey
Richardson
Williams
Clark
Mann
Clark
Kitchin
Garrett
Garner
Snell
Martin
Rayburn
Martin
Rayburn
Martin
Halleck
Ford
Rhodes
Michel
Gephardt
Pelosi
Boehner
Pelosi
McCarthy
Jeffries
vteRepublican Party leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives
Payne
Mann
Mondell
Longworth
Tilson
Snell
Martin
Halleck
Martin
Halleck
Martin
Halleck
Ford
Rhodes
Michel
Armey
DeLay
Blunti
Boehner
Cantor
McCarthy
Scalise
(i) - interim
vteRepublican Conference chairs of the United States House of Representatives
Morrill
Schenck
Banks
Blair
Maynard
McCrary
Hale
Frye
Robeson
Cannon
Henderson
Grosvenor
Cannon
Hepburn
Currier
Greene
Towner
S. Anderson
Hawley
Luce
Lehlbach
Woodruff
Hope
Hoeven
Ford
Laird
J. Anderson
Devine
Kemp
D. Cheney
Lewis
Armey
Boehner
Watts
Pryce
Putnam
Pence
Hensarling
McMorris Rodgers
L. Cheney
Stefanik
McClain
vteMembers of the Warren Commission
Earl Warren (Chairman)
Hale Boggs
John Sherman Cooper
Allen Dulles
Gerald Ford
John J. McCloy
Richard Russell Jr.
vteCabinet of President Gerald Ford (1974–1977)CabinetVice President
None (1974)
Nelson Rockefeller (1974–1977)
Secretary of State
Henry Kissinger (1974–1977)
Secretary of the Treasury
William E. Simon (1974–1977)
Secretary of Defense
James R. Schlesinger (1974–1975)
Donald Rumsfeld (1975–1977)
Attorney General
William B. Saxbe (1974–1975)
Edward H. Levi (1975–1977)
Secretary of the Interior
Rogers Morton (1974–1975)
Stanley K. Hathaway (1975)
Thomas S. Kleppe (1975–1977)
Secretary of Agriculture
Earl Butz (1974–1976)
John A. Knebel (1976–1977)
Secretary of Commerce
Frederick B. Dent (1974–1975)
Rogers Morton (1975–1976)
Elliot Richardson (1976–1977)
Secretary of Labor
Peter J. Brennan (1974–1975)
John Thomas Dunlop (1975–1976)
William Usery Jr. (1976–1977)
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Caspar Weinberger (1974–1975)
F. David Mathews (1975–1977)
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
James Thomas Lynn (1974–1975)
Carla Anderson Hills (1975–1977)
Secretary of Transportation
Claude Brinegar (1974–1975)
William Thaddeus Coleman Jr. (1975–1977)
Cabinet-levelDirector of the Office of Management and Budget
Roy Ash (1974–1975)
James Thomas Lynn (1975–1977)
Trade Representative
Frederick B. Dent (1975–1977)
Ambassador to the United Nations
John A. Scali (1974–1975)
Daniel Patrick Moynihan (1975–1976)
William Scranton (1976–1977)
White House Chief of Staff
Donald Rumsfeld (1974–1975)
Dick Cheney (1975–1977)
Counselor to the President
Anne L. Armstrong (1974)
Dean Burch (1974)
Kenneth Rush (1974)
Robert T. Hartmann (1974–1977)
John Otho Marsh Jr. (1974–1977)
Rogers Morton (1976)
White House Counsel
Philip W. Buchen (1974–1977)
vteCabinet of President Richard Nixon (1969–1974)CabinetVice President
Spiro Agnew (1969–1973)
None (1973)
Gerald Ford (1973–1974)
Secretary of State
William P. Rogers (1969–1973)
Henry Kissinger (1973–1974)
Secretary of the Treasury
David M. Kennedy (1969–1971)
John Connally (1971–1972)
George Shultz (1972–1974)
William E. Simon (1974)
Secretary of Defense
Melvin Laird (1969–1973)
Elliot Richardson (1973)
James R. Schlesinger (1973–1974)
Attorney General
John N. Mitchell (1969–1972)
Richard Kleindienst (1972–1973)
Elliot Richardson (1973)
William B. Saxbe (1974)
Postmaster General
Winton M. Blount (1969–1971)
Secretary of the Interior
Wally Hickel (1969–1970)
Rogers Morton (1971–1974)
Secretary of Agriculture
Clifford M. Hardin (1969–1971)
Earl Butz (1971–1974)
Secretary of Commerce
Maurice Stans (1969–1972)
Peter G. Peterson (1972–1973)
Frederick B. Dent (1973–1974)
Secretary of Labor
George Shultz (1969–1970)
James Day Hodgson (1970–1973)
Peter J. Brennan (1973–1974)
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Robert Finch (1969–1970)
Elliot Richardson (1970–1973)
Caspar Weinberger (1973–1974)
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
George W. Romney (1969–1973)
James Thomas Lynn (1973–1974)
Secretary of Transportation
John A. Volpe (1969–1973)
Claude Brinegar (1973–1974)
Cabinet-levelDirector of the Bureau of the Budget
Robert P. Mayo (1969–1970)
Director of the Office of Management and Budget
George Shultz (1970–1972)
Caspar Weinberger (1972–1973)
Roy Ash (1973–1974)
Ambassador to the United Nations
Charles Yost (1969–1971)
George H. W. Bush (1971–1973)
John A. Scali (1973–1974)
Counselor to the President
Arthur F. Burns (1969)
Daniel Patrick Moynihan (1969–1970)
Bryce Harlow (1969–1970)
Robert Finch (1970–1972)
Donald Rumsfeld (1970–1971)
Anne L. Armstrong (1973–1974)
Dean Burch (1974)
Kenneth Rush (1974)
vteCold War
United States
Soviet Union
NATO
Warsaw Pact
ANZUS
METO
SEATO
NEATO
Rio Pact
Non-Aligned Movement
1940s
Morgenthau Plan
Jamaican political conflict
Dekemvriana
Guerrilla war in the Baltic states
Operation Priboi
Operation Jungle
Occupation of the Baltic states
Cursed soldiers
Operation Unthinkable
Gouzenko Affair
Division of Korea
Chinese Civil War
Chinese Communist Revolution
Indonesian National Revolution
Civil conflicts in Vietnam (1945–1949)
Operation Beleaguer
Operation Blacklist Forty
Iran crisis of 1946
Greek Civil War
Baruch Plan
Corfu Channel incident
Hukbalahap rebellion
Turkish Straits crisis
Restatement of Policy on Germany
First Indochina War
1947 Polish parliamentary election
Truman Doctrine
Asian Relations Conference
May 1947 crises
Partition of India
Indo-Pakistani war of 1947–1948
1947–1949 Palestine war
1947–1948 civil war in Mandatory Palestine
1948 Arab–Israeli War
1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight
Marshall Plan
Comecon
1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état
Incapacitation of the Allied Control Council
Al-Wathbah uprising
Tito–Stalin split
Berlin Blockade
Annexation of Hyderabad
Madiun Affair
Western betrayal
Iron Curtain
Eastern Bloc
Western Bloc
Malayan Emergency
March 1949 Syrian coup d'état
Operation Valuable
1950s
Bamboo curtain
McCarthyism
First Indochina War
Korean War
Arab Cold War (1952–1979)
1952 Egyptian revolution
Iraqi Intifada (1952)
Mau Mau rebellion
East German uprising of 1953
1953 Iranian coup d'état
Pact of Madrid
Bricker Amendment
1954 Syrian coup d'état
Petrov Affair
Domino theory
1954 Geneva Conference
1954 Guatemalan coup d'état
Capture of the Tuapse
First Taiwan Strait Crisis
Jebel Akhdar War
Algerian War
Kashmir Princess
Bandung Conference
Geneva Summit (1955)
Cyprus Emergency
"On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences"
1956 Poznań protests
Hungarian Revolution of 1956
Polish October
Suez Crisis
"We will bury you"
Operation Gladio
Syrian Crisis of 1957
Sputnik crisis
Ifni War
Iraqi 14 July Revolution
1958 Lebanon crisis
Second Taiwan Strait Crisis
1959 Mosul uprising
1959 Tibetan uprising
Kitchen Debate
Cuban Revolution
Consolidation of the Cuban Revolution
Sino-Soviet split
Night Frost Crisis
1960s
Congo Crisis
Laotian Civil War
Vietnam War
Simba rebellion
1960 U-2 incident
John F. Kennedy
Bay of Pigs Invasion
1960 Turkish coup d'état
Albanian–Soviet split
Iraqi–Kurdish conflict
First Iraqi–Kurdish War
Berlin Crisis of 1961
Berlin Wall
Annexation of Goa
Papua conflict
Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation
Sand War
Portuguese Colonial War
Angolan War of Independence
Guinea-Bissau War of Independence
Mozambican War of Independence
Cuban Missile Crisis
El Porteñazo
Sino-Indian War
Communist insurgency in Sarawak
Ramadan Revolution
Eritrean War of Independence
North Yemen civil war
1963 Syrian coup d'état
Assassination of John F. Kennedy
Lyndon B. Johnson
Aden Emergency
Cyprus crisis of 1963–1964
Shifta War
Mexican Dirty War
Tlatelolco massacre
Guatemalan Civil War
Colombian conflict
1964 Brazilian coup d'état
Dominican Civil War
Rhodesian Bush War
Indonesian mass killings of 1965–1966
Transition to the New Order (Indonesia)
ASEAN Declaration
1966 Syrian coup d'état
Cultural Revolution
Cambodian Civil War
Argentine Revolution
South African Border War
Korean DMZ Conflict
12-3 incident
Greek junta
1967 Hong Kong riots
Years of Lead (Italy)
Six-Day War
War of Attrition
Dhofar War
Al-Wadiah War
Nigerian Civil War
Protests of 1968
May 68
Prague Spring
USS Pueblo incident
1968 Polish political crisis
Communist insurgency in Malaysia
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
17 July Revolution
1968 Peruvian coup d'état
Revolutionary Government
1969 Sudanese coup d'état
1969 Libyan revolution
Goulash Communism
Sino-Soviet border conflict
New People's Army rebellion
Note Crisis
1970s
Détente
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
Black September
Alcora Exercise
Corrective Movement (Syria)
Western Sahara conflict
Communist insurgency in Thailand
1970 Polish protests
Koza riot
Realpolitik
Ping-pong diplomacy
1971 JVP insurrection
Corrective revolution (Egypt)
1971 Turkish military memorandum
1971 Sudanese coup d'état
1971 Bolivian coup d'état
Four Power Agreement on Berlin
Bangladesh Liberation War
1972 visit by Richard Nixon to China
North Yemen-South Yemen Border conflict of 1972
First Yemenite War
Munich massacre
1972–1975 Bangladesh insurgency
Eritrean Civil Wars
Paris Peace Accords
1973 Uruguayan coup d'état
1973 Afghan coup d'état
1973 Chilean coup d'état
Yom Kippur War
1973 oil crisis
Carnation Revolution
Ethiopian Civil War
Vietnam War
Spanish transition to democracy
Metapolitefsi
Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
Second Iraqi–Kurdish War
Turkish invasion of Cyprus
15 August 1975 Bangladeshi coup d'état
Siege of Dhaka (1975)
Sipahi-Janata revolution
Angolan Civil War
Indonesian invasion of East Timor
Cambodian genocide
June 1976 protests
Mozambican Civil War
Oromo conflict
Ogaden War
1978 Somali coup attempt
Western Sahara War
Lebanese Civil War
Sino-Albanian split
Third Indochina War
Cambodian–Vietnamese War
Cambodian conflict
Operation Condor
Dirty War (Argentina)
1976 Argentine coup d'état
Egyptian–Libyan War
German Autumn
Korean Air Lines Flight 902
Nicaraguan Revolution
Uganda–Tanzania War
NDF Rebellion
Chadian–Libyan War
Second Yemenite War
Grand Mosque seizure
Iranian revolution
Saur Revolution
Sino-Vietnamese War
New Jewel Movement
1979 Herat uprising
Seven Days to the River Rhine
Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union
1980s
Salvadoran Civil War
Soviet–Afghan War
Eritrean Civil Wars
1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts
Gera Demands
Peruvian Revolution
Gdańsk Agreement
Solidarity
1980 Turkish coup d'état
Ugandan Bush War
Gulf of Sidra incident
Martial law in Poland
Casamance conflict
Falklands War
1982 Ethiopian–Somali Border War
Ndogboyosoi War
United States invasion of Grenada
Able Archer 83
Star Wars
1985 Geneva Summit
Iran–Iraq War
Somali Rebellion
Reykjavík Summit
1986 Black Sea incident
South Yemen civil war
Toyota War
1987 Lieyu massacre
Operation Denver
1987–1989 JVP insurrection
Lord's Resistance Army insurgency
1988 Black Sea bumping incident
8888 Uprising
Solidarity (Soviet reaction)
Contras
Central American crisis
Operation RYAN
Korean Air Lines Flight 007
People Power Revolution
Glasnost
Perestroika
Bougainville conflict
First Nagorno-Karabakh War
Afghan Civil War
United States invasion of Panama
1988 Polish strikes
Polish Round Table Agreement
1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre
Revolutions of 1989
Fall of the Berlin Wall
Fall of the inner German border
Velvet Revolution
Romanian Revolution
Peaceful Revolution
1990s
Mongolian Revolution of 1990
Min Ping Yu No. 5540 incident
Gulf War
Min Ping Yu No. 5202
German reunification
Yemeni unification
Fall of communism in Albania
Breakup of Yugoslavia
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
1991 August Coup
Dissolution of Czechoslovakia
Frozen conflicts
Abkhazia
China-Taiwan
Korea
Kosovo
South Ossetia
Transnistria
Sino-Indian border dispute
North Borneo dispute
Foreign policy
Truman Doctrine
Containment
Eisenhower Doctrine
Domino theory
Hallstein Doctrine
Kennedy Doctrine
Peaceful coexistence
Ostpolitik
Johnson Doctrine
Brezhnev Doctrine
Nixon Doctrine
Ulbricht Doctrine
Carter Doctrine
Reagan Doctrine
Paasikivi–Kekkonen doctrine
Rollback
Kinmen Agreement
IdeologiesCapitalism
Liberalism
Chicago school
Conservatism
American conservatism
Keynesianism
Libertarianism
Monetarism
Neoclassical economics
Reaganomics
Supply-side economics
Democratic capitalism
Socialism
Communism
Marxism–Leninism
Castroism
Eurocommunism
Guevarism
Hoxhaism
Juche
Ho Chi Minh Thought
Maoism
Trotskyism
Stalinism
Titoism
Other
Imperialism
Anti-imperialism
Nationalism
Ultranationalism
Chauvinism
Ethnic nationalism
Racism
Zionism
Anti-Zionism
Fascism
Neo-Nazism
Islamism
Totalitarianism
Authoritarianism
Autocracy
Liberal democracy
Illiberal democracy
Guided democracy
Social democracy
Third-worldism
White supremacy
White nationalism
White separatism
Apartheid
Finlandization
Organizations
NATO
SEATO
METO
EEC
Warsaw Pact
Comecon
Non-Aligned Movement
NN States
ASEAN
SAARC
Safari Club
PropagandaPro-communist
Active measures
Izvestia
Neues Deutschland
Pravda
Radio Moscow
Rudé právo
Trybuna Ludu
TASS
Soviet Life
Pro-Western
Amerika
Crusade for Freedom
Paix et Liberté
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty
Red Scare
Voice of America
Technologicalcompetition
Arms race
Nuclear arms race
Space Race
Historians
Gar Alperovitz
Thomas A. Bailey
Michael Beschloss
Archie Brown
Warren H. Carroll
Adrian Cioroianu
John Costello
Michael Cox
Nicholas J. Cull
Norman Davies
Willem Drees
Robert D. English
Herbert Feis
Robert Hugh Ferrell
André Fontaine
Anneli Ute Gabanyi
John Lewis Gaddis
Lloyd Gardner
Timothy Garton Ash
Gabriel Gorodetsky
Fred Halliday
Jussi Hanhimäki
John Earl Haynes
Patrick J. Hearden
Tvrtko Jakovina
Tony Judt
Harvey Klehr
Gabriel Kolko
Walter LaFeber
Walter Laqueur
Melvyn P. Leffler
Geir Lundestad
Vojtech Mastny
Jack F. Matlock Jr.
Thomas J. McCormick
Timothy Naftali
Marius Oprea
David S. Painter
William B. Pickett
Ronald E. Powaski
Yakov M. Rabkin
M. E. Sarotte
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
Ellen Schrecker
Giles Scott-Smith
Shen Zhihua
Timothy Snyder
Athan Theoharis
Andrew Thorpe
Vladimir Tismăneanu
Patrick Vaughan
Alex von Tunzelmann
Odd Arne Westad
William Appleman Williams
Jonathan Reed Winkler
Rudolph Winnacker
Ken Young
Espionage andintelligence
List of Eastern Bloc agents in the United States
Soviet espionage in the United States
Russian espionage in the United States
American espionage in the Soviet Union and Russian Federation
CIA and the Cultural Cold War
CIA
MI5
MI6
United States involvement in regime change
Soviet involvement in regime change
MVD
KGB
Stasi
See also
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
Soviet Union–United States relations
Soviet Union–United States summits
Russia–NATO relations
War on terror
Brinkmanship
Pax Atomica
Second Cold War
Russian Revolution
Category
List of conflicts
Timeline
vteUnited States representatives from MichiganTerritory
Woodbridge
Sibley
Richard
Wing
Biddle
Wing
Lyon
G. Jones
At-large
Crary
J. Howard
Kelley
Staebler
1st district
McClelland
Buel
Penniman
D. Stuart
W. Howard
Cooper
W. Howard
Granger
Beaman
Waldron
Field
A. S. Williams
Newberry
Lord
Maybury
J. L. Chipman
Griffin
Corliss
Lucking
Denby
Doremus
Codd
Clancy
Sosnowski
Clancy
Sadowski
Tenerowicz
Sadowski
Machrowicz
Nedzi
Conyers
Stupak
Benishek
Bergman
2nd district
Lyon
J. S. Chipman
E. Bradley
C. Stuart
Sprague
C. Stuart
Noble
Waldron
Beaman
Upson
Stoughton
Waldron
Willits
Eldredge
Allen
Gorman
Spalding
H. Smith
Townsend
Wedemeyer
Beakes
Bacon
Beakes
Michener
Lehr
Michener
Meader
Vivian
Esch
Pursell
Hoekstra
Huizenga
Moolenaar
3rd district
Hunt
Bingham
J. Conger
Clark
Walbridge
Kellogg
Longyear
Blair
Willard
McGowan
Lacey
O'Donnell
Burrows
Milnes
A. Todd
Gardner
J. Smith
Frankhauser
J. Smith
A. B. Williams
Hooper
Kimball
Main
Shafer
Johansen
P. Todd
G. Brown
Wolpe
Henry
Ehlers
Amash
Meijer
Scholten
4th district
H. L. Stevens
Peck
Leach
Trowbridge
Kellogg
Ferry
Foster
Burrows
Potter
Keightley
Burrows
Yaple
Burrows
Thomas
Hamilton
Ketcham
Foulkes
Hoffman
Hutchinson
Stockman
Siljander
Upton
Camp
Moolenaar
Huizenga
5th district
Baldwin
Trowbridge
O. Conger
Foster
W. Williams
Stone
Webber
Houseman
Comstock
M. Ford
Belknap
M. Ford
Belknap
Richardson
W. Smith
Diekema
Sweet
Mapes
Jonkman
G. Ford
Vander Veen
Sawyer
Henry
Barcia
D. E. Kildee
D. T. Kildee
Walberg
6th district
Driggs
Strickland
Sutherland
Begole
Durand
Brewer
Spaulding
Winans
Brewer
Stout
Aitken
S. Smith
Kelley
Hudson
Person
Cady
Blackney
Transue
Blackney
Clardy
Hayworth
Chamberlain
Carr
Dunn
Carr
Upton
Dingell
7th district
O. Conger
Rich
Carleton
Whiting
Snover
Weeks
McMorran
Cramton
Wolcott
McIntosh
O'Hara
Mackie
Riegle
D. E. Kildee
N. Smith
Schwarz
Walberg
Schauer
Walberg
Slotkin
Barrett
8th district
N. Bradley
Ellsworth
Horr
Tarsney
Bliss
Youmans
Linton
Brucker
Fordney
Vincent
Hart
Crawford
Bentley
Harvey
Traxler
Carr
Chrysler
Stabenow
Rogers
M. Bishop
Slotkin
Kildee
McDonald Rivet
9th district
Hubbell
Cutcheon
H. Wheeler
Moon
R. Bishop
McLaughlin
Harry W. Musselwhite
Engel
Thompson
Griffin
Vander Jagt
D. E. Kildee
Knollenberg
Peters
S. Levin
A. Levin
McClain
10th district
Hatch
Fisher
F. Wheeler
Weadock
Crump
Aplin
Loud
Woodruff
Loud
Currie
Woodruff
Cederberg
Albosta
Schuette
Camp
Bonior
Miller
Mitchell
McClain
J. James
11th district
Breitung
Moffatt
Seymour
Stephenson
Avery
Mesick
Darragh
Dodds
Lindquist
Scott
Bohn
P. Brown
Luecke
F. Bradley
Potter
Knox
Clevenger
Ruppe
Davis
Knollenberg
McCotter
Curson
Bentivolio
Trott
H. Stevens
12th district
Stephenson
Shelden
Young
MacDonald
W. F. James
Hook
Bennett
Hook
Bennett
O'Hara
Bonior
Levin
J. Dingell Jr.
D. Dingell
Tlaib
13th district
Nichols
McLeod
Brennan
McLeod
O'Brien
McLeod
O'Brien
Coffin
O'Brien
Diggs
Crockett
Collins
W. Ford
Rivers
Kilpatrick
Clarke
Conyers
B. Jones
Tlaib
Thanedar
14th district
Weideman
Rabaut
Youngblood
Rabaut
Ryan
Nedzi
Hertel
Conyers
Peters
Lawrence
15th district
J. Dingell Sr.
J. Dingell Jr.
W. Ford
Collins
Kilpatrick
J. Dingell Jr.
16th district
Lesinski Sr.
Lesinski Jr.
J. Dingell Jr.
17th district
Dondero
Oakman
Griffiths
Brodhead
Levin
18th district
Dondero
Broomfield
Huber
Blanchard
Broomfield
19th district
Farnum
McDonald
Broomfield
vteIndividuals lain in state, in honor and in repose in the United StatesState funerals in the United StatesLain in stateUS Capitol rotunda
Clay (1852)
Lincoln (1865, funeral)
Stevens (1868)
Sumner (1874)
Wilson (1875)
Garfield (1881)
Logan (1886)
McKinley (1901)
L'Enfant (1909)
Dewey (1917)
Unknown Soldier for World War I (1921)
Harding (1923)
W. H. Taft (1930)
Pershing (1948)
R. A. Taft (1953)
Unknown Soldiers for World War II and the Korean War (1958)
Kennedy (1963, funeral)
MacArthur (1964)
H. Hoover (1964)
Eisenhower (1969)
Dirksen (1969)
J. E. Hoover (1972)
Johnson (1973)
Humphrey (1978)
Blassie / Unknown Soldier for the Vietnam War (1984)
Pepper (1989)
Reagan (2004, funeral)
Ford (2006–07, funeral)
Inouye (2012)
McCain (2018)
Bush (2018, funeral)
Lewis (2020)
Dole (2021)
Reid (2022)
Carter (2024–25, funeral)
National Statuary Hall
Cummings (2019)
Ginsburg (2020, funeral)
Young (2022)
House Chamber
Hooper (1875)
Herbert C. Hoover Building
Brown (1996)
Old Senate Chamber
Chase (1873)
Lain in honorUS Capitol rotunda
Chestnut and Gibson (1998)
Parks (2005)
Graham (2018)
Sicknick (2021)
Evans (2021)
Williams (2022)
Lain in reposeEast Room
Harrison (1841)
Taylor (1850)
Lincoln (1865, funeral)
McKinley (1901)
Harding (1923)
Roosevelt (1945)
Kennedy (1963, funeral)
Great Hall of theUS Supreme Court
Warren (1974)
Marshall (1993)
Burger (1995)
Brennan (1997)
Blackmun (1999)
Rehnquist (2005)
Scalia (2016)
Stevens (2019)
Ginsburg (2020, funeral)
O'Connor (2023)
Senate Chamber
Byrd (2010)
Lautenberg (2013)
Bold: Presidents and chief justices
vteHistory of MichiganTimeline
Glaciation
Paleo-Indian
Archaic
Woodland
Algonquian
French
British
Territory
State
Native
Council of Three Fires
Kickapoo
Mascouten
Menominee
Meskwaki
Miami
Ojibwe (Chippewa)
Odawa (Ottawa)
Potawatomi
Sac (Sauk)
Colonial
Fur Trade
Coureurs des Bois
Voyageurs
Iroquois Wars
New France
Detroit
Fox Wars
Fort Michilimackinac
Seven Years' War
Peace of Paris
Pontiac's Rebellion
Royal Proclamation
Indian Reserve
Quebec Act
Revolutionary War
Treaty of Paris
United StatesMilitary
Jay Treaty
Treaty of Detroit
Treaty of Saginaw
Treaty of Brownstown
Treaty of Fort Meigs
Treaty of St. Mary's
1821 Treaty of Chicago
1833 Treaty of Chicago
Toledo War
Battle of Windsor
Treaty of Fond du Lac
Treaty of La Pointe
Civil War
Industry
Northwest Territory
Chicago Road
Clinton-Kalamazoo Canal
Auto Makers
River Rouge Plant
Willow Run
Ambassador Bridge
Detroit–Windsor Tunnel
Flint Sit-Down Strike
Mackinac Bridge
Politics
Lewis Cass
Gerald Ford
vte1932 Michigan Wolverines football—national champions
Chuck Bernard
William F. Borgmann
Herman Everhardus
Stanley Fay
Gerald Ford
John Kowalik
Harry Newman
Russell D. Oliver
Ted Petoskey
John Regeczi
Willis Ward
Ivy Williamson
Whitey Wistert
Head coach: Harry Kipke
Assistant coaches: Jack Blott
Franklin Cappon
Ray Courtright
Cliff Keen
Bennie Oosterbaan
Wally Weber
vte1933 Michigan Wolverines football—national champions
Thomas Austin
Chuck Bernard
William F. Borgmann
Tony Dauksza
Herman Everhardus
Stanley Fay
Gerald Ford
John Heston
Willard Hildebrand
John Kowalik
Russell D. Oliver
Ted Petoskey
John Regeczi
Bill Renner
Carl Savage
Estel Tessmer
Willis Ward
Louis Westover
Whitey Wistert
Head coach: Harry Kipke
Assistant coaches: Jack Blott
Franklin Cappon
Ray Courtright
Cliff Keen
Bennie Oosterbaan
Wally Weber
vte(← 1972)
1976 United States presidential election
(1980 →)Democratic Party
Convention
Primaries
Candidates
Nominee: Jimmy Carter
campaign
VP nominee: Walter Mondale
Other candidates: Birch Bayh
Lloyd Bentsen
Jerry Brown
Robert Byrd
Hugh Carey
Frank Church
Fred R. Harris
Hubert Humphrey
Henry M. Jackson
Leon Jaworski
Barbara Jordan
Eugene McCarthy
Ellen McCormack
Walter Mondale
Jennings Randolph
Terry Sanford
Milton Shapp
campaign
Sargent Shriver
Adlai Stevenson III
Mo Udall
George Wallace
Republican Party
Convention
Primaries
Candidates
Incumbent nominee: Gerald Ford
campaign
VP nominee: Bob Dole
Other candidates: James L. Buckley
Ronald Reagan
campaign
positions
Harold Stassen
Third-party and independent candidatesAmerican Party
Nominee: Thomas J. Anderson
American Independent Party
Nominee: Lester Maddox
Communist Party
Nominee: Gus Hall
VP nominee: Jarvis Tyner
Libertarian Party
Nominee: Roger MacBride
VP nominee: David Bergland
People's Party
Nominee: Margaret Wright
VP nominee: Benjamin Spock
Prohibition Party
Nominee: Ben Bubar
VP nominee: Earl Dodge
Socialist Workers Party
Nominee: Peter Camejo
VP nominee: Willie Mae Reid
U.S. Labor Party
Nominee: Lyndon LaRouche
Other 1976 elections: House
Senate
Gubernatorial
vteTheodore Roosevelt Award winners
1967: Eisenhower
1968: Saltonstall
1969: White
1970: Hovde
1971: Kraft Jr.
1972: Holland
1973: Omar Bradley
1974: Owens
1975: Ford
1976: Hamilton
1977: Tom Bradley
1978: Zornow
1979: Chandler
1980: Cooley
1981: Linkletter
1982: Cosby
1983: Palmer
1984: Lawrence
1985: Fleming
1986: Bush
1987: Zable
1988: Not presented
1989: Ebert
1990: Reagan
1991: Gibson
1992: Kemp
1993: Alexander
1994: Johnson
1995: Mathias
1996: Wooden
1997: Payne
1998: Dole
1999: Richardson
2000: Staubach
2001: Cohen
2002: Shriver
2003: de Varona
2004: Page
2005: Ride
2006: Kraft
2007: Tagliabue
2008: Glenn
2009: Albright
2010: Mitchell
2011: Dunwoody
2012: Allen
2013: Dungy
2014: Mills
2015: Jackson
2016: Ueberroth
2017: Brooke-Marciniak
2018: Wilmore
2019: Caslen
2020: Delaney
2021: McLendon
2022: Boudreaux
2023: Shields
2024: Catena
2025: Sloan Green
vteNational Football Foundation Gold Medal winners
1958: Dwight D. Eisenhower
1959: Douglas MacArthur
1960: Herbert Hoover & Amos Alonzo Stagg
1961: John F. Kennedy
1962: Byron "Whizzer" White
1963: Roger Blough
1964: Donold B. Lourie
1965: Juan T. Trippe
1966: Earl H. "Red" Blaik
1967: Frederick L. Hovde
1968: Chester J. LaRoche
1969: Richard Nixon
1970: Thomas J. Hamilton
1971: Ronald Reagan
1972: Gerald Ford
1973: John Wayne
1974: Gerald B. Zornow
1975: David Packard
1976: Edgar B. Speer
1977: Louis H. Wilson
1978: Vincent dePaul Draddy
1979: William P. Lawrence
1980: Walter J. Zable
1981: Justin W. Dart
1982: Silver Anniversary Awards (NCAA) - All Honored Jim Brown, Willie Davis,
Jack Kemp, Ron Kramer, Jim Swink
1983: Jack Kemp
1984: John F. McGillicuddy
1985: William I. Spencer
1986: William H. Morton
1987: Charles R. Meyer
1988: Clinton E. Frank
1989: Paul Brown
1990: Thomas H. Moorer
1991: George H. W. Bush
1992: Donald R. Keough
1993: Norman Schwarzkopf
1994: Thomas S. Murphy
1995: Harold Alfond
1996: Gene Corrigan
1997: Jackie Robinson
1998: John H. McConnell
1999: Keith Jackson
2000: Fred M. Kirby II
2001: Billy Joe "Red" McCombs
2002: George Steinbrenner
2003: Tommy Franks
2004: William V. Campbell
2005: Jon F. Hanson
2006: Joe Paterno & Bobby Bowden
2007: Pete Dawkins & Roger Staubach
2008: John Glenn
2009: Phil Knight & Bill Bowerman
2010: Bill Cosby
2011: Robert Gates
2012: Roscoe Brown
2013: National Football League & Roger Goodell
2014: Tom Catena & George Weiss
2015: Condoleezza Rice
2016: Archie Manning
2017: None awarded
2018: Aaron Feis & Jason Seaman
2019: Mark Harmon
vteMichigan's delegation(s) to the 81st–93rd United States Congress (ordered by seniority)
81st
Senate: ▌A. Vandenberg (R) · ▌H. Ferguson (R)
House:
▌E. Michener (R)
▌R. Woodruff (R)
▌J. Wolcott (R)
▌J. Dingell Sr. (D)
▌G. Dondero (R)
▌J. Lesinski Sr. (D)
▌G. Sadowski (D)
▌W. Blackney (R)
▌F. Crawford (R)
▌A. Engel (R)
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌G. O'Brien (D)
▌P. Shafer (R)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌C. Potter (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
82nd
Senate:
▌A. Vandenberg (R)
▌H. Ferguson (R)
▌B. Moody (D)
▌C. Potter (R)
House:
▌R. Woodruff (R)
▌J. Wolcott (R)
▌J. Dingell Sr. (D)
▌G. Dondero (R)
▌W. Blackney (R)
▌F. Crawford (R)
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌G. O'Brien (D)
▌P. Shafer (R)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌C. Potter (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌T. Machrowicz (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌R. Thompson (R)
83rd
Senate: ▌H. Ferguson (R) · ▌C. Potter (R)
House:
▌J. Wolcott (R)
▌J. Dingell Sr. (D)
▌G. Dondero (R)
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌G. O'Brien (D)
▌P. Shafer (R)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌T. Machrowicz (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌R. Thompson (R)
▌A. Bentley (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌V. Knox (R)
▌K. Clardy (R)
▌C. Oakman (R)
84th
Senate: ▌C. Potter (R) · ▌P. McNamara (D)
House:
▌J. Wolcott (R)
▌J. Dingell Sr. (D)
▌G. Dondero (R)
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌T. Machrowicz (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌R. Thompson (R)
▌A. Bentley (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌V. Knox (R)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌A. Johansen (R)
▌D. Hayworth (D)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
85th
Senate: ▌C. Potter (R) · ▌P. McNamara (D)
House:
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌T. Machrowicz (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌A. Bentley (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌V. Knox (R)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌A. Johansen (R)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌R. Griffin (R)
▌R. McIntosh (R)
86th
Senate: ▌P. McNamara (D) · ▌P. Hart (D)
House:
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌T. Machrowicz (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌A. Bentley (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌V. Knox (R)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌A. Johansen (R)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌R. Griffin (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
87th
Senate: ▌P. McNamara (D) · ▌P. Hart (D)
House:
▌C. Hoffman (R)
▌L. Rabaut (D)
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌T. Machrowicz (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌V. Knox (R)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌A. Johansen (R)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌R. Griffin (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌H. Ryan (D)
88th
Senate: ▌P. McNamara (D) · ▌P. Hart (D)
House:
▌J. Bennett (R)
▌G. Ford (R)
▌J. Lesinski Jr. (D)
▌G. Meader (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌V. Knox (R)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌A. Johansen (R)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌R. Griffin (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌H. Ryan (D)
▌J. E. Hutchinson (R)
▌N. Staebler (D)
89th
Senate:
▌P. McNamara (D)
▌P. Hart (D)
▌R. Griffin (R)
House:
▌G. Ford (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌R. Griffin (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌J. E. Hutchinson (R)
▌J. Conyers (D)
▌W. Ford (D)
▌R. Clevenger (D)
▌B. Farnum (D)
▌J. Mackie (D)
▌P. Todd (D)
▌W. Vivian (D)
▌G. Vander Jagt (R)
90th
Senate: ▌P. Hart (D) · ▌R. Griffin (R)
House:
▌G. Ford (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌J. E. Hutchinson (R)
▌J. Conyers (D)
▌W. Ford (D)
▌G. Vander Jagt (R)
▌G. Brown (R)
▌M. Esch (R)
▌J. McDonald (R)
▌D. Riegle (R)
▌P. Ruppe (R)
91st
Senate: ▌P. Hart (D) · ▌R. Griffin (R)
House:
▌G. Ford (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌J. E. Hutchinson (R)
▌J. Conyers (D)
▌W. Ford (D)
▌G. Vander Jagt (R)
▌G. Brown (R)
▌M. Esch (R)
▌J. McDonald (R)
▌D. Riegle (R)
▌P. Ruppe (R)
92nd
Senate: ▌P. Hart (D) · ▌R. Griffin (R)
House:
▌G. Ford (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌J. E. Hutchinson (R)
▌J. Conyers (D)
▌W. Ford (D)
▌G. Vander Jagt (R)
▌G. Brown (R)
▌M. Esch (R)
▌J. McDonald (R)
▌D. Riegle (R)
▌P. Ruppe (R)
93rd
Senate: ▌P. Hart (D) · ▌R. Griffin (R)
House:
▌G. Ford (R)
▌E. A. Cederberg (R)
▌J. Dingell Jr. (D)
▌M. Griffiths (D)
▌C. Diggs (D)
▌W. Broomfield (R)
▌C. Chamberlain (R)
▌J. O'Hara (D)
▌R. J. Harvey (R)
▌L. Nedzi (D)
▌J. E. Hutchinson (R)
▌J. Conyers (D)
▌W. Ford (D)
▌G. Vander Jagt (R)
▌G. Brown (R)
▌M. Esch (R)
▌D. Riegle (R)
▌P. Ruppe (R)
▌R. Huber (R)
▌R. Vander Veen (D)
▌J. B. Traxler (D)
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFGNDFASTWorldCatNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataJapanItalyAustraliaCzech RepublicSpainNetherlandsNorwayLatviaCroatiaGreeceKoreaSwedenPolandIsraelCataloniaBelgiumAcademicsCiNiiArtistsMusicBrainzPeopleUS CongressTroveDeutsche BiographieDDBOtherIdRefNARASNACYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gerald_Ford&oldid=1312773100"
Categories: Gerald Ford1913 births2006 deaths20th-century American Episcopalians20th-century American naval officers20th-century American sportsmen20th-century members of the United States House of Representatives20th-century presidents of the United States20th-century vice presidents of the United States21st-century American EpiscopaliansAmerica First Committee membersAmerican anti-communistsAmerican adopteesAmerican athlete-politiciansAmerican football centersAmerican people of English descentAmerican people of Irish descentCalifornia RepublicansCandidates in the 1976 United States presidential electionCentrism in the United StatesCongressional Gold Medal recipientsDeaths from arteriosclerosisEast Grand Rapids, MichiganEpiscopalians from MichiganFamily of Gerald FordMembers of the Sons of the American RevolutionMembers of the Warren CommissionMichigan lawyersMichigan Wolverines football playersMilitary personnel from MichiganMilitary personnel from Omaha, NebraskaMinority leaders of the United States House of RepresentativesNixon administration cabinet membersPeople from Kent County, MichiganPeople from Rancho Mirage, CaliforniaPeople of the Cold WarPlayers of American football from Grand Rapids, MichiganPoliticians from Grand Rapids, MichiganPoliticians from Omaha, NebraskaPresidential Medal of Freedom recipientsPresidents of the United StatesPresidents of the United States who were FreemasonsRepublican Party (United States) presidential nomineesRepublican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from MichiganRepublican Party presidents of the United StatesRepublican Party vice presidents of the United StatesUnited States government officials of the Vietnam WarUnited States Navy personnel of World War IIUniversity of Michigan Law School alumniVice presidents of the United StatesYale Bulldogs football coachesYale Law School alumniHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1: unfit URLCS1 French-language sources (fr)All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from June 2022Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1 uses Japanese-language script (ja)CS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataWikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living peopleUse American English from September 2024All Wikipedia articles written in American EnglishUse mdy dates from January 2025Articles with hAudio microformatsPages using embedded infobox templates with the title parameterAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2025CS1 maint: location missing publisherPages using Sister project links with wikidata mismatchPeople appearing on C-SPANArticles with Internet Archive linksArticles with LibriVox linksArticles with Project Gutenberg links
This page was last edited on 22 September 2025, at 14:48 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Gerald Ford
142 languages
Add topic