What I Learned From Going Shopping With Tesla Bull Dan Ives
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
What I learned from a shopping trip with Dan Ives, Wall Street's biggest Tesla bull and the funkiest dresser on cable news
By
Alice Tecotzky
Dan Ives and I went shopping together on a recent Friday.
Alice Tecotzky
2025-09-20T09:11:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I went shopping with Dan Ives, the tech bull, outspoken Tesla supporter, and fashion icon.
Ives said clothing has unintentionally become a part of his brand.
Between looking at tie-dye and neon sweatshirts, I saw how Ives' style is mirrored in his stock calls.
When I saw a man walking down Prince Street in canary yellow pants, a bright blue Aviator Nation sweatshirt, custom sneakers, and a hat that said "GOAT," I knew my wait was over.
I was meeting up with Dan Ives, who isn't just a well-known tech analyst and major Tesla bull, but also something of a fashion icon. CNBC is used to guys in Brooks Brothers, but when Ives is on, it's Lilly Pulitzer blazers and lots of hot pink. During our SoHo shopping excursion, Ives didn't look twice at anything in a neutral tone. My white T-shirt, medium-wash vintage jeans, and simple jewelry quickly started to feel like a bad choice.
Ives showed up in Aviator Nation.
Alice Tecotzky
He wore a "GOAT" hat, carried another hat, and then proceeded to buy yet another hat.
Alice Tecotzky
Ives ran his hands through button-downs in Faherty, the first store we went to, while explaining that he's dressed "super different and funky" since he was a kid in Long Island. He eventually landed on a $58 powder blue hat that said "SOHO SURF," even though he was already wearing a hat and holding another one from where he'd gone to lunch. We walked slowly, Ives swinging the paper shopping bag and occasionally checking stocks or texts on his phone.
Ives said he got this hat because of the color.
Alice Tecotzky
Ives told me he tends to wear Vuori or Lululemon at home, and that Aviator Nation is a go-to, but he didn't take me to any of those places. Instead, he led us farther downtown to Snow Milk, where he recently launched a fashion line. Maybe I shouldn't have been surprised that our afternoon turned into something of a business opportunity. Ives told me his sense of style is authentic, but it's also helped boost his brand, especially on social media."It's definitely played a role in the global success, because of the way that I dress," he told me. "Even people who don't know my stock calls, they know me as the person who wears the funky shirts on CNBC."The brand ties go beyond recognition online and on the street.
Ives is as bullish on tech stocks as he is on clothing. In addition to Tesla, he's one of Wall Street's biggest optimists when it comes to mega-cap titans like Apple, Microsoft, Nvidia, and Palantir. Any sell-off in these names is usually followed by a research note from Ives imploring investors to buy the dip.But his most outspoken moments involve the EV maker. You might remember when Elon Musk told Ives to "shut up" earlier this year, after the Wedbush Securities analyst said Tesla's board needed to have "oversight on political endeavors." It was out of character for Ives, who usually gives Tesla an "outperform" rating. (He told me thinks Musk has "pivoted very nicely" since.)
We looked over baby pink, neon green, and tie-dye sweatshirts.
Alice Tecotzky
"The way that I cover tech stocks goes to the beat of a different drum," Ives said of his decadeslong career. "I don't worry about others, because maybe it's an unconventional way that I look at names, and I dress similar to how I cover tech."
Ives thinks people accept his clothing partly because he covers tech companies, not banks. Finance, he said, is way more buttoned up, though he thinks Wall Street is slowly becoming a little bit more casual. Men on Wall Street who are scared to dress "different and funky" will sometimes ask him for advice.
Ives opted for the blazer-over-sweatshirt look.
Alice Tecotzky
As much as bringing me to Snow Bird might have been a good business move — he was careful to point out his shirt hanging on the wall — it was also a chance for me to see Ives in his element. Jamie, a Snow Bird employee who worked on the brand collaboration, had picked out blazers to try on, and Ives reached for a New York-themed gray number. When Jamie started to say it might not fit over his sweatshirt, Ives, very politely, set him straight."That's part of the look," he said. Ives ran his fingers over baby pink and tie-dye sweatshirts. He tossed around the words, "Oh, that's so cool," about piece after piece. My white T-shirt and I slowly faded into the background.
I tried asking Ives about what tech stocks he finds most exciting just as Jamie handed him mint green and lilac hats, but I'm not sure he heard me."Dude, that thing is sick!" he said instead.
Recommended video
Tesla
Shopping
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account