What Nvidia's stunning $5 billion Intel bet means for enterprise AI and next-gen laptops | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
What Nvidia's stunning $5 billion Intel bet means for enterprise AI and next-gen laptops
Nvidia will expand the reach of its AI chips into enterprise and create x86 laptops 'the world's never seen before.'
Written by
Tiernan Ray, Senior Contributing WriterSenior Contributing Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 12:30 p.m. PT
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang has not yet been able to replicate his success in cloud AI data centers in the enterprise, where Intel's x86 dominates. ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/Contributor/AFP via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysIntel's x86 technology helps Nvidia in enterprise AI.Custom chips for laptops will integrate both companies' technology.Nvidia declined to say if it ever plans to use Intel's factories.Struggling chip maker Intel received a significant lifeline on Thursday from longtime rival Nvidia. The AI chip giant announced it would make a $5 billion investment in Intel and partner to develop chips based on Intel's x86 microprocessor standard. The move is seen as a way for Nvidia to broaden its lead with artificial intelligence by reaching more enterprises that rely on x86 technology to run their IT systems. Also: Deploying agentic AI? You'll probably do business with these 3 companiesIntel stock had been up 24% this year through Wednesday's close, but the announcement drove its shares up by another 23% in Thursday afternoon trading. During a conference call Thursday afternoon to discuss the deal, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said Nvidia plans to be a "major customer" for Intel's Xeon line of server CPUs."I think it's safe to say that the partnership that we're entering into is going to address some $25-50 billion of annual opportunity," said Huang.To date, Nvidia has built its own microprocessors, the Grace CPU, on technology licensed from ARM Holdings, which develops intellectual property used by just about every chip maker in the world. Also: Intel's new CEO vows to run chipmaker 'as a startup, on day one'Most of the world's computing can be divided neatly into devices that run some kind of ARM CPU "core," such as Nvidia's Grace chip or Apple's "A-series" silicon for the iPhone, and devices built around Intel's x86, including PCs and servers from equipment makers who buy Intel and AMD chips.Did Nvidia sour on ARM?Some chip-industry observers suggest that Nvidia has soured on the relationship with ARM because ARM, majority-owned by Japanese conglomerate SoftBank Group, has indicated it intends to build its own AI chips, which could compete with Nvidia's GPU franchise. More immediately, Nvidia's enormous success selling AI chips into the cloud data centers of Amazon, Oracle, and other giants has yet to translate into a large volume of sales into corporate data centers, where ARM-based chips have never made much headway. "For the x86 ecosystem, it's really unavailable except with server CPUs over PCI Express," said Huang regarding AI computers such as the NVLink-72, Nvidia's biggest design for a data center computer. "The first opportunity is that we can now, with Intel x86 CPU, integrate it directly into NVLink ecosystem and create these rack-scale AI supercomputers."Also: Nvidia plans to make DeepSeek's AI 30 times faster - CEO Huang explains howIn addition to data center machines, Huang said an integrated CPU-GPU part from Nvidia and Intel will enable laptop computers never before seen.Custom chips for laptops
"The second thing is there's 150 million laptops sold per year, and Nvidia's market is largely targeted squarely at gaming and workstation markets where discrete GPUs are used," he said. "We're very successful there, we continue to grow there, and we're going to continue to grow there. There's an entire segment of the market where the CPU and the GPU are integrated, and it's integrated for form factor reasons, maybe it's for cost reasons, maybe it's for battery life reasons, all kinds of different reasons. That segment has been largely unaddressed by Nvidia today."Intel and Nvidia, continued Huang, are creating "an SoC that fuses two processors. It fuses the CPU and Nvidia's GPU, RTX GPU, using NVLink. It fuses these two dies into one essentially virtual giant SoC, and that would become essentially a new class of integrated graphics laptops that the world's never seen before."
Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan has promised to turn around years of flagging sales with a wholesale transformation of the company. Bloomberg/Contributor/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesHuang deflected questions about whether Nvidia would become a customer of Intel's chip foundry -- one of the world's largest factories, but mostly dedicated to making Intel's own chips. "We've always evaluated Intel's foundry technology, and we're going to continue to do that," said Huang.Intel's sales have been in steep decline over several years as its own GPU chips failed to compete effectively with Nvidia, thereby missing the AI wave. Intel has also ceded market share for years to AMD, which has become a more prominent vendor of x86 CPUs to accompany Nvidia GPUs in AI computers.Also: I built a business plan with ChatGPT and it turned into a cautionary taleIntel CEO Lip-Bu Tan came on board in March, promising a major restructuring to restore Intel to its original profile as a fast-moving startup company. Tan replaced Pat Gelsinger, who media reports say was ousted last year after the Intel board of directors turned sour on his efforts to turn the company around. Historic collaboration In Thursday's briefing with Huang, Tan heaped praise on the Nvidia chief, whom he has known for over 30 years. "I have to salute him," said Tan of Huang. "He's done a fabulous job building that AI platform, driving the whole new market opportunity. I'm so excited to be able to work together with Jensen to build a new era. "This is a historic collaboration between the two companies," Tan added, "and I think this is a very big, important milestone. We are proud that Nvidia is an investor in Intel, and thank you for supporting us and trusting us."Last month, the US government took a 10% stake in Intel, an unprecedented move for government involvement in a for-profit corporation. Also: For AI agents, bite-size 'small language models' could make more senseNvidia's Huang said the administration of US president Donald Trump had "no involvement" in its investment in Intel. He added that US commerce secretary Howard Lutnick was "very excited" about the investment. At Wednesday's closing price, Intel was valued at $116 billion, making Nvidia's $5 billion investment worth 4% of the company.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
You can get Nvidia's CUDA on three popular enterprise Linux distros now - why it matters
DeepSeek reports shockingly low training costs for R1 in new paper
I tested several AIO computers in 2025, and these are the best for your office setup
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use