EPA Seeks Information to Safeguard a Critical Aviation Fire Suppression Agent from Needless Destruction | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
News Releases
EPA Seeks Information to Safeguard a Critical Aviation Fire Suppression Agent from Needless Destruction
September 23, 2025
Contact Information
EPA Press Office
(press@epa.gov)
WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) acted under its Clean Air Act (CAA) statutory authority to safeguard the long-term availability of the chemical Halon-1301 that is a critical fire suppression agent for commercial aviation, defense, and energy. Without it, critical infrastructure and civilian safety is at risk. EPA is issuing CAA 114 information requests to three companies—the American Carbon Registry, Wesco, and Tradewater—seeking to gather information about projects involving the destruction of Halon-1301 in exchange for carbon offset credits.“EPA is deeply concerned that companies are destroying critical lifesaving fire suppression products for carbon credits. Doing so not only deprives our country of this critical chemical, needlessly putting public safety at risk, but could also make the United States dependent on other countries like China,” said EPA Assistant Administrator Aaron Szabo. “This is yet another example of companies prioritizing short term financial gains over real, lifesaving products.”Halon-1301 remains indispensable to protecting public safety and human health because of its unmatched ability to extinguish fires quickly in confined spaces without leaving corrosive or harmful residues. Halons are class I ozone-depleting substances regulated under CAA Title VI, and new production of the chemical was banned under the Montreal Protocol in 1994. However, America’s recycling industry has successfully managed existing stocks for more than three decades, and EPA has worked closely with the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of War, and others to ensure safe and reliable supplies of recycled halons for the civil aviation industry and other critical applications.This careful stewardship and management is under threat due to entities attempting to destroy perfectly usable halon in exchange for carbon offset credits, undermining the United States’ long-term availability of this strategic chemical. The latest example came in July 2025, when an entity attempted to destroy 30,000 pounds of the United States’ Halon-1301 supply in France in exchange for these credits. After receiving information that the Halon-1301 could be reclaimed, EPA’s Office of Air and Radiation stepped in to prevent the destruction.If America’s reclaimed and recycled stocks are needlessly destroyed, the United States could be forced to secure Halon-1301 from China or one of the other few countries that still produce Halon-1301. EPA’s action makes clear that the agency will not allow short-term financial incentives in carbon offset markets to jeopardize the United States’ long-term safety and security. Simultaneously, EPA is exploring other avenues to both safeguard the supply and find suitable alternatives.The American Carbon Registry, Wesco, and Tradewater have 21 days following the receipt of EPA’s letters to respond to the agency’s mandatory request. To view the letters, please visit EPA’s Halons Program website.BackgroundCAA Section 114(a) authorizes the Administrator of the EPA to require any person whom the Administrator believes may have information necessary for the purposes set forth in Section 114(a), or who is subject to any requirement of the CAA, to provide such information as the Administrator may reasonably require for the purpose of carrying out any provision of the CAA.
Related Links
Headquarters | Air and Radiation (OAR)
Read other EPA News Releases about Air and Radiation
Read other EPA News Releases about Energy
Read other EPA News Releases about Administrator
Read other EPA News Releases about Pesticides and Toxic Chemicals
Read other EPA News Releases about Partnerships and Stewardship
Read other EPA News Releases about Emergency Response
Contact Us about News Releases
Contact Us about News Releases to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on September 23, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.