Proton VPN Review 2025: Power User Privacy Without Sacrificing Casual Use - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
Proton VPN Review 2025: Power User Privacy Without Sacrificing Casual Use
While Proton VPN offers the best free VPN plan on the market, its premium tier holds its own with the top of the class.
Article updated on September 5, 2025 at 10:33 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Moe Long
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Moe Long Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film. Expertise Apps | Operating systems | Software
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
8.4/ 10
SCORE Proton VPN
Buy at ProtonVPN
Latest tests
No leaks detected, 16% speed loss in 2025 tests
Network
12,000-plus servers in 117 countries
Jurisdiction
Switzerland
Price
$10 a month, $60 for the first year or $108 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $80 per year)
Score Breakdown Security
9/10Usability
8/10Value
7/10Speed
8/10Privacy
8/10Features
9/10
Pros
Excellent privacy and transparency
Blazing-fast speeds
Exceptional for streaming
Generous global server network
Open-source apps
Linux GUI app
10 simultaneous connections
The best free plan on the market
Cons
No 24/7 live chat yet
App design could be more user-friendly
Confusing MacOS kill switch design
Table of Contents
Proton VPN Review 2025: Power User Privacy Without Sacrificing Casual Use
Proton VPN speed: Lightning-quick
Cost: Your money goes a long way
Proton VPN apps are pretty refined but could be better for beginners
Privacy and transparency: Among the best in the game, with one MacOS wrinkle
Proton VPN is excellent for privacy-conscious people and streaming junkies alike
Proton VPN is the rare exception to the rule that free VPNs are underwhelming at best. Its free plan -- while admittedly limited in server numbers and simultaneous connections -- doesn’t restrict your monthly usage, sell your data or bombard you with ads, making it hands-down the best free VPN available. But if you’re willing to shell out for the company’s paid plan, you’ll enjoy an overall excellent VPN that balances serious privacy with fast speeds and solid streaming service unblocking. I scrutinized Proton VPN by running over 250 internet speed tests, assessing its apps on several devices and poring over its privacy policy. During my hands-on analysis, I checked for DNS leaks, tried all major privacy features and streamed several hours of movies and TV shows to assess its geo-unblocking prowess. During my evaluation, I talked with Proton VPN representatives via email and over video calls to learn about the company's product roadmap.Because of its well-rounded capabilities, Proton VPN is a great choice for a variety of folks. Whether you’re a Netflix streaming buff, a regular international traveler or have serious privacy concerns, Proton VPN is a compelling choice. Note, however, that its MacOS kill siwtch isn't as transparent about limitations as I'd like it to be. Still, Proton VPN’s premium tiers excel nearly across the board, from providing fast speeds and superb streaming support to offering neat privacy features, including discreet app icons and a proprietary VPN protocol that caters to privacy-critical users. Proton VPN speed: Lightning-quickKey takeaway: Proton VPN is fast and features a massive server network, making it great for travel and streaming. Its speed performance improved meaningfully from my previous year’s testing. In my everyday usage, Proton didn’t noticeably affect my internet connection, and I was impressed with how many different country servers I could pick from.Average speed loss: 15.8%Number of servers: 14,900-plusNumber of countries: 122Whether you’re on a blazing-fast fiber-optic connection, unreliable satellite internet or something in between, Proton VPN should give you the bulk of your standard bandwidth.
Proton VPN provided fast speeds that retained the bulk of my base internet bandwidth. Screenshot/CNETAll VPNs lower your internet speed somewhat. Normally, your internet-connected devices communicate directly with your ISP’s DNS servers, but when you’re using a VPN, there’s another stop your internet traffic has to make, which slows it down. The fastest VPNs only reduce your internet download speed by an average of 25% or less, and Proton severely undercut that with a solid 16% average internet download speed loss. Though not quite as speedy as NordVPN’s bewilderingly fast 3% average speed loss, Proton is no slouch, and one of the fastest VPNs on the planet.For context, Netflix recommends an internet speed of 15Mbps or greater for a 4K video stream. So even if you’ve got a download speed of 25Mbps -- slow by today’s standards -- Proton shouldn’t affect your daily activities. Speed tests are great, but real-world performance is what matters. In my testing, Proton VPN worked smoothly for all of the bandwidth-intensive tasks I threw at it, like downloading large games and watching movies -- I didn’t notice any buffering, even while streaming 4K videos.Speeds remain snappy regardless of the server or protocol
Because of its fast speeds, Proton VPN works well for bandwidth-intensive tasks, like downloading large files or competitive online gaming. Screenshot/CNETTwo main elements dictate speeds with a VPN: server location and VPN protocol. Based on my experience, Proton VPN should provide the bulk of your base internet speeds regardless of the VPN protocol or country server you use.Usually, you’ll experience slower speeds on geographically distant servers because your data travels further before reaching its destination. While my benchmarking confirmed this, I didn’t experience drastic drops, even when tunneling through a server on the other side of the globe. I experienced a perfectly respectable average 31% internet download speed drop on Singapore servers, for instance, which are fairly far from my home office in North Carolina. Sure, that’s nearly twice as slow as its total 16% average speed loss, but it’s still faster than the overall average speed loss of some rival VPNs. Generally, the WireGuard VPN protocol is faster than OpenVPN, which remained true in my testing. The biggest overall average speed loss I measured was 25% using OpenVPN on Windows (even though some individual server averages were slower), which should still be usable, even on slow or unreliable networks. By comparison, I clocked an average 19% internet speed loss with WireGuard on Windows, and a blazing-fast 6% speed loss using WireGuard on MacOS. I didn’t experience alarming internet speed reductions using any combination of servers and protocols.Proton VPN’s large international server network is great for travel and streamingBoasting 14,900-plus servers across 122 countries, Proton VPN provides an extensive international footprint, making Proton VPN one of the best VPNs for travel. For context, Proton offers more overall servers and countries than most of the VPNs we’ve tested, giving you more connection choices than many rivals. When you’re visiting another location, you may want to use a local server for extra privacy, or a server from your home country to access region-restricted content. Because of its generous server selection, Proton gives you plenty of options -- to the point where I’m considering using it on my personal devices when I galavant across the globe for my honeymoon next year. This means you can unblock tons of streaming services, including foreign Netflix libraries or region-specific sites such as BBC iPlayer and CBC Gem.   Cost: Your money goes a long wayKey takeaway: Proton VPN offers great value for its paid plan, has great device support and even includes a rare Linux GUI app. While its apps are decent, they may be overwhelming for VPN beginners. Fast speeds and fantastic unblocking capabilities make Proton one of the best VPNs for streaming.Price: Free, $10 a month, $60 for the first year or $108 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $80 per year)Money-back guarantee: 30 daysPayment options: Credit card, debit card, PayPal, BitcoinApps available for: Windows, MacOS, Linux (with GUI), iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Android, Android TV, Chromebooks, browsersIf you decide to use Proton VPN’s paid plan, you’ll find good value with its excellent mix of fast speeds, solid streaming options and strong privacy practices at a price that meets or beats competitors offering similar service.Proton’s one-year plan starts at $60 a year, which is less than ExpressVPN ($100 for the first year), the same as NordVPN and more expensive than Surfshark ($48 for the first year). Like most competitors, Proton hits you with price hikes. Its one- and two-year plans renew at $80 a year, which is considerably lower than the astronomical $140 that NordVPN charges. I like that with Proton, I don’t have to babysit my subscription. Overall, Proton VPN’s value is tough to beat. For the money, you get a fast VPN with stellar streaming chops that doesn’t sacrifice privacy.Proton’s free plan is the best (and only) free VPN option we recommendUsually, we at CNET don’t recommend using free VPNs. Often, if you’re not paying cash for a VPN, it’s costing you in some other way, from slow speeds or screens plastered with ads to malware-infected apps. But Proton's free VPN plan doesn’t sell your data or have any in-app ads. If you need a VPN and can’t or don’t want to pay, Proton VPN is the only option we enthusiastically vouch for. You can even start using Proton VPN’s free plan without signing up for an account using a guest account on Android. Although Proton VPN’s no-cost tier doesn’t skimp on privacy, it does have some limitations. There are no monthly usage restrictions, but you can’t choose a server manually, meaning when you click connect, you’re automatically shuffled onto a server in one of five countries: Netherlands, Japan, Romania, Poland and the US. And you can only connect on one device at a time instead of the 10 simultaneous connections with its paid plan. The company says its free VPN servers don't support streaming or torrenting, but I was nevertheless still able to unblock Netflix in my testing. By comparison, PrivadoVPN’s free plan lets you pick a server manually but limits you to 10GB of monthly usage. However, Privado hasn’t been audited, making it unsuitable for folks with critical privacy concerns.The shortcomings of Proton VPN’s free tier ultimately feel reasonable for a zero-dollar service. Plus, you’ve got a great upgrade path in Proton’s solid premium plan.Proton bundles offer decent value if you're looking for a password manager and cloud storage
Plan Proton FreeVPN PlusProton UnlimitedPrice Free$10 a month, $60 for the first year or $108 total (one- and two-year plans renew at $79 a year) $13 a month, $120 a year or $192 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $120 a year)VPN YesYesYesVPN server locations 5 countries14,900-plus servers in 122 countries14,900-plus servers in 122 countriesStreaming service unblocking support NoYesYesP2P support NoYesYesMalware and ad tracker blocker NoYesYesPassword manager One account, unlimited logins and notes, unlimited device support, passkey supportOne account, unlimited logins and notes, unlimited device support, passkey supportOne account, secure password sharing, two-factor authentication, dark web monitoring, unlimited aliases)Cloud storage 5GB of storage5GB of storage500GB GB of storageEmail One email address, 1GB mail storageOne email address, 1GB mail storage15 email addresses, unlimited folders and labels, three custom email domains
Many VPN companies are offering additional privacy or security software, like antivirus suites, password managers, cloud storage and other amenities in bundled subscriptions. There are pros and cons to bundling your VPN with other apps, but regardless of whether you bundle or go a la carte, a VPN, password manager and antivirus should all comprise your cybersecurity toolkit. Both the free tier and Proton VPN Plus -- its basic VPN plan -- give you free basic password manager, cloud storage and email features. But stepping up to Proton VPN Unlimited provides the company's premium VPN, password manager, cloud storage and email service. Especially because of its transparent, open-source apps and strong commitment to privacy, Proton Unlimited could be a great alternative to Google Suite.Proton VPN apps are pretty refined but could be better for beginners
Screenshot/CNETProton VPN’s apps aren’t bad, they’re just not quite as streamlined as some alternatives. I appreciated the app’s slick interface, which feels modern yet relatively intuitive. Essential VPN tasks like picking servers and changing protocols are fairly simple. With the exception of its Linux app, Proton VPN offers a reasonably uniform experience across all platforms. I appreciated the app’s slick interface, which feels modern yet relatively intuitive. Essential VPN tasks like picking servers, changing protocols and toggling on settings are fairly simple.
Proton VPN's apps are generally intuitive, while also offering advanced settings for power users to tinker with. Screenshot/CNETWith support for Windows, Mac, Linux, iPhone/iPad, Android, Android TV, Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV and web browsers, you can install Proton on virtually any device you own. There’s even a graphical user interface for its Linux app, a rarity among VPNs, which makes it easier to use for Linux newcomers than command-line interface apps.When you're connected to a server, you'll be able to see helpful information, like server load, your VPN IP address and the VPN protocol you're using. There's a simple-to-browse list of servers, plus an interactive map. Common privacy features, including a kill switch, split tunneling and port forwarding are all available on the main screen, which I liked for quick access. Especially with its port forwarding -- which might provide faster speeds when downloading torrents -- Proton VPN is one of the best VPNs for torrenting. Plus, other settings are available, like the ability to change VPN protocols or toggle on advanced networking options, so if you're a power user, you can tinker with your VPN connection.Proton VPN is an exceptional VPN for streaming
Fast speeds and excellent streaming service content unblocking make Proton VPN a solid choice for watching movies and shows on Netflix, BBC iPlayer, Disney Plus and other apps. Screenshot/CNETWith its snappy speeds and terrific region-restricted content unblocking, Proton VPN is a fantastic VPN for streaming.Because they mask your public IP address, VPNs can make it look like you’re in a different city, state or country. Accordingly, many folks rely on VPNs for streaming geographically restricted content, like foreign Netflix libraries. (You may even be able to save money using a VPN for streaming.) Proton VPN’s fast speeds make it an excellent option for watching 4K UHD and 1080p HD videos. I was able to stream buttery smooth 4K movies on a variety of services. With support for Android TV, Amazon Fire TV and Apple TV, you can easily use Proton on your smart TV. In my testing, I was blown away by Proton VPN’s unblocking capabilities. I easily watched Murdoch Mysteries on a Canadian server from CBC Gem and Dead and Buried via BBC iPlayer using a UK server. Amazon Prime Video US and UK streaming worked with Proton, so I enjoyed Alex Garland’s Civil War on Amazon Prime Video UK (on HBO Max in the States). For Netflix, Proton unlocked US, Canadian, UK, South African, Romanian, Australian and Japanese libraries. I even successfully streamed from Netflix Egypt, which is notoriously difficult to unblock -- only a handful of other VPN providers, including ExpressVPN and Surfshark, loaded Netflix Egypt. HBO Max US and international streaming support was pretty solid.Hulu, Peacock, Paramount Plus and Crunchyroll all played fine using US servers. I experienced issues with Hulu on my Android TV box -- it detected a VPN connection -- but I had no such problems on Windows or MacOS. In a few rare instances, I encountered a hiccup, like Netflix Norway loading while tunneling through an Egyptian server (I suspect this was a virtual server) or Japan Netflix initially not playing, but a quick server change sorted out any kinks. Proton offers responsive support, although it’s not 24/7 yetProton VPN has a robust knowledge base, an active blog with helpful guides and live chat. Its support area is simple to navigate, covering everything from creating a free account and troubleshooting common VPN issues to using Proton on different platforms. Its help guides have plenty of pictures to complement the written text, although I didn’t find many videos, which could be handy for VPN newcomers. Unlike many VPN providers, Proton VPN doesn’t currently offer 24/7 live chat. Instead, its customer service is available from 9 a.m. to 12 a.m. CET, and you’ll need to be an existing customer to contact its support team. However, a Proton VPN representative told me via videoconference and reaffirmed over email that it plans to roll out 24/7 live chat by the end of the year. Whereas many rivals, like NordVPN, first direct you to an AI chatbot, I got a real person in under one minute. I asked about what encryption Proton VPN’s proprietary Stealth protocol used, and the customer service agent gave me a detailed yet digestible answer within less than 5 minutes. Although it lacks round-the-clock live chat at the moment, Proton’s fast, knowledgeable customer help is great when you need it.Privacy and transparency: Among the best in the game, with one MacOS wrinkleKey takeaway: Proton offers a slew of privacy amenities, including specialty servers, discreet app icons, third-party audits and one of the most reader-friendly privacy policies I’ve encountered. Overall, it’s an excellent option for folks with serious privacy concerns, although a MacOS kill switch design oversight may be worrisome to Apple users.Jurisdiction: Switzerland (Not in the Five, Nine or 14 Eyes)Encryption: AES-256 or ChaCha20Open-source appsNo DNS leaks detectedIndependently auditedProtocols available: WireGuard, OpenVPN, IKEV2/IPSec or StealthProton VPN has built its reputation around privacy and transparency. Its privacy-friendly jurisdiction, which is outside the Five, Nine and 14 Eyes data-sharing alliances, is complemented by its open-source apps and nifty privacy features.
You've got a lot of granular control over your VPN connection, including a choice of VPN protocols. Screenshot/CNETIts apps are open-source, so anyone can inspect the source code to look for vulnerabilities -- a great move for transparency. Only a handful of our other VPN top picks, including PIA and Mullvad, have open-source apps. You’ll find a choice of different VPN protocols, including OpenVPN, WireGuard, IKEv2 and Proton’s proprietary Stealth. The aptly named Stealth protocol masquerades as standard web traffic to bypass VPN blocks, so you may be able to use Stealth on school Wi-Fi or other networks that restrict VPN usage.However, some features, like split tunneling, are absent on iOS/iPadOS and MacOS, although that’s true of most VPN providers since it’s an Apple-side limitation. Split tunneling lets you use a VPN for some apps but not others, so you can stream video from other libraries without slowing your download speeds for games, for example. Proton VPN's Linux app does support split tunneling, though.Killswitch works as expected, but MacOS limitations aren't as clear as they should beProton offers a basic kill switch that disconnects your internet if your VPN unexpectedly gets disconnected, as well as an advanced kill switch that only lets you access the internet while your VPN is enabled -- even if you restart your device, the advanced kill switch prevents you from accessing the internet. While these features worked as expected, I experienced a confusing design oversight with Proton VPN’s kill switch on MacOS. A kill switch should prevent your public IP address from being viewed by apps you’re using and websites you’re visiting if your internet is disrupted. The kill switch prevented my public IP address from being accessible when switching servers or in case of an unexpected internet connection on Windows, but it didn’t on Mac. My public IP address was unmasked while changing servers. Notably, this is an Apple limitation and not Proton’s fault. Many VPNs function the same way but also display a pop-up notification explaining that your public IP address is available while changing servers. I’d like more transparency that your public IP address is unprotected when changing servers. Technically, there is a notification saying "not connected", which is clear enough, but that's during the server change, at which point it's too late to close out of any websites or apps to hide any activity you don't want your ISP knowing about. There needs to be a warning message before jumping to another server to let folks know that their public IP addresses -- and accordingly any internet activity -- won't remain private while changing VPN servers. Proton VPN's MacOS app also displays a notification with your unmasked public IP address when hopping servers, but because Proton’s app blurs the screen when jumping servers, it's not readable.
I'd like to see Proton VPN's Mac app be more transparent with users to clearly communicate that the encrypted tunnel breaks when switching servers, even with the kill switch enabled. Screenshot/CNETAdvanced features: Secure Core servers and Tor over VPN serversAside from the standard privacy suite, Proton offers specialty servers, nifty platform-specific features and strong transparency. A standard VPN connection routes your internet traffic through an encrypted server before it reaches its destination and should suffice for the average user who needs essential privacy. But for folks with serious privacy concerns -- like asylum seekers or political activists -- Proton VPN packs a privacy punch. Proton VPN offers some specialty servers:Secure Core servers: Proton's name for multi-hop or double VPN servers, which use a pair of VPN connections to make it even harder to trace your web traffic back to your machine than a standard VPN connection.Tor over VPN servers: Use Tor, or The Onion Router, in conjunction with a VPN connection, to make it harder to link your internet traffic back to your device.P2P servers: Optimized for file-sharing, such as torrenting.Its Secure Core servers are double VPN, or double hop, servers, meaning a second VPN connection makes it even harder to trace your data back to its source (your device). Secure Core servers doubly encrypt your web traffic and are physically located in Iceland, Sweden and Switzerland, with extra protections in place, like biometric security to guard your data privacy.
In addition to its standard VPN connections, Proton provides Secure Core servers, which use a second VPN connection for beefed-up privacy. Screenshot/CNETYou also get access to Tor Over VPN servers, which deliver similar benefits to Secure Core servers -- enhanced privacy compared to a standard VPN connection -- but using The Onion Router instead of an additional VPN server. Both its Secure Core and Onion servers will be slower than a traditional VPN connection since your data makes extra “stops” with detours through additional servers. But if you’ve got critical privacy needs, Tor over VPN and multi-hop servers are nice inclusions.
You can use Tor in conjunction with a VPN connection to enhance your privacy. Screenshot/CNETDiscreet app icons hide the fact that you have a VPN installed on your deviceOne of my favorite Proton VPN features is its discreet app icon functionality. You can change the Proton VPN app icon on mobile devices to look like a different application, like a weather or notes app. Accordingly, if your phone or tablet is seized and searched, it will look as though you don’t have a VPN installed. I could see this being a helpful option for folks traveling to countries that frown upon VPNs. This sort of thoughtful design sets Proton apart from many competitors. Currently, its discreet app icons are only available on Android.Proton VPN has a reader-friendly privacy policy, undergoes regular third-party audits and publishes a decent transparency reportPrivacy policies can be nearly impossible to decipher and sometimes make me feel like I’ve stumbled headlong into the maze from The Shining. Thankfully, Proton VPN’s privacy policy is one of the most reader-friendly -- not just among VPN companies but in general. The company is pretty clear that it doesn’t log any user data:“Account activity: Proton VPN is a no-logs VPN service. When you use the Service, we do NOT do any of the following:Log users' traffic or the content of any communicationsDiscriminate against devices, protocols, or applicationsThrottle your internet connection”Like most VPN services, Proton maintains a strict no-logs policy, but you should remain skeptical of those claims from any VPN service. That said, Proton undergoes regular audits by reliable third parties to back up its zero-log claims. I appreciate its annual cadence: Proton underwent a successful no-logs audit in July 2024 conducted by Securitum, which found no evidence of logging practices. This followed up audits in 2022 and 2023. Although audits don’t paint a complete picture, they’re an important trust signal that VPN companies can provide. Proton’s transparency report states that it received 27 legal orders in 2024, denying all 27. I like that 100% completion rate because it indicates that Proton VPN has your back when other people come looking for data. With its clear, concise privacy policy and regularly audited no-logging policy, Proton VPN should put even the most privacy-conscious users at ease.Proton’s non-VPN offerings may log IP addresses in rare circumstancesAlthough Proton VPN doesn’t log your session data, its non-VPN offerings -- like its email client -- may log your IP address. Its privacy policy states: “IP logging: By default, we do not keep permanent IP logs in relation with your Account. However, IP logs may be kept temporarily to combat abuse and fraud, and your IP address may be retained permanently if you are engaged in activities that breach our Terms of Service (e.g. spamming, DDoS attacks against our infrastructure, brute force attacks).”Essentially, Proton doesn’t log IP addresses out of the box, but may under certain circumstances with its non-VPN product suite, like its Proton Mail email client. As TechCruch reported in 2021, Proton Mail complied with a request from Swiss authorities for a user’s IP address. That’s because under Swiss Law, VPNs and email are treated differently. Under Swiss Law, VPN services are exempt from IP address logging, whereas, with email, IP logs can be requested by law enforcement agencies. While IP logging may not affect VPN users, I can see how someone with strict privacy concerns may be worried about signing up for Proton Mail or Proton Drive. Still, all your files, including emails, are encrypted, so the identifiable information Proton has about you is limited to IP addresses.Proton VPN is excellent for privacy-conscious people and streaming junkies alikeBecause of its free plan that doesn’t sacrifice privacy, Proton VPN is the best free VPN provider available. But, while true, that superlative does its premium plan a disservice. Fast speeds, outstanding streaming service unblocking plus excellent privacy and transparency make Proton VPN a compelling alternative to rivals like NordVPN and ExpressVPN. Proton does just about everything well; whether you want to watch foreign Netflix libraries, have critical privacy concerns or want to travel internationally, it’s a solid choice. Although its apps aren’t quite as user-friendly as they could be, they’re not difficult per se, just not as polished as offerings from NordVPN, Surfshark or ExpressVPN. The big downside is Proton’s unclear kill switch on MacOS. I don’t expect every VPN provider to maintain an encrypted tunnel when changing servers, but the kill switch revealing public IP addresses when changing servers without an obvious warning is a blemish considering Proton’s reputation for privacy. I’d like to at least see a pop-up warning folks that their IP address may be temporarily unmasked. Notably, Proton promised a fix to the MacOS app in its next update, so I was impressed (although not surprised) with its receptive response to my feedback.Otherwise, Proton VPN is a terrific VPN that works for various situations, from travel and streaming to serious privacy.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
MOE LONG
Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.