New Popeyes Hot Ones Menu Review: How Spicy It Actually Is
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
COURTESY POPEYES X HOT ONES
Home
News
New Products
I Tried the New Popeyes x Hot Ones Menu—Here’s How Spicy It Really Is
COURTESY POPEYES X HOT ONES
By
Joseph Erbentraut
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 16, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
The fast-food chain's new collab lets you pretend you're a celebrity across the table from Sean Evans.
There is no pop culture phenomenon quite like Hot Ones. Ten years ago, the YouTube talk show launched, and host Sean Evans has been alarming celebrities with probing questions and burning-hot wings ever since. In that decade, the show has amassed a cult following of more than 15 million subscribers and endless merch and internet memes.
It was really only a matter of time before a fast-food chain linked up with Hot Ones, and that’s exactly what Popeyes has done with its new Popeyes x Hot Ones menu. The menu is now available for a limited time, and I bravely tried everything.
What’s on the new Popeyes x Hot Ones menu?
JOE ERBENTRAUT FOR TASTE OF HOME
The new menu has four items. As a nod to the hit YouTube series, the offerings are available in ascending order of spice level:
Sizzlin’ Sriracha Dippers: These Chicken Dippers are said to be mild. They are marinated in pickled garlic Sriracha and served with a Last Dab Ranch dip cup and a fiery Sriracha sachet.
Smokin’ Rojo Sandwich: This is the chain’s iconic fried chicken sandwich topped with a medium-spicy Hot Ones Los Calientes Rojo spread, complete with the chain’s signature brioche bun and tangy pickle slices.
Darin’ Dab Ghost Wings: Popeyes’ classic chicken wings (available either bone-in or boneless) are dusted with a “very hot” ghost pepper dry rub. The wings are served with a Last Dab Ranch dip cup.
The Last Dab: Iconic to the Hot Ones brand, the Last Dab sauce sachet (different from the ranch cup) lets serious heat seekers add a final “extremely hot” dab to their wings.
Is the Popeyes Hot Ones menu actually spicy?
JOE ERBENTRAUT FOR TASTE OF HOME
Far too often in recent years, fast-food chains have launched limited-edition spicy menu items that fail to bring the heat. I’m happy to report that this was not the case here.
To stay true to the Hot Ones ethos, I began my tasting of the Popeyes Hot Ones menu with the most mild item: the Sizzlin’ Sriracha Dippers. I did not receive Sriracha with my order, sadly, so I dipped the chicken instead into the Last Dab Ranch dip. This dip caught me off guard—it was tangy and creamy as any good ranch should be, but it packed a bounty of heat that lingered on my tongue. Still, as spicy as it was, it was not heat just for heat’s sake—it kept bringing me back for more.
Next, I tried the Smokin’ Rojo Sandwich, which was a bit of a letdown. After experiencing the spicy ranch dip, the heat coming from the Los Calientes Rojo spread felt much more mild and was overwhelmingly smoky, a flavor profile I don’t personally enjoy. Still, the chain’s chicken sandwich is beloved for a reason, so I can’t complain too much!
Then, it was time for the Darin’ Dab Ghost Wings. The heat on the wings themselves comes from the dry rub. Most of the dry rub on my order had been knocked off the breading and sank to the bottom of the box, so I found the wings to be surprisingly tolerable.
Finally, it was time for the ultimate test: The Last Dab sauce. I fully went for it, feeling brave after two “rounds” that were less spicy than I had expected. I chose the wing with the most visible dry rub and squirted a large dose of the dab sauce on top.
At first, I was underwhelmed—and then the heat crept up on me, and I wished that my mouth could exit my body for a couple of minutes while my eyes watered and my throat tickled. Indeed, The Last Dab lived up to its hype.
All things considered, I was impressed by the Popeyes x Hot Ones menu and grateful that nobody was asking me questions while a camera captured my every move. The Last Dab Ranch is one heck of a dip, and The Last Dab hot sauce is, indeed, not for the weak.
Related:
I Tried the New McDonald’s Gold Sauce and It Tastes Like Sweet, Smoky Heaven
Ina Garten Just Shared Her Easiest Appetizer Recipe Ever
A New Protein Drink Has Entered the Market, and You’ll Never Guess What It Is
Author
Joseph Erbentraut
Joseph Erbentraut is an editor, writer and editorial leader based in the Chicago area. He covers celebrity chefs and cooking icons for Taste of Home.
Read More
Tyler Smith
Home cook and dad of two, Tyler shares recipes as @girldadskitchen. Fans love his over-the-top inventions.
Ribs
Tyler Smith’s Party Ribs
Pasta
Tyler Smith’s Cheesy Italian Shells
Burgers
Tyler Smith’s Smash Burgers
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box