Bitbucket Pipelines | Atlassian
Close
View this page in your language?
All languages
Choose your language
中文
Deutsch
English
Español
Français
Italiano
한국어
Nederlands
日本語
Português
Pусский
Polski
Get it Free
Why Bitbucket
Features
Plans
Features CI/CD Cloud Security DevSecOps Code Review Jira Integrations
Plans Bitbucket Cloud Premium
Back
Self-Hosted
Pricing
More + Less -
Get it Free
Back
Get it Free
Build CI/CD workflows that are fully automated
Orchestrate your software delivery journey,  for a single team or across your organization, with Bitbucket Pipelines.
Try it free
CI/CD built into Bitbucket
No more jumping between applications. Accelerate velocity by consolidating your code and CI/CD on one platform.
Fast time to value
No servers to set up, user management to configure, or repos to synchronize. Enable Pipelines in a few clicks and you're ready to go.
Org-wide orchestration
Design CI/CD workflows for your organization. Standardize, automate, and choose whether to enforce, all from one place.
Automate your builds, tests, and deployments
Pipeline visibility
End-to-end workflows
Hybrid runners
Deployment visibility
Pipeline visibility
End-to-end workflows
Hybrid runners
Deployment visibility
Pipeline visibility
Track pipeline progress, monitor logs in realtime, and debug issues without losing context.
End-to-end workflows
Connect your tools across testing, security and more to build deployment workflows that you can easily share and reuse
Hybrid runners
Scale on demand with our cloud runners, or connect to your own runners behind the firewall.
Deployment visibility
Track, preview, and monitor deployments. See which version of your software is running in each of your environments, all in one place.
Orchestrate CI/CD workflows at scale
Standardize across teams
Set compliant, best practice CI/CD workflows at an organization level and have them instantly applied everywhere.
Improve governance
Define company-wide policies, rules, and processes as code and enforce them across every repository.
Save time for developers
Help developers focus on code by designing, building, and sharing CI/CD workflows at a platform level to empower your individual teams.
Learn more about dynamic pipelines
Plug and play across the Atlassian platform
Better collaboration
Instant DORA metrics
Easier change management
Better collaboration
Instant DORA metrics
Easier change management
Better collaboration
Easily share build and deployment status across R&D and business stakeholders via Jira, Confluence, and the Atlassian Platform.
Instant DORA metrics
Empower development teams to improve quality and performance with DORA metrics accessed through Jira and Compass.
Easier change management
Automate change management processes with powerful integrations like deployment approval workflows in Jira Service Management.
CI/CD for all teams
Bitbucket Pipelines is fast to get started, easy to use, and scales to fit the needs of teams and organizations of any size.
Easy to get started
Set up CI/CD workflows from a library of language specific templates, leverage our catalog of over 100 pre-built workflows, or custom build your own templates.
Extend to your needs
Pipelines includes over 100+ out-of-the-box integrations. Need something extra? Custom build exactly what you need.
Supports all platforms
Build, test, and deploy with any language, OS, or architecture. From Java to Javascript - Linux, Windows, and MacOS - with support for both X86 and ARM.
Smarter CI/CD
Automatically adapt your CI/CD workflow at runtime based on code changes, internal compliance policies, or information stored in other tools.
Configuration as code
Store and manage your build configurations in a single YAML file. Only 7 lines of code to get you started.
Included in Bitbucket
Pipelines is included as part of your Bitbucket subscription. Only pay for additional build minutes.
Build a connected pipeline
Create powerful, automated CI/CD workflows with over 100 out-of-the-box integrations and the ability to customize to your organization’s needs.
Learn more about Pipes
Powering CI/CD workflows for millions of developers
“It’s easier to see what caused the issue because we have CI/CD pipelines where we see all deployments, which are linked to Jira tickets, which are also linked to Confluence, Bitbucket, and Slack”
Roman Bugaev, Flo CTO
View their story
Learn more
Join our community
Get advice from the Bitbucket team and other customers on how to get started with Pipelines.
Learn more
Check out our guides
Get step by step instructions on how to move your CI/CD workflows into Bitbucket pipelines from other tools.
Learn more
Watch the demo
See how to build a CI/CD pipeline using Bitbucket Pipelines to automate your AWS deployment.
Learn more
Take Bitbucket Cloud for a spin
Try it now
FAQ
How much does Bitbucket Pipelines cost?
Bitbucket Pipelines is included as part of your Bitbucket Cloud plan. You only pay for supplemental build minutes that go beyond the build minutes that are included in your plan each month. Free                                         50 min / month included Standard                             2500 min / month included Premium                             3500 min / month included Additional minutes         $10 / month for 1000 min See plan details               Full details of each plan can be seen on the Bitbucket pricing page.
How is pricing determined?
Pipelines pricing is based on how long your builds take to run. Many teams will use less than the plan's minute allocation, but can buy extra CI capacity in 1000 minute blocks as needed.
How many build minutes does my team need?
We see small teams with fast builds using about 200 minutes, while teams of 5–10 devs typically use 400–600 minutes a month on Pipelines.
Is unlimited concurrency included in Bitbucket Pipelines?
Pipelines lets your team run any number of builds concurrently. Builds start as soon as code is pushed to Bitbucket, so your team doesn’t wait for agents to free up, and saves precious developer time.
How do I optimize my usage of Bitbucket to reduce build minutes?
Pipelines gives you the feedback and features you need to speed up your builds. Build times and monthly usage are shown in-product, and dependency caching speeds up common tasks.
Company
Careers
Events
Blogs
Investor Relations
Atlassian Foundation
Press kit
Contact us
products
Rovo
Jira
Jira Align
Jira Service Management
Confluence
Loom
Trello
Bitbucket
See all products
Resources
Technical support
Purchasing & licensing
Atlassian Community
Knowledge base
Marketplace
My account
Create support ticket
Learn
Partners
Training & certification
Documentation
Developer resources
Enterprise services
See all resources
Copyright © 2025 Atlassian
Privacy Policy
Terms
Impressum
Choose language Deutsch English Español Français Italiano 한국어 Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português русский 中文