Fashion show - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
Toggle History subsection
1.1
19th and 20th centuries
1.2
21st century
2
Format and setting
3
Models
4
Catwalk
5
Terminology
6
Gallery
7
See also
8
References
9
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Fashion show
33 languages
العربيةԱրեւմտահայերէնAzərbaycancaবাংলাBikol CentralCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEsperantoFrançais한국어ՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתKiswahiliLëtzebuergeschBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Event of displaying latest clothing and apparel collection
For other uses, see Fashion show (disambiguation).
Liu Wen, a supermodel, walking the catwalk as she models fashions by designer Diane von Fürstenberg at New York Fashion Week in 2013
A fashion show is an event put on by a fashion designer to showcase their upcoming line of clothing and/or accessories during a fashion week. Fashion shows debut every season, particularly the spring/summer and fall/winter seasons. This is where designers seek to promote their new fashions. The four major fashion weeks in the world, collectively known as the "Big 4", are those held in New York City, London, Milan, and Paris.[1][2] Berlin Fashion Week is also of global importance.[1][2]
In a typical fashion show, models walk the catwalk dressed in the clothing created by the designer. Clothing is illuminated on the catwalk using lighting and special effects. The order in which each model walks out, wearing a specific outfit, is usually planned in accordance with the statement that the designer wants to make about their collection. It is then up to the audience to try to understand what the designer is trying to "say", visually deconstruct each outfit and appreciate the detail and craftsmanship of every piece.
Occasionally, fashion shows take the form of installations, where the models are static, standing or sitting in a constructed environment. A wide range of contemporary designers produce their shows as theatrical productions, with elaborate sets and added elements such as live music or a technological components such as holograms or pre-recorded video backdrops.
History[edit]
19th and 20th centuries[edit]
Paris fashion and runway at the turn of the century
The origins of fashion shows remain ambiguous to historians, as there has yet to be a comprehensive study on the subject.[3] One of the designers of this concept, Charles Frederick Worth, gained traction by displaying clothes on actual people instead of mannequins. By the end of the 19th century, "fashion parades" were regularly organized at Paris couture salons.[4] American retailers imported the concept of the fashion show in the early 1900s.[3] The first American fashion show likely took place in 1903 in the New York City store of the Ehrlich Brothers.[3] By 1910, large department stores such as Wanamaker's in Manhattan and Philadelphia were also staging fashion shows.[3] These events showed couture gowns from Paris or the store's copies of them; they aimed to demonstrate the owners' good taste and capture the attention of female shoppers.[3] As the popularity for these formal presentations expanded, it was in 1918 when fashion houses established fixed dates for runway shows to occur. These occurrences took place twice annually, specifically for fashion houses to plan for and promote their lines to foreign buyers. Runway shows were often held in department stores or hotels when they first began. European fashion houses would actively seek out buyers in the United States, specifically in larger cities, by hosting these runway shows.[5]
By the 1920s, retailers across the United States held fashion shows.[3] Often, these shows were theatrical, presented with narratives, and organized around a theme (e.g. Parisian, Chinese, or Russian).[3] These shows enjoyed huge popularity through mid-century, sometimes attracting thousands of customers and gawkers.[3]
Finnish actress Elina Salo presenting clothes designed by Vuokko Nurmesniemi at a fashion show in the Helsinki Botanical Garden in 1958
In the 1970s and 1980s, American designers began to hold their own fashion shows in private spaces separate from such retailers.[3] In the early 1990s, however, many in the fashion world began to rethink this strategy.[3] Fern Mallis, who was the executive director of the Council of Fashion Designers of America at the time, remembered that following a series of accidents at shows held in small, hazardous venues, the prevailing attitude was, "We love fashion but we don't want to die for it."[3] In response to these shows, the New York shows were centralized in Bryant Park during Fashion Week in late 1993.[3]
21st century[edit]
Some designers have attempted to modernize the style and presentation of fashion shows by integrating technological advances in experimental ways, such as including pre-recorded digital videos as backdrops.[6] During New York Fashion Week in 2014, designer Ralph Lauren[3] presented his new Polo line for Spring 2015 in a water-screen projection in Manhattan's Central Park.[7] Technological progress has also allowed a broader portion of the fashion industry's followers to experience shows. In 2010, London Fashion Week was the first fashion week to allow viewing of its shows through live streaming.[3][8] Live streaming of runway shows and mediated shows has now become commonplace.[9]
Tom Ford created a music video with Lady Gaga for his Spring/Summer 2016 women's collection.[10][11]
In the 21st century, fashion shows are usually also filmed and appear on specially assigned television channels or even in documentaries.[12] Shows have also become increasingly elaborate for many of the top labels, including sprawling sets that often come with higher costs.[13]
Fashion shows present the latest seasonal styles, functioning as both a walking art exhibition and a blueprint for fast fashion stores that replicate high fashion designs. While they can sometimes be perceived as shocking, this is often intentional, serving the crucial purpose of generating publicity.[14] For many others, fashion shows also represent a way of life and establish the annual mood. Attendees of the performances also get to see an artistic medium firsthand and network with professionals in the field. Fashion presentations have evolved in the digital age, with the epidemic hastening this transition.
Format and setting[edit]
A runway may be as basic as a narrow space between rows of chairs or more elaborate setups with multiple catwalks. Most runway shows are held inside, for shelter against the weather, but there are times when runway shows are held outdoors. In the 2016 Paris Fashion Week, Chanel presented an elaborate setup by designing the hall as if it were an airport.
The viewing guests sat as if they were awaiting their flights while the models walked around the airport approaching ticket counters.[15]
Models[edit]
Main article: Model (person)
With the creation of runway shows, the concept of runway modeling was rapidly established with the establishment of agencies and professional modeling careers. Before professional agencies, fashion houses that runway shows often had their own in house models who would specifically be fitted and costumes for each show. By having in house models to present the clothes for runway, the fashion houses could ensure that the clothing was perfectly altered for presentation and bound to sell. However, as the demand for models grew, the modeling agency was established to represent runway models.[16]
Catwalk[edit]
"Catwalk" redirects here. For other uses, see Catwalk (disambiguation).
The term catwalk originates from the walkway, stage platform, or clearing used by models to demonstrate clothing and accessories during a fashion show.[17] Catwalks are used by designers to introduce new fashion lines and introduce new designers that grab the attention of consumers. In fashion jargon, "what's on the catwalk" or similar phrasing can refer to whatever is new and popular in fashion. Some, especially in the United States, refer to the catwalk as a runway.[18]
Terminology[edit]
Fashion sketching before live runway presentation
Exclusive: When a model scores an exclusive for a fashion label, this means that they have been picked to walk for that particular designer only. This might launch their career, elevate their status in the fashion industry and 'guarantee' them spots on the world's best catwalks.[19]
Haute couture: A French phrase for high fashion. Runway shows were created to specifically display custom garments such as Haute couture.[20]
Look book: A collection of photos taken of models wearing a designer's or manufacturer's clothing, that is sent out to fashion editors, buyers, clients, and special customers to show the designer's looks for the season.[20]
Sketches: Sketches, or illustrations, were the first way that designers would present clientele with their line. This is before mannequins and live runway models were established within the industry.[21]
Gallery[edit]
Example of an elaborate stage set used for the Chanel Haute Couture Fall-Winter 2011 show
Models on the runway at São Paulo Fashion Week, 2017
Haute couture fashion models walking the catwalk at the Carolina Herrera show during New York Fashion Week in 2014.
See also[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Fashion shows.
Fashion
Fashion design
Fashion trend
Fashion week
Fetish fashion
Haute couture
List of fashion events
List of individual dresses
References[edit]
^ a b Bradford, Julie (2014). Fashion Journalism. Routledge. p. 129. ISBN 9781136475368. Archived from the original on January 1, 2016. Retrieved November 20, 2015.
^ a b Dillon, Susan (2011). The Fundamentals of Fashion Management. A&C Black. p. 115. ISBN 9782940411580. Archived from the original on January 1, 2016. Retrieved November 20, 2015.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n Fortini, Amanda (February 8, 2006). "How the Runway Took Off". Slate. ISSN 1091-2339. Retrieved June 26, 2024.
^ Parmal, Pamela A.; Grumbach, Didier; Ward, Susan; Whitley, Lauren D., eds. (2006).
Written at Boston, Massachusetts, United States. Fashion show: Paris style (1st ed.). Museum of Fine Arts: MFA Publications. ISBN 978-0-87846-707-5. OCLC 76834334.
^ "History of the Runway Show". RNWY®. April 5, 2017. Archived from the original on July 31, 2020. Retrieved June 3, 2019.
^ "New York Fashion Week Explores Technology's role in fashion". Fashionista.com. September 12, 2014. Archived from the original on August 18, 2016. Retrieved January 16, 2017.
^ "Press Releases – Press Releases - Ralph Lauren Investor Relations". Investor.ralphlauren.com. September 8, 2014. Retrieved January 16, 2017.
^ Alex Wood. "London fashion week: why technology is in fashion". The Guardian. Archived from the original on September 21, 2016. Retrieved January 16, 2017.
^ "Posts | Launchmetrics". Fashiongps.com. March 25, 2014. Archived from the original on June 8, 2015. Retrieved January 16, 2017.
^ "TOM FORD WOMENSWEAR SS16". YouTube. Archived from the original on December 23, 2016. Retrieved March 19, 2017.
^ jezebel.com Tom Ford's Runway Show Was a Video Starring Lady Gaga Archived March 20, 2017, at the Wayback Machine, Julianne Escobedo Shepherd, 10/02/15
^ Bible Black, a documentary on a fashion show held by Andrew Mackenzie
Urban.dk, November 13, 2008, artikel-id: e14a0053 (November 11, 2008).
^ Murrow, Laura (March 6, 2012). "Transplanted Trees, Paper Kingdoms, and Flames: The Best Fashion Week Set Design". The Cut. New York Media LLC. Archived from the original on July 2, 2015. Retrieved July 1, 2015.
^ Hespokestyle. "What is the purpose of a fashion show?". Hepsokestyle. Archived from the original on April 20, 2021. Retrieved April 7, 2021.
^ "Paris Fashion Week 2015: Chanel Turns The Runway Into Airport, Jet-Setter's Dream! [PHOTOS]". Latin Times. October 7, 2015. Archived from the original on June 29, 2018. Retrieved December 10, 2015.
^ Evans, Caroline. "Fashion Models". LoveToKnow. Archived from the original on July 31, 2020. Retrieved June 3, 2019.
^ runway Archived July 15, 2017, at the Wayback Machine, 3.b, Merriam-Webster Dictionary
^ "catwalk – Dictionary Definition". Vocabulary.com. Archived from the original on July 31, 2020. Retrieved June 3, 2019.
^ Lim, James (February 20, 2009). "Lyndsey Scott: First Black Model to Score Calvin Exclusive". New York Magazine. Archived from the original on July 19, 2012. Retrieved June 12, 2011.
^ a b Helmer, Vanessa. "Here Is a Glossary of Must-Know Modeling Terms". The Balance Careers. Archived from the original on June 3, 2019. Retrieved June 3, 2019.
^ Victoria and Albert Museum, Digital Media webmaster@vam ac uk (August 13, 2013). "Fashion Drawing and Illustration in the 20th Century". www.vam.ac.uk. Archived from the original on July 31, 2020. Retrieved June 3, 2019.
External links[edit]
Media related to Catwalk at Wikimedia Commons
vteFashion articlesIndex of fashion articlesGeneral
Environmental impact of fashion
Fashion accessory
Fashion design
Fashion design copyright
Fashion matrix
Fashion museum
Fashion plate
Fashion tourism
Semiotics of fashion
History
History of clothing and textiles
History of Western fashion
History of fashion design
Timeline of clothing and textiles technology
19th century
21st century
Events
Fashion show
Fashion week
Industry
Awards
Clothing industry
Designer clothing
Digital fashion
Fashion blog
Fashion capital
Fashion entrepreneur
Fashion editor
Fashion forecasting
Fashion illustration
Fashion influencer
Fashion journalism
Fashion law
Fashion photography
Fashion merchandising
Fast fashion
in China
Red carpet fashion
Social media in the fashion industry
Sweatshop
Trickle-up fashion
Trickle-down fashion
Traditionalclothing
Ceremonial
Court
Diplomatic
Academic
Military
Full
Mess
Service
Sailor
Combat
Folk
Western dress codes
Formal
Morning dress
White tie
Ball gown
Semi-formal
Black lounge suit
Black tie
Evening gown
Informal
Suit
Cocktail dress
Pantsuit
Religious
Christian
Jewish
Islamic
Modest fashion
CasualSmart casual
British country clothing
Business casual
Nautical style
Chic
Cruise collection
Preppy
Ivy League
Mod
Sloane Ranger
Teddy Boys
Young fogey
Street fashion
Streetwear
Hip hop
Hippie
Hipster
Sportswear
Athleisure
Gorpcore
Sportswear fashion
Surfwear
Ghetto fabulous
Bling-bling
Vintage fashion
Alternative
Androgyny
Bohemian
Emo
Fetish
Gothic
Lolita
Queer
Skinhead
Steampunk
Thrift store chic
Rocker
Greaser
Glam
Grunge
Heavy metal
Punk
Skate
Rockabilly
By country
American fashion
British fashion
Canadian fashion
Chinese fashion
Filipino fashion
French fashion
German fashion
Indian fashion
Iranian fashion
Israeli fashion
Italian fashion
History
Japanese fashion
Nigerian fashion
Russian fashion
South Korean fashion
Swedish fashion
Taiwanese fashion
Thai fashion
Vietnamese clothing
Fashion activism
Anti-fashion
Anti-sweatshop movement
Circular fashion
Environmental sustainability of vintage fashion
Ethical consumerism
Fair trade certification
Sustainable fashion
Slow fashion
Textile recycling
Trashion
Zero-waste fashion
Related
Androgyny
Dandy
Effeminacy
Fop
Macaroni
Metrosexual
Ballet and fashion
Capsule wardrobe
Chinoiserie in fashion
Dress code
Undress
Fashion victim
Genderless fashion in Japan
List of boots
List of bra designs
List of hat styles
List of headgear
List of fur headgear
List of individual dresses
List of shoe styles
Music and fashion
Tattoo
Fashion portal
Authority control databases InternationalGNDNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fashion_show&oldid=1313355807"
Category: Fashion eventsHidden categories: CS1 location testWebarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from January 2017Commons category link is on WikidataCommons link is locally definedArticles containing video clips
This page was last edited on 25 September 2025, at 19:05 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Fashion show
33 languages
Add topic