If you pre-ordered Borderlands 4 on the Switch 2, I have bad news: the game has been delayed, but you might get a refund
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
If you pre-ordered Borderlands 4 on the Switch 2, I have bad news: the game has been delayed, but you might get a refund
Source: 2K Games
By
Simon Batt
Published 22 hours ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Borderlands 4 Switch 2 release delayed indefinitely for extra polish and cross-save alignment.
Nintendo eShop digital preorders will be refunded automatically on Sept 26, or can be canceled now.
Physical preorders need retailer contact for refunds; Gearbox aims for a polished Switch 2 launch.
With people having enough time with Borderlands 4 to form a solid opinion about the game, the general consensus seems to be that, while it does suffer from some nasty technical issues, the core gameplay is solid. However, it has made some people wonder how the game will run on the Switch 2, given how beefy PC rigs are having issues with rendering the game. Well, there's a chance that even Gearbox itself isn't sure how it's going to manage the feat. The company has announced that the game has been delayed. While it hasn't cited a specific reason, I'd definitely bet that it's trying to get everything running smoothly on Nintendo's console.
Borderlands 4 for the Switch 2 has been delayed for the foreseeable future
In a post on the official Borderlands 4 X page, the company breaks the bad news that the Switch 2 version, which was due to release on October 3rd, has been pushed back. The company has not provided us with a new release date; still, it does reveal that it's "ensuring we deliver the best possible experience to our fans, and the game needs additional development and polish time to do that." Gearbox is also trying to align the Switch 2 release with cross saves.
However, there's an additional layer to this piece of news. Further on in the X post, Gearbox states that, "in accordance with Nintendo’s policy," any digital preorders made on the Nintendo eShop will be refunded. You can either cancel it manually or wait until September 26th, when the refunds will be processed automatically. It seems that Nintendo is quite strict about game developers requesting preorders and then pushing back the release date. Gearbox does state that this may not apply to physical pre-orders, so if you have one of those and want a refund, you'll need to contact the seller to determine the situation. There's a good chance they'll have a policy about refunding pre-orders, and given how the game has been delayed until further notice, it shouldn't fall foul of any lock-in conditions that stop you cancelling orders a week or so before release. Here's hoping Gearbox manages to get Borderlands 4 in a polished and tidy state soon; after all, the game's release made a good case against buggy launches.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
AMD Threadripper CPUs are surprisingly efficient for home labs
1 day ago
6 of the coolest HACS integrations for Home Assistant users
2 days ago
This free, open-source Spotify alternative you can make with your friends
1 day ago
This chair moves with you: LiberNovo Omni's pre-sale begins after record Kickstarter
More from our brands
I Know Why There Are Barely Any Switch 2 Exclusives, And It's For A Bad Reason
How to Play Borderlands 4 Early (Does Borderlands 4 Have Early Access?)
All Shift codes for Borderlands 4
Nintendo Switch 2 Has 8 Big Games Releasing in October 2025
Borderlands 4 Forces Fans To Fall Back in Love With a Classic Game
5 Official Technical Fixes Borderlands 4 Needs The Most
Borderlands 4 Release Time and Date
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
1 hour ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
3 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I tried out the brand new KDE Linux distro, and it's already my favorite
Still using your ISP’s weak router? Get this TP-Link Wi-Fi 6 router that's an absolute beast as it drops to an all-time low price
3 reasons why Obsidian seems intimidating, and why you shouldn't worry
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.