GTA 6 hype mounts as Rockstar starts working with fans
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
NoPixel has been a community-led effort, but now Rockstar's getting involved
Looks like Rockstar's getting ahead of GTA 6 role-playing
By
Patricia Hernandez
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Your favorite Dropout comedians return in Make Some Noise season 4 next month
3 days ago
I really need Dan Da Dan season 3 to not start with graphic violence
3 days ago
Silent Hill f review: A beautiful, terrifying, and sometimes torturous new hope for the franchise
4 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Rockstar Games
One of the many things that's allowed Grand Theft Auto Online to have such an enduring cultural impact is its role-playing community, where fans take it upon themselves to write unique storylines for audiences on Twitch. This is how you end up with GTA Online bikers who put on car shows, people pretending to be in-game serial killers, or fans who live out what it's like to have an ordinary job in the world of Los Santos. The critical thing here is that, while GTA Online provides the scaffolding for all of this GTARP, the phenomenon has largely been pushed forward by fans, not Rockstar. That might be about to change with Grand Theft Auto 6. Today, NoPixel Studios announced that it would soon unveil "nopixel V," the latest version of the platform used for private servers hosting role-playing communities. While no specifics about what nopixel V would entail were shared, the studio noted that this version of it was made in collaboration with Rockstar Games. The tool will be available straight from the Rockstar Launcher, the proprietary login necessary to play games like GTA Online. And this collaboration is happening less than a year before GTA 6 is due to hit shelves. Even if you've heard of NoPixel, it might be difficult to wrap your head around what it actually is. Since the platform exists on private servers, the proprietors can fiddle with how the experience functions for everyone on that server. The result is that anyone playing on NoPixel is not playing the same version of GTA Online that most people do. For example, nopixel 3.0 introduced features like improved lighting, additional interiors, advanced driving mechanics, and new areas. All of these adjustments are made with role-playing in mind. For instance, a reworked interior for a store might expand the backroom areas to allow players to realistically improv what it might be like to work a retail job. In an actual job, you might take a break outside the view of the public, or you might be called into your boss's office. To go alongside such features, NoPixel also offers a wide variety of props you can't find in the base game. If you want to pretend you're a weed grower as a part of a larger criminal enterprise, well, nopixel's props get granular enough that you can interact with different plant varieties and tools for indoor and outdoor growing. Even basic things like health are different in nopixel, as players can get injured in more specific ways than they would in GTA Online. The players themselves also uphold rules that don't apply in the real game, like behaving realistically if their life is in danger or not killing people randomly. This type of attention to detail is also part of why GTA Online was the most-watched game on Twitch in 2024 despite being over a decade old. It's fun to watch, and for the Twitch streamers involved, it's fun to put together. People take it seriously enough that the Streamer Awards have a category for best role-play. Mind you, much of this has been achieved through the help of volunteers and nopixel's owner, Koil. One can only wonder what might be possible with the official support of the people who know the game best and how that might be impacted by whatever GTA 6 brings. Prior to this, nopixel existed in a grey area where it arguably violated Rockstar's terms of service, which makes the collaboration doubly surprising. But when GTA's longevity is tied to its hardcore community, perhaps attitudes around modding are shifting inside Take-Two, Rockstar's parent company. The extent to which Rockstar is involved beyond offering technical support is also an open question, especially if nopixel is integrated into its base product. Already, Rockstar has banned none other than T-Pain from participating in role-playing servers due to the fact he's working on GTA 6. Free him!!! For now, we know that nopixel V will involve Twitch streamers like Valkyrae and Squeex, and the developers are still in the process of inviting more people into the fold.
News
PC
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
polygon_user_m5lxfco5
polygon_user_m5lxfco5
polygon_user_m5lxfco5
#JR939796
Member since 2025-01-06
80
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
surprise! everything you can role play now costs $20
2025-09-24 01:04:40
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
What Michael Rooker's multiple roles in the DCU mean for the canon
3 days ago
These games moved out of Silksong’s way — and right into Hades 2
3 days ago
Julia Fox shot an alternate ending for Him, and has opinions on what could have come next
2 days ago
I need these new Over the Garden Wall collectibles from Mondo in my life ASAP
More from our brands
Best Local Co-Op & Split-Screen Games On Xbox Game Pass
Best Crossplay Games On Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
40 Best Cross-Platform Games To Play Right Now, Ranked
The Best Multiplayer Games on Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
GTA 6’s Trailer 3 Needs to Play the Ace It’s Been Keeping Up Its Sleeve
If Reports Are to Be Believed, a GTA 6 Killer May Already Be in the Works
GTA 6 Launch: Everything We Know So Far
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Silent Hill f's content warning should be taken very, very seriously
Crunchyroll's new manga app could revolutionize the market
It's official, March 2026 has too many new video games
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.