TurboTax Review 2025: A Top Tax-Filing Option for Most Filers - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET Money
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners. Review CNET's ethics statement.
Money
TurboTax Review 2025: A Top Tax-Filing Option for Most Filers
This software still works best for taxpayers that have relatively simple returns. Otherwise, it can get pricey.
Article updated on April 14, 2025 at 12:40 PM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Danni Santana
Written by
Kim Porter
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Danni Santana Former Staff Editor Danni Santana spent nine years as an editor and business journalist covering industries including sports, retail, restaurants, and personal finance.
He is a graduate of the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at CUNY. His biggest loves outside of the newsroom are running, cooking, playing video games and collecting sneakers.
See full bio
Kim Porter Contributor Kim Porter is a freelance personal finance writer. She has written about personal finance topics for AARP Magazine, Bankrate, Credit Karma, NextAdvisor, U.S. News & World Report, Reviewed, Credit Karma and more. When she's not writing, you can find her training for her next race, reading, or planning her next big trip.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
TurboTax/CNET
Table of Contents
TurboTax Review 2025: A Top Tax-Filing Option for Most Filers
TurboTax
Who should use TurboTax?
How much does TurboTax cost?
TurboTax Products, compared
What's it like to use TurboTax this year?
Are TurboTax Live Assisted and Full Service worth the cost?
Other notable features
Is TurboTax right for me?
TurboTax's interface guides you through the tax filing process like no other software we've tested, making it an editor's choice pick this year.The popular online tax filing service works best for taxpayers who are completing simple tax returns (W-2, student loan interest, some credits) on their own for free. However, it may be worth paying for a higher tier due to the intuitive user experience you'll receive.
This story is part of
Taxes 2025, CNET's coverage of the best tax software, tax tips and everything else you need to file your return and track your refund.
Keep in mind that the promotional pricing period for TurboTax is over as of April 1. You'll now have to pay the full rate to file your taxes with this service. TurboTax is the most expensive tax-filing software we test at CNET.On the plus side, TurboTax’s guidance, free information and hand-holding capability offers tons of value. TurboTax also continues to invest in AI to automate filing your tax return and catch mistakes in real time. That said, it's worth checking out other tax filing options if you need to file multiple state returns or are self-employed and want to save a few dollars. TurboTax See at TurboTax What we like
Intuitive user interface Fast filing process Helpful Q&A style format guides you through each section Integrations with accounting software What we don't like
More expensive than competitors State filing costs extra (per state) Only filers with simple returns may qualify to file for free No brick-and-mortar locations for assistanceWho should use TurboTax?TurboTax is a great choice for a wide range of tax filers -- particularly students and adults with simple tax returns who can take advantage of TurboTax Free Edition (Note: 37% of taxpayers qualify for TurboTax Free Edition; simple form 1040 returns only with no schedules except for the earned income tax credit, child tax credit and student loan interest).If you have a more complicated tax situation, TurboTax still works well, but it gets more expensive. Want to claim housing deductions? Did you donate to charity? This will push you up to the Deluxe tier. Earned rental income or selling stocks will catapult you to TurboTax’s Premium tier. For some, TurboTax's industry-leading software will be worth the price because it's better than manually entering tax information for each form on most other services. But there are ways to make your taxes more affordable.Since TurboTax charges $64 per state tax return, if you worked in one state and lived in another in 2024, a company like Jackson Hewitt, which offers a $25 flat-fee federal and unlimited state returns option, may be a better choice. And if you're self-employed, TaxSlayer could save you money.How much does TurboTax cost?TurboTax online offers three tiers for online tax filing -- TurboTax Free Edition, Deluxe and Premium. TurboTax currently charges $79 for Deluxe and $139 for Premium federal filing. State returns cost $64 each with either tier.TurboTax also offers two additional levels for taxpayers who want help in filing their return. TurboTax Live Assisted uses AI to pair you with a tax expert based on your tax situation, while TurboTax Live Full Service lets you hand over your tax documents to a tax pro who will prepare your taxes for you. TurboTax's tax experts can handle all kinds of tax situations and are up to date on all tax laws, including crypto and the latest credits, according to the company.TurboTax Free Edition: Best for students and filers with  simple returns A simple tax return covers a W-2 and limited interest and dividend income (forms 1099-DIV and 1099-INT for earnings under $1,500), student loan interest (1098-E) and other tax credits. With Free Edition, you can also claim the standard deduction, earned income tax credit and the child tax credit.Basic returns, however, don't include itemized deductions, so you'll have to stick to a simple 1040 return (no Schedule A). Earnings from rental property, freelance and gambling winnings are also not covered.If you don’t qualify to file for free with TurboTax, it’s worth checking to see if you’re eligible to file for free through IRS Free File or another option, such as H&R Block Free Edition or FreeTaxUSA for federal filing only.Disclaimer: Not all taxpayers qualify to file for free. About 37% of taxpayers qualify. Form 1040 and limited credits only. Learn more at TurboTax.Deluxe: Best for maximizing deductions and creditsIf you qualify for credits or deductions not covered in the lower tier, it could be worthwhile to upgrade to Deluxe. At the time of publishing, TurboTax is charging $79 under promotional pricing for Deluxe for federal returns and $64 for each state return.The Deluxe tier includes everything in the Basic version but also searches for more than 350 tax deductions and credits to find tax breaks that you qualify for. That makes it a good option if you had unemployment income, paid mortgage interest, contributed to a health savings account or had childcare expenses in 2024. Premium: Best for investors, freelancers and business owners TurboTax’s Premium tier caters to freelancers, investors and filers with rental income. The tier currently costs $139 for a federal return and $64 per state return.This filing option allows freelancers, contractors and small business owners to report personal and business income and expenses, along with investment and rental property earnings. Even if you have a salaried job, if you did any freelance work in 2024, you’ll need to pay for this edition if you want to claim certain business deductions. While all versions of TurboTax include an audit support guarantee, it’s particularly helpful for freelancers and self-employed workers. If the IRS audits your tax return, you can request assistance from a tax professional through TurboTax’s audit support center.TurboTax Products, comparedBest for Product Federal State* TurboTax Live Assisted TurboTax Live Full Service Students and simple 1040 returns Free Edition $0 $0 $79 federal; $59 state.  Starting at $129 federal; $69 per state.  Maximizing tax deductions and credits Deluxe $74 $64 $129 federal; $69 state Starting at $189 federal; $69 per state.  Crypto, investing, real estate income, self-employed Premium $139 $64 $209 federal; $69 per state Starting at $269 federal; $69 per state. If self-employed: starting at $349 federal; $69 per state.*Pricing is per state return.What's it like to use TurboTax this year?New and returning TurboTax customers will be asked to answer a few questions about their tax situation and how much help they'll need from an expert to file this year. In most cases, the DIY option works best, unless you have a really complicated tax situation. TurboTax will then create a personalized checklist of tax forms you'll need to file an accurate return.This year marks the second tax filing season for TurboTax with Intuit Assist, its generative AI assistant also available on QuickBooks. The technology still works mostly in the background in year two by checking for errors in real time and analyzing uploaded documents. Due to TurboTax's commitment to AI, a majority of tax forms needed to report income and eligible deductions can be autofilled on your tax return by uploading a file or snapping a photo. Some forms, like 1099-DIV and 1099-INT, can be added by linking directly to your bank or brokerage account.  But there are still some exceptions. Tax forms 1099-K and 1099-NEC will require side hustlers and freelancers to input data manually, according to my tests. The same goes for reporting your rental property earnings and expenses on Schedule E.Using TurboTax remains a breeze because it holds your hand through the entire tax filing process. And its interactive software makes filing taxes, dare I say, fun? But as frequent users can attest, you'll definitely field numerous pitches asking you to upgrade to a tier or add an ancillary service you likely won't need. TurboTax, like many of its competitors, guarantees your taxes will be done accurately, no matter how you file. Upgrading and downgradingWhile testing on a personal account, TurboTax offered me the chance to upgrade to TurboTax Live Assist and TurboTax Full Service. It also pitched me on round-the-clock protection "Max Benefits" package that included full audit protection, priority customer service and, weirdly enough, identity theft protection through IDNotify that lasts about one year. If you start on the Deluxe or Premium tier and want to downgrade to the Free Edition, click on "switch products" on the left side navigation bar. You can't downgrade from Premium to Deluxe, however. Instead, I found that you'll need to downgrade to Free Edition first and then upgrade to Deluxe. It's an extra step, but you do not lose any of your saved data by doing this. You could, however, save yourself some cash if you qualify for a lower tier. You can upgrade to TurboTax Live Assisted or TurboTax Live Full Service at any time during the tax filing process by clicking "Switch Products" followed by "Upgrade" on the left side of your screen.If you change your mind and want to file DIY or with Live Assisted, click "Do my own taxes" on the same left-side menu to opt out of Full Service. (Note: You can do this only after choosing your tax expert.) By default, you'll be downgraded to the Live Assisted option, but you should be able to downgrade to DIY filing again when you reach the checkout screen, according to TurboTax. Here's how you do that.Price transparencyWhat I do appreciate about TurboTax this year is how noticeably transparent the service is with its pricing as you work on your return. When you add a form to your return not covered by Free Edition or Deluxe, the software immediately tells you to upgrade to the next tier to file an accurate return.You can also check in on your costs throughout the filing process in two ways. You can either click on "price preview" at the top right of the screen while logged in or go to the left-hand navigation bar and click "tax tools" followed by "tools" and "my fees." TurboTax has been scrutinized by the Federal Trade Commission about its lack of price transparency in the past -- including accusations that the service used deceptive marketing to trick customers into believing they could file their taxes for free when, in fact, they didn't qualify. This resulted in customers paying to file their taxes on the platform. Pro tip If you choose to file with TurboTax this year and have to pay to file your taxes, you can combat this somewhat by looking for rebate offers on your credit cards. Both American Express and Chase are again offering me cash back if I use my credit card to pay for TurboTax’s services this year (terms apply).Are TurboTax Live Assisted and Full Service worth the cost?If you’re comfortable doing your own taxes, you probably won't need TurboTax’s expert help -- and can ignore software suggestions for you to pay for ease of mind or a hands-free experience. TurboTax's best attribute is its intuitiveness. Answers to your common tax questions are very accessible and are easy to understand. For example, TurboTax will often tell you where you can find the information it needs from you on a tax form. This makes the added Live Assisted option, where you can ask an expert questions and have them review your return at the end, mostly unnecessary. If you're interested in TurboTax Live Full Service, where you send your tax documents to a tax preparer, we recommend comparing the cost of a local tax expert against TurboTax's offering to determine which makes sense for you. Other notable featuresTurboTax's help and information are great and give you the confidence to file your taxes accurately on your own. You can access help guides by clicking "search" at the top right of the screen. That will spawn a pop-up panel on the right side of the screen where you can ask questions or click on frequently asked questions that will update depending on what part of your return you're on. I find this feature to be invaluable for new DIY filers. Even if you're not logged in to your TurboTax account, the company has a list of resources and articles available for free to the public, including a tax refund calculator and crypto tax calculator.TurboTax also supports filing your taxes in Spanish. However, at the time of this review, TurboTax is still translating some of its pages to Spanish, so filers may see some pages in English. The mobile app experience is also quite good. While I’m not a fan of handling financial matters on mobile -- for both personal and practical reasons -- TurboTax makes it easy. It’s a bit harder to read the additional information given the smaller screen, but you can still follow along with TurboTax’s interview-based approach on a limited interface.This year, you can receive your tax refund in a few ways through TurboTax:Direct deposit into your checking, savings, brokerage or IRA accountA paper check in the mailUS Savings BondsA credit for next year's taxesTurboTax is again offering refund advance loans this year of up to $4,000 within minutes after your return is accepted by the IRS. Refund advance loans are offered by First Century Bank, NA or WebBank.Read more: Yes, You Can Get Up to $4,000 Now With a Tax Refund Advance -- but It's RiskyIs TurboTax right for me?If you want to get your taxes done quickly with as little headache as possible, TurboTax is a top choice. The way TurboTax's software holds your hand through the tax-filing process is unmatched. That said, there are cheaper options available to you if you plan to deduct freelance expenses or need to file multiple state returns. My advice is to file your taxes as early as possible so that you can take advantage of promotional rates.The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and isn’t influenced by advertising or partnerships. It hasn’t been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners.
Recommended Articles
Best Tax Software 2025: 1 Day Left to File Your Taxes
How to File Your Income Taxes for Free by Tomorrow
H&amp;R Block Review 2025: Great Live Tax Help and Free Tier
FreeTaxUSA 2025 Review: A Cheap Way to File Your Federal and State Taxes
About the Author
Danni Santana Former Staff Editor Danni Santana Former Staff Editor
Danni Santana spent nine years as an editor and business journalist covering industries including sports, retail, restaurants, and personal finance.
He is a graduate of the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at CUNY. His biggest loves outside of the newsroom are running, cooking, playing video games and collecting sneakers.
Read full bio
Also written by
Kim Porter Contributor
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.