The Art of Star Wars: A New Hope—The Manga gets a stunning new edition
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Star Wars
Star Wars: A New Hope gets a manga reimagining, available now on Kickstarter ahead of its Summer 2026 release
28 years later, this award-winning Star Wars manga is getting a gorgeous new edition
By
Isaac Rouse
Published Sep 16, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
3 Game Pass games we're playing this weekend (Sept. 12-14)
Sep 12, 2025
The Nintendo Switch 2's year-one game lineup keeps getting stranger
Sep 13, 2025
The stunning brilliance of Silksong's Hornet hover
Sep 13, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Lucasfilm Ltd.
In 1997, mangaka Hisao Tamaki attempted to capture the spirit of Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope by reimagining the landmark motion picture through the lens of manga. The result was a bold, unforgettable adaptation that ultimately earned Tamaki the prestigious Eisner Award for Best U.S. Edition of Foreign Material. Now, nearly three decades later, Dark Horse Comics and Lucasfilm present a Kickstarter campaign for The Art of Star Wars: A New Hope—The Manga, a deluxe book that showcases Tamaki’s original, never-before-seen art boards. Dark Horse has meticulously scanned and assembled Tamaki-sensei’s original art boards to chronicle and showcase the creation of a unique artifact of pop culture. Remembering the project’s beginnings, Tamaki said, “The editor in charge of the project [at the time…] asked, ‘Would you like to draw Star Wars?’ and with zero hesitation or second thought, I responded, ‘A New Hope? Absolutely!’ I have to draw Star Wars.”
A retail edition arrives in Summer 2026, but fans can secure exclusive Kickstarter-only editions–and receive them before retail release by supporting now. The book is available through Kickstarter in multiple deluxe editions, including:
The Collector’s Edition is a two-volume hardcover set presenting Tamaki’s artwork in high resolution, with Kickstarter-exclusive cover and a new English translation that’s taken directly from Tamaki’s handwritten Japanese text. This edition is perfect for fans looking to read the masterful adaptation for the first time, with the new translation included in the margins to preserve the original Japanese lettering. The books are printed on archival-quality stock to showcase Tamaki’s intricate linework and rich tones. While a retail version featuring a different cover will be available in 2026, the Kickstarter-exclusive Collector’s Edition features exclusive designs distinguished by bold use of blue and red —a visual nod to the light and dark sides of the Force, as well as special treatments that will not be offered anywhere else.
The Collector’s Edition - Tamaki Variant is a minimalist, art-forward reinterpretation of the Collector’s Edition, limited to 260 sets.
The Collector’s Edition + Slipcase. The complete two-volume Collector’s Edition, presented with a custom black slipcase.
Deluxe Signed Collector’s Edition. An extremely limited version of the Collector’s Edition—only 250 sets will be produced exclusively for Kickstarter backers.
The Masterpiece Edition is a large-format, premium release that faithfully presents Hisao Tamaki’s original work, with high-resolution reproductions of his unaltered art at its original size—10.85” x 15.05”. Collected in a faux-leather clamshell case, the two 176-page volumes of this edition are accompanied by a separate 104-page companion book that contains a new translation of the authentic Japanese lettering, which itself was inspired by the alternate language dub of the film that has been enjoyed by Japanese-speaking audiences for generations. The Masterpiece Edition format is only available through Kickstarter and will not be produced for retail.
The Signed Masterpiece Edition, a definitive version of the Masterpiece Edition featuring special enhancements, limited to only 250 sets worldwide.
The Signed Darth Vader Masterpiece Edition (Limited to 25), the rarest edition of the campaign, limited to only 25 sets worldwide to backers, combining the full Masterpiece Edition with exclusive Darth Vader-inspired features.
As part of the Kickstarter, collectors can also pick up the Tamaki Art Print Set, a curated selection of six standout pages from Star Wars: A New Hope—The Manga. Though originally drawn in black and white, each print has been faithfully reproduced in full color, highlighting every detail, from pencil strokes and paste-ups to editorial notes and even the natural aging of the paper. For those looking for something more expansive, the campaign also offers the Tamaki Art Triptych Folio, a large-format, three-panel set designed to match the height of the Masterpiece Edition and featuring two complete triptych print collections. The standard edition of The Art of Star Wars: A New Hope — The Manga is slated to hit comic shops and bookstores in summer 2026. But fans eager to secure Kickstarter-exclusive editions — and get them ahead of the retail release — can do so by backing the campaign.
Star Wars
Manga
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
John
John
John
#MA716524
Member since 2025-09-19
4
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
They seriously need to adapt this manga into a series on Disney+. I am aware we already have the movie, but to have an Anime adaptation of the original trilogy and, maybe, the prequels would be a great way to introduce newer fans to Star Wars as well as bring in fans of the Anime episodes of Visions.
2025-09-20 09:34:41
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 14, 2025
A hit RPG made me rethink everything about 'weak' D&D monsters
Sep 13, 2025
Mark Hamill's best recent movie has nothing to do with Stephen King
Sep 13, 2025
The 8 best Metroidvania game to play after Silksong
Sep 15, 2025
Dear RPG devs, please let me back into your character creator
More from our brands
The Greatest Isekai Anime Of All Time (April 2025)
Pokemon TCG: The Best Full Art Cards, Ranked By Artwork
The Greatest Fantasy Anime Of All Time, Ranked (April 2025)
The 40 Best Isekai Anime Streaming on Crunchyroll
42 Greatest R-Rated Adult Anime Series of All Time
Every New Isekai Anime Announced For 2025 (So Far)
Best Anime With Overpowered Main Characters, Ranked
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Hades 2 overcomplicates a perfect formula
I hate to say it but Avatar has replaced Star Wars in my heart
Waiting a year to play Hades 2 was absolutely the right call
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.