Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
15 September 2025
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
As the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory, scientists are planning the next generation of observatories. Plus, octopuses favour different arms for different tasks and what’s on the agenda at the upcoming meeting of US health secretary Robert F Kennedy Jr’s upcoming vaccine panel.
By
Flora Graham
Flora Graham
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO) facility, in Hanford, Washington.Credit: IMAGO/Xinhua via AlamyLIGO at 10: the discovery machineIn 2015, a continent-spanning pair of detectors — the twin facilities of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO), in the US states of Washington and Louisiana — first detected gravitational waves. These ripples in space-time originated more than a billion years ago in the cataclysmic merger of two distant black holes. Now, scientists are planning the next generation of observatories, such as the proposed Einstein Telescope in Europe, that could spot gravitational waves from anywhere across the observable Universe.Nature | 6 min readMeet Europe’s first exascale supercomputerA European supercomputer called JUPITER has reached a processing milestone — one quintillion operations a second — and done it completely on renewable power. JUPITER is the fourth-fastest computer in the world and ranks first in energy efficiency among supercomputers. Its role is to push the capabilities of research in areas such as weather modelling, astrophysics and biomedical research — and to keep Europe in the running in the race to innovate in artificial intelligence.Nature | 5 min readRFK Jr vaccine panel: what to watchThe panel of top advisers who recommend how vaccines are used in the United States is about to meet: its second gathering since US health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr abruptly fired all of its previous 17 members and welcomed 7 new ones — several of whom share his anti-vaccine views. The agenda is unusually thin on details, but COVID-19 vaccines, measles jabs and hepatitis B vaccines for newborns are on the menu.Nature | 5 min readI have 8 arms but these are my favouritesResearchers scrupulously categorized the myriad manoeuvres that wild octopuses make with their arms to build a visual catalogue of movements. They captured nearly 4,000 gropes, grasps, tiptoes and other actions in 25 Octopus vulgaris and closely related species from the Caribbean and Spain. Though each arm can do everything, researchers observed that the animals tended to favour their front arms for exploring and their back arms for locomotion — though there was no evidence that they were left- or right-handed, as suggested by other research.The New York Times | 5 min readReference: Scientific Reports paperFeatures & opinionHeroes or hoarders?Science historian James Delbourgo’s A Noble Madness is an “illuminating and entertaining history” of the ‘dark side’ of humanity’s desire to collect things, says science writer Andrew Robinson in his review. Through case studies of historical collectors, such as entrepreneur Henry Wellcome and naturalist Hans Sloane, Debourgo explores what drives people to collect and their often dubious and exploitative means. Curiosity — whether scientific, historical or otherwise — is a large motivator, but so too is obsession, which can verge on pathological.Nature | 7 min readEnvironmental justice is about everyone“I put him on the Mount Rushmore of environmental justice,” says health scientist Sacoby Wilson about Charles Lee, who has spent his career working at the intersection of civil rights and environmentalism. After 26 years, Lee has left the US Environmental Protection Agency, which is under fire from the administration of US President Donald Trump. But he says he has plenty of fight, and hope, left in him. “One legacy of environmental justice is that the movement does not depend on whether you have the support of the federal government,” says Lee. “It is driven by people, it is not driven by an executive order.”Inside Climate News | 19 min read (free reg required)Where I workNaailah Ali is a food technologist at the University of the West Indies’ Cocoa Research Centre in St Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.Credit: Kelly-Ann Bobb for NatureFood technologist Naailah Ali’s research focuses on the fermentation of cacao beans in Trinidad and Tobago. She aims to develop techniques that farmers can use to improve the process, a step in making cocoa and chocolate. The success of fermentation depends on climate,” she says. “And with weather patterns becoming less predictable, the quality of the beans has started to decline.” (Nature | 3 min read)Quote of the day“Currently, the web is lacking in compassion, but this is not a human failing. This is a design issue.”The algorithms that make social media so compelling have harmful consequences and should be regulated, argues computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee, who invented the World Wide Web. (The Standard | 4 min read)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03010-xOn Friday, Leif Penguinson was chilling out at the Sally May Recreation Site on Fossil Creek just north of Phoenix, Arizona. Did you find the penguin? When you’re ready, here’s the answer.Thanks for reading,Flora Graham, senior editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Jacob Smith• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Daily briefing: Regenerative revolution aims to future-proof European agriculture
Daily briefing: A polo-team’s worth of cloned CRISPR horses
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Daily briefing: Regenerative revolution aims to future-proof European agriculture
Daily briefing: A polo-team’s worth of cloned CRISPR horses
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited