Waymo Is Launching Robotaxis With Uber Rival Lyft - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Transportation
Waymo is launching robotaxis with Uber rival Lyft
By
Lloyd Lee
Waymo partnered with Lyft in 2017 and now plans to bring robotaxis to Nashville using the Uber rival's platform.
Patrick T. Fallon/AFP via Getty Images
2025-09-17T13:00:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Waymo plans to deploy robotaxis in Nashville with Lyft's platform by next year.
It's the most expansive step in the two companies' eight-year-old partnership.
Waymo has also partnered with Lyft's biggest rival, Uber, to launch robotaxis.
The teams are starting to form.
Waymo will soon have its robotaxis on the road operated by rivals Lyft and Uber as part of Alphabet company's strategy to bring more self-driving cars to the masses.Waymo said Wednesday it will initially provide rides in Nashville through its proprietary app. As the service expands, riders will be able to match with a fully autonomous Waymo on the Lyft app.
In its announcement, Waymo said Lyft will oversee vehicle maintenance and depot operations through the ride-hailing company's subsidiary Flexdrive. Flexdrive is a rental-car and fleet management company acquired by Lyft in 2020.Lyft's share price was up 20% in premarket trading following the announcement.A spokesperson for Waymo did not say how many robotaxis would be deployed for the Nashville launch. The company currently has around 2,000 robotaxis on the roads in multiple US cities.
Waymo will scale the Nashville fleet to "hundreds of vehicles," the spokesperson said, but didn't give a specific timeline.The move comes eight years after Waymo first partnered with the Uber rival in 2017.In 2019, Waymo conducted a pilot program in Phoenix, deploying about 10 robotaxis on the Lyft platform.
"This was a great building block for the multi-year, strategic partnership we've now launched with Lyft in Nashville, where Waymo's marketplace and operations software will dispatch our AVs for requested rides on the Waymo app, and as we expand together, matched rides on the Lyft app," a Waymo spokesperson told Business Insider of the pilot program.Waymo's partnership strategyWaymo has a similar relationship with Uber in Austin, where the ride-hailing company manages about 100 Waymo robotaxis. Unlike the Nashville launch, Austin riders cannot hail a robotaxi through Waymo's app.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Waymo's decision to launch robotaxis through Uber and Lyft provides a look at how the company wants to bring self-driving cars to the masses, leveraging an existing rider base that competing companies have built for more than a decade.
Gil Luria, a tech analyst for D.A. Davidson, told Business Insider that the "self-driving arena" has three parts: making a car, making a driver or the software, and then connecting the driver to passengers."Waymo is ahead of the curve, arguably by far, in terms of having the best driver," Luria said. "So it's their incentive to get that driver deployed as broadly as possible, and that includes trying to do that through existing service providers."By working with Uber and Lyft, Waymo also doesn't become too beholden to one provider, Luria said, adding that the main risk for Waymo is that it "surrenders control over the consumer relationship."
Uber and Lyft have also sought their own deals to bring autonomous cars to their platforms without Waymo.This month, Lyft launched a limited robotaxi service with May Mobility, a Michigan-based startup. The service uses a fleet of Toyota Sienna minivans and in-car safety operators.Meanwhile, Uber also announced this month a $300 million investment in Lucid, the EV automaker, to bring robotaxis to its platform.
"Uber aims to deploy 20,000 or more Lucid vehicles through the program over six years," Lucid said in a press release.Spokespeople for Uber and Lyft did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Recommended video
Waymo
Uber
Lyft
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account