Best early October Prime Day Anker deals 2025: All-time-low prices on power banks, chargers, and more | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Energy
Power banks and batteries
Best early Amazon Prime Day Anker deals 2025: I'm tracking my favorite discounts ahead of October
Prime Day is still two weeks away, but here are some of the best early Prime Day deals I've found on top-quality power banks and chargers from Anker.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:14 a.m. PT
Anker Nano 10,000 mAh power bank | for $50 (save $10)
Anker Nano 10,000 mAh power bank
for $50 (save $10)
View now View at Amazon Anker Solix C300 DC portable power station | for $150 (save $100)
Anker Solix C300 DC portable power station
for $150 (save $100)
View now View at Amazon Anker SOLIX C1000 portable power station | for $429 (save $370)
Anker SOLIX C1000 portable power station
for $429 (save $370)
View now View at Amazon Anker Prime Charger, 200W 6-Port GaN Charging Station | for $55 (save $8)
Anker Prime Charger, 200W 6-Port GaN Charging Station
for $55 (save $8)
View now View at Amazon Anker MagGo 10,000mAh MagSafe charger | for $62 (save $78)
Anker MagGo 10,000mAh MagSafe charger
for $62 (save $78)
View now View at Amazon
Anker Nano Power Bank, Qi2 Certified Ultra-Slim 5,000mAh Magnetic Battery Pack | for $46 (save $10)
Anker Nano Power Bank, Qi2 Certified Ultra-Slim 5,000mAh Magnetic Battery Pack
for $46 (save $10)
View now View at Amazon
Show more (1 item)
Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale, otherwise known as October Prime Day, is now less than two weeks away. This time around it runs Oct. 7-8, and you can once again expect to be bombarded by some great deals on everything from power banks and chargers to cables and gadgets.Also: The best October Prime Day deals live nowI review hundreds of power banks and chargers every year, putting them through a wide range of tests, including lab tests along with real-world testing, and Anker always comes out as a top brand for quality and value for money. These are my favorite early October Prime Day Anker deals.Find Prime Day dealsMy favorite Anker deals ahead of October Prime Day 2025
Anker Nano 10,000 mAh power bank for $50 (save $10)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $50 (17% off)Original price: $60The Anker Nano offers everything that most people want from their power bank, and it is the power bank that I recommend to people who say they "just want a good power bank." It offers decent to top up a smartphone during the day, it has both USB-A and USB-C ports so you're covered for all eventualities, and there's even a built-in USB-C cable, so you can't forget it.Review: This Anker Nano has become my everyday power bank - here's why
Show more
View now at Amazon
Also: The best power banks you can buy in 2025
Anker Solix C300 DC portable power station for $150 (save $100)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $150 (40% off)Original price: $250Let's cut straight to the exciting part of this unit -- you can charge the Solix C300 DC using two 140W USB-C inputs, delivering a maximum of 280W of power. This can take the unit from flat to 80% in just an hour. If you only have a short time with some AC power, this can be a game-changer, allowing you to charge the unit in half the time it might otherwise take. Review: My favorite portable power station for traveling can charge any device
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker SOLIX C1000 portable power station for $429 (save $370)
Anker/ZDNET
Current price: $429 (46% off)Original price: $799The Solix C1000, at its heart, is a power beast, stuffed with durable LiFePO4 batteries that can stash a whopping 1,058Wh of power. Plus, it's got 11 ports ready to charge up all your gadgets. It's like the Goldilocks of power stations. But where the Solix C1000 really shines is that is has a whopping six AC outlets on the front, which makes it perfect for situations where you need to power a lot of things.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker Prime Charger, 200W 6-Port GaN Charging Station for $55 (save $8)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $56 (11% off)Original price: $63The Anker 200W Prime 6-port charging station is a solid, powerful, well-made charger, and is perfect for those who need to power multiple devices. I particularly like that this charger can support dual 100W output on the USB-C ports, as this means it can power a couple of MacBooks Pros simultaneously. Review: One of the best GaN USB-C chargers I've tested can top up 6 devices at once
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker MagGo 10,000mAh MagSafe charger for $62 (save $78)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
Current price: $62 (22% off)Original price: $80A thin and light power bank to slap onto your MagSafe iPhone to give you a good few hours of extra runtime. This power bank can charge an iPhone 14 Pro, 15 Pro, or 16 Pro to 91% maximum capacity, which is a substantial runtime boost.Review: This Qi2 battery pack from Anker just made wireless charging essential for me
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker Nano Power Bank, Qi2 Certified Ultra-Slim 5,000mAh Magnetic Battery Pack for $46 (save $10)
Anker/ZDNET
Current price: $46 (16% off)Original price: $56A super-thin, super light Qi2 certified power bank that packs 5,000mAh of power capacity, more than enough to get you through the longest fo working days.
Show more
View now at Amazon
More October Prime Day Anker deals Include 5-10 bulleted deals here. They can be from Amazon or other retailers. Make sure the best deals on the best products are included in the listicles instead of here. Anker 521 Portable Power Station: $160 (save $40): Kitted out with six diverse ports -- 2 AC, 2 USB-A, 1 USB-C, and 1 car outlet -- this unit can caters to a wide range of charging requirements for electronics on the move or during a power outage.Anker SOLIX C1000 Portable Power Station with 400W Solar Panel: $899 (save $1,099): This is the perfect kit for those wanting to tap into the power of the sun when out and about. Great for camping and the occasional power outage. Anker Nano II 65W: $26 (save $15): The Anker Nano II 65W has the power you need to fast charge your phone, tablet, and USB-C notebook from a single charger.Anker Nano Charging Station, 7-in-1 USB-C Power Strip: $80 (save $10): A 7-in-1 charging station that's kitted out with three USB-C ports, one USB-A port, and three AC outlets to handle all your essentials at once.FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025?  Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale, otherwise known as October Prime Day, runs over Oct. 7 and 8, back to the usual two-day sale extravaganza, and not the four days that we saw back in July.
Are gadgets like chargers and power banks really cheaper on Prime Day?  I watch prices closely, and yes, I can say with absolute certainty that you can find lots of great deals during the Amazon Prime Day sales. In fact, I've found some absolute killer deals to share with you here in the run-up to the event.  How did we choose these October Prime Day deals? Here at ZDNET, I only write about deals that interest me -- the devices and gear I desire, need, or would recommend. I look for the best possible deal and seek out those things that are only occasionally on sale. I use established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops. I also pay attention to customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals I'm recommending. I'm one person testing one thing, so it's useful to get a broader sampling. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
Show more
What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget dealsOur top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Are portable solar power banks reliable in 2025? My buying advice after a year of testing
Anker issued a recall for five popular power banks back in June - here's the latest update
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use