Google's new open protocol secures AI agent transactions - and 60 companies already support it | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Google's new open protocol secures AI agent transactions - and 60 companies already support it
The Agent Payments Protocol aims to help consumers and businesses finally trust AI-enabled payments.
Written by
Sabrina Ortiz, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 6:00 a.m. PT
Hassel/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways Google announces Agent Payments Protocol (AP2). AP2 helps companies carry out agent-led payments securely.The protocol is launched with the support of more than 60 organizations. The next level of AI assistance in e-commerce is agent-led AI transactions, where your agent can place orders on your behalf, saving you time as a consumer and connecting your product to buyers if you're a merchant.Also: Gartner says add AI agents ASAP - or else. Oh, and they're also overhypedWhile the technology is promising, there are also security concerns because an agent has access to your payment details. To address those concerns, Google has launched its new Agent Payments Protocol (AP2), which the company describes as an "open protocol developed with leading payments and technology companies to securely initiate and transact agent-led payments across platforms." What is AP2? AP2 can be used as an extension of the Agent2Agent (A2A) protocol and the Model Context Protocol (MCP). Similar to how MCP allows users to connect AI tools to their databases with confidence, the AP2 standard lets users, merchants, and payment providers transact with AI agents securely.
Also: How Cisco plans to stop rogue AI agent attacks inside your networkFor example, Google said AP2, which helps verify that a user authorized an agent to act, validates to the merchant that the agent is performing the way the user requested, and, most importantly, helps identify accountability should the action not go according to plan, which is one of the biggest concerns when it comes to agents.
Also: 5 ways to be a great AI agent manager, according to business leadersAP2 supports various payment types, including credit cards, stablecoins, and real-time bank transfers, which serve as a single standard that agents and merchants can rely on for all transactions.
How does AP2 work? AP2 uses Mandates, which are tamper-proof, cryptographically signed digital contracts that contain proof of a user's intentions. Specifically, there is an Intent Mandate, where the user requests that the agent either find a product for them or purchase it on their behalf, and then a Cart Mandate, which allows the agent to carry out the transaction.
Also: A whopping 30% of business leaders are comfortable taking orders from AI agents - are you?In real-time purchases with a user present, after issuing an Intent Mandate to look for the product, the approval of the purchase is signed as a Cart Mandate.
Also: Your next job interviewer could be an AI agent - here's why that's a good thingIn delegated tasks, where a human isn't present, the human signs a detailed Intent Mandate upfront, with the specific rules of the engagement, such as price limits, which pre-authorize the agent to generate a Cart Mandate when the conditions are met. In either case, the Cart Mandate involves the user securely linking their payment details.
Looking forward
The AP2 launched with 60 organizations, including Accenture, Adobe, American Express, Coinbase, Confluent, Mastercard, Okta, PayPal, Salesforce, 1Password, and many more.
Also: What are AI agents? How to access a team of personalized assistantsFor other organizations that want to get started, Google has made the technical specifications, documentation, and reference implementations available on its public GitHub repository, which will be updated regularly with additional reference implementations from the tech company.
Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Gemini just aced the world's most elite coding competition - what it means for AGI
4 ways machines will automate your business - and it's no hype, says Gartner
These consumer-facing industries are the fastest adopters of AI agents
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use