The 12 Best Cooling Pillows of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Bed Accessories
Beat the Nightly Heat With the Best Cooling Pillows of 2025: Tested and Reviewed
As the heatwave rolls through, these cooling pillows might be the thing that saves your sleep quality.
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan. Expertise Sleep | Mattress Accessories | Vitamins and Supplements | Nutrition | Personal care Credentials Carl R. Greer/Andrew D. Hepburn Award for Best Nonfiction Essay (Miami University, 2020)
See full bio
Caroline Igo
June 26, 2025
6:00 a.m. PT 12 min read
Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology Best overall cooling pillow
$104 at Amazon
GhostPillow Gel Memory Foam Pillow Best affordable cooling pillow
$55 at Amazon
Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Pillow Best cooling memory foam pillow
$199 at Brooklyn Bedding
Nest Easy Breather Pillow Best cooling shredded foam pillow
$119 at Nest Bedding
Purple Harmony Best cooling latex pillow
$199 at Amazon
Bear Pillow Best cooling pillow for back sleepers
$125 at Bear Mattress
Layla Kapok Best cooling pillow for side sleepers
$109 at Layla
Cozy Earth Silk Pillow Best cooling pillow for stomach sleepers
$363 at Cozy Earth
Coop Eden Cool Plus Pillow Best adjustable cooling pillow
$105 at Coop
Birch Organic Pillow Best organic cooling pillow
$149 at Birch
Sleep Number True Temp Classic Pillow Best supporting cooling pillow
$110 at Sleep Number
Saatva Latex Pillow Best soft cooling pillow
$165 at Amazon
Nolah Adjustable Shredded Foam Pillow
$89 at Nolah
Brooklinen Marlow Pillow
$37 at Brooklinen
Lagoon Otter Pillow
$140 at Lagoon
Sijo Support Pillow
$94 at Sijo Home
Show more (11 items)
Table of Contents
Beat the Nightly Heat With the Best Cooling Pillows of 2025: Tested and Reviewed
The best overall cooling pillow
Best cooling pillows of 2025
How we tested the best cooling pillows
Other cooling pillows tested
Best cooling pillows compared
Caroline Igo/CNETThe heat dome that’s baking the central and eastern US is bringing the hottest temperatures we’ve seen this year. Hot sleeper or not, there’s a good chance you might be looking for some relief at night. When flipping pillows and rolling over to find a cool spot on the mattress doesn't work, you might need some cooling technology.A pillow designed with cooling technology can be a game changer, especially if its tech extends beyond a cooling cover into the pillow's stuffing or foam. To find the best one, I tested dozens, considering each pillow's cooling sensation, material, feel, firmness, sleeper type, price, size and different sleeping positions.The best overall cooling pillowThe Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology made the top of my list due to its high-quality materials, comfort and truly cool-to-the-touch feel. The innovative materials used in this pillow include Casper's unique Phase Change materials, HeatDelete bands and a CoolTouch Cover, all actively working to keep you cooler throughout the night. I tested 25 cooling pillows from 20 top brands; the 12 pillows that made this list are the best cooling pillows on the market. I also included a few honorable mentions that might work better for your particular sleep setup. Best cooling pillows of 2025
Caroline Igo/CNET
Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology
Best overall cooling pillow
$104 at Amazon
The Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology is the coolest pillow I have ever tested. That's why it takes my pick for the best overall cooling pillow. Not only is the machine-washable cover cool to the touch but the inside of the pillow is made with perforated poly foam, polyester fibers and gel. It uses what Casper calls Snow Technology, which has phase-change material that remains temperature-neutral around your head and neck and allows for airflow.  The pillow is soft yet supportive, and I like how my head sinks a little into the poly foam -- but not too far. In terms of firmness, I would say it is medium, and when you press your hand into the material, it returns to its original shape a bit faster than memory foam does. So no need for fluffing. The Casper Hybrid Pillow will support back, side and combination sleepers (those that switch between positions at night).Sleeping position(s): Back, side and combination Pros:Cool to the touch; coolest pillow I tested Soft, machine-washable cover Four layers of foam, fiber and gel with Snow Technology Cons:Over $100 for one pillowNot for those who don't like foam
$104 at Amazon
Caroline Igo/CNET
GhostPillow Gel Memory Foam Pillow
Best affordable cooling pillow
$55 at Amazon
GhostBed is known for its comfortable cooling mattress, and its cooling Gel Memory Foam Pillow is no different. It's made with a perforated gel memory foam core, a layer of phase-changing materials, an inner aerated mesh and a cover that's truly cool to the touch. I like how the pillow conforms to my head and neck and feels cool on my face. Compared to other cooling and memory foam pillows on the market, the GhostPillow Gel Memory Foam Pillow is very affordable -- and not to mention, most pillows that claim to be cooling aren't as cool to the touch as GhostBed's. I think it's a great value and can support back, side and combination sleepers.Sleeping position(s): Back, side and combination Pros:Cool to the touch Machine-washable coverAffordable; GhostBed often has sales Cons:Not for strict stomach sleepersCooling cover is only on one side
$55 at Amazon
Caroline Igo/CNET
Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Pillow
Best cooling memory foam pillow
$199 at Brooklyn Bedding
The Brooklyn Bedding Luxury Pillow isn't just the winner for the best cooling memory foam pillow -- it's also the best pillow for all sleeper types. There are two lofts available: high and low. A high loft is great for side sleepers, and a low loft is meant for back and stomach sleepers. Its hexagon-patterned cover is cool to the touch and can be removed and washed. The cover extends to the other side, but the hexagon side is the coldest. The memory foam itself is perforated, and the top is infused with copper. This natural mineral helps to fight against mold, allergens and dust mites. I'm a huge fan of memory foam, and I like that this Brooklyn Bedding pillow allows me to switch between sleeping positions comfortably. Also, Brooklyn Bedding often has deals, so you can usually grab this pillow for under $99.  Sleeping position(s): Stomach and combinationPros:Cool to the touch Machine-washable coverGreat for all sleeper types Cons:Over $100 for one pillowOn the thinner side
$199 at Brooklyn Bedding
Caroline Igo/CNET
Nest Easy Breather Pillow
Best cooling shredded foam pillow
$119 at Nest Bedding
The Nest Easy Breather is one of the more supportive pillows on this list. The cover is cool to the touch, and the pillow is filled with shredded foam. If the pillow arrives too firm or too high for you, simply remove some of the fillings and fluff it back up. When it was filled to its maximum, I found that it supported my neck and head from sinking into the surface -- which is great for side sleepers who don't like the sinking feeling of memory foam. I prefer the Nest Easy Breather to be a little less filled so I can comfortably switch from my side to my back. Also, I wouldn't consider this a comfortable pillow for strict stomach sleepers, so you may have to remove almost all the fill. Check out the best cooling pillow for stomach sleepers instead. Sleeping position(s): Back and sidePros:Cool to the touchMachine-washable cover Adjustable loft  Cons:Not for strict stomach sleepersNot for those who like to sink a little into pillows
$119 at Nest Bedding
Caroline Igo/CNET
Purple Harmony
Best cooling latex pillow
$199 at Amazon
$199 at Walmart
I consider the Purple Harmony pillow to be a mini-version of the Purple Mattress. Both products contain a GelFlex grid layer that's unique to Purple. This feature is flexible, supportive and slightly molding like memory foam. The Purple Harmony pillow also has a Talalay latex (a natural latex sourced from rubber trees) core that is perforated for airflow and won't trap your body heat. The machine-washable mesh cover is slightly cool to the touch but less cool than the Casper, GhostBed or Brooklyn Bedding pillows. With the Purple Harmony, its inside materials are more important and cooling than the cover. This pillow will support back and side sleepers comfortably.     Sleeping position(s): Back and side  Pros:Cool to the touchUnique honeycombed-pattern gridSoft, machine-washable cover Cons:ExpensiveNot everyone will like the latex-grid feel
$199 at Amazon
$199 at Walmart
Caroline Igo/CNET
Bear Pillow
Best cooling pillow for back sleepers
$125 at Bear Mattress
The Bear Pillow is another great pillow for back sleepers. Its cover is cool to the touch and made with what Bear calls Double Ice Fabric. At both ends of the pillow is a mesh that allows for more airflow. It's also hypoallergenic and helps to stop mold, bacteria and dust mites. At its core, the Bear Pillow is made with a hybrid foam, which I consider halfway between bouncy latex foam and slow molding memory foam. I think it's right down the middle of too firm and too soft. It's also supportive enough for both back and side sleepers.        It should be noted that you can't wash the Bear Pillow cover. Spot-clean only and use a light, breathable pillowcase.  Sleeping position(s): Back and sidePros:Cool to the touchHypoallergenicContains perforated, hybrid foam   Cons:Not for strict stomach sleepersNot for those who don't like the bouncy feel of latex foamExpensive at MSRP
$125 at Bear Mattress
Caroline Igo/CNET
Layla Kapok
Best cooling pillow for side sleepers
$109 at Layla
$109 at Amazon
If you're a side sleeper, you should look for a pillow that's high enough to keep your neck aligned during the night. It's best to avoid using a pillow so soft that your head sinks because you'll likely wake up with neck pain. The Layla Kapok is great for side sleepers because it's high and firm enough to keep you from overextending your neck. The pillow is filled with shredded memory foam for optimal airflow, and it can even be adjusted by taking out the filling. If you are a back sleeper, just take out a bit of the Layla Kapok pillow's filling, and it should be low and soft enough for you.The fibers used in this pillow are lighter and more ventilated than cotton or wool, giving it that cooling sensation. As a side sleeper, I especially like the feel of this pillow. I like to sink a little bit, which the Layla Kapok allows, but it's also supportive enough that I don't hurt my neck during the night.    Sleeping position(s): Back, side and combination Pros:Adjustable (remove filling to your liking)Plush and supportive Soft, machine-washable coverCons:Not cool to the touchNot for strict stomach sleepers
$109 at Layla
$109 at Amazon
Caroline Igo/CNET
Cozy Earth Silk Pillow
Best cooling pillow for stomach sleepers
$363 at Cozy Earth
Pillows for stomach sleepers are sometimes hard to come by. They must be supportive and low enough that you don't overextend your neck at night. The Cozy Earth Silk Pillow is a great example of a pillow that supports the neck and is low enough for strict stomach sleepers. Made of bamboo fabric and 100% mulberry silk, this Cozy Earth pillow uses the lightest and coolest materials to keep you from overheating at night. And you can feel it. I love how soft it feels to the touch. While the cover isn't cool like the Casper, GhostBed or Brooklyn Bedding pillows, the Cozy Earth Silk Pillow makes up for it with quality. Its premium materials prevent pilling, making the pillow last a long time. I think this pillow would also be comfortable for back and combination sleepers.    Sleeping position(s): Stomach and combination     Pros:Filling is 100% mulberry silkCover is 100% bamboo fabric Only made with breathable materials Cons:Not cool to the touchMost expensive
$363 at Cozy Earth
Caroline Igo/CNET
Coop Eden Cool Plus Pillow
Best adjustable cooling pillow
$105 at Coop
Coop Sleep Goods has recently become popular for its cooling products. Its Eden Pillow continues to top lists of cooling pillows, and if you thought that pillow was cool -- it got even better. The Coop Eden Cool Plus Pillow is the newer, cooler version of the Eden Pillow. This pillow has a similar cool-to-the-touch cover and now features a heat-wicking inner liner, a gel layer and shredded gel-infused memory foam. The filling is Greenguard Gold and CertiPur-US certified. One side claims to be cooler and firmer than the other, but I didn't feel that when testing.   One of the best features of this pillow is that it's adjustable. It comes with extra filling, as well as an option to pull the filling out. Make it as firm or soft, high or low as you desire. I filled mine with a little more than the way it came. I like that the memory foam contours and lets you sink a little into the pillow, regardless of how much you fill it.  Sleeping position(s): Back and sidePros:Cool to the touch Adjustable and hypoallergenic Machine-washable cover Cons:Not for strict stomach sleepersNot for those who don't like to sink a little into pillows
$105 at Coop
Caroline Igo/CNET
Birch Organic Pillow
Best organic cooling pillow
$149 at Birch
If you're conscientious about your bedding and where the material comes from, look no further than Birch. This brand is organic, eco-friendly and natural. Birch's Organic Pillow is made with a 100% organic GOTS-certified cotton cover, and while it isn't cool to the touch, it's breathable. The core is made of a 100% organic cotton outer layer filled with shredded latex. That core is then wrapped with 100% organic, GOTS-certified wool that helps to wick away moisture. I love that this pillow doesn't feel lumpy, and it would be very supportive for back and side sleepers.Sleeping position(s): Back and side     Pros:GOTS and Eco-Institut certifiedContains Fair Trade cottonAll materials are natural and organic Cons:Not cool to the touchOver $100 for one pillow
$149 at Birch
Caroline Igo/CNET
Sleep Number True Temp Classic Pillow
Best supporting cooling pillow
$110 at Sleep Number
The Sleep Number True Temp Pillow comes in three shapes: classic, contour and ultimate. I tested the classic for this review, which is best for back sleepers. If you're a side sleeper, I recommend the contour and all sleeper types should like the ultimate, as it can be customized to fit any sleeper. Regardless of the shape, the Sleep Number pillow is cool to the touch and contains 37.5 technology, which refers to material embedded with volcanic minerals that wick away moisture.The fill is 100% foam, and I think it feels like a poly foam that isn't too soft. It supports your head and neck without sinking too much into the foam.     Sleeping position(s): Back   Pros:Cool to the touchComes in classic, contour and ultimate shapesSoft, machine-washable cover Cons:Not for strict stomach sleepersSide sleepers should choose the contour shape
$110 at Sleep Number
Caroline Igo/CNET
Saatva Latex Pillow
Best soft cooling pillow
$165 at Amazon
The softest and thinnest pillow on this list belongs to the Saatva Latex Pillow. It's available in two lofts: standard and high. Back and stomach sleepers should go with the standard loft, while side and combination sleepers should choose the high loft. For this review, I tested the standard loft. This pillow reminds me of a luxury hotel pillow that isn't overstuffed with filling. It is made with a cotton cover (that isn't cool to the touch) and filled with certified organic cotton, plush, down-like fibers and a shredded natural latex core. The material is breathable and hypoallergenic, which fights bacteria, mold, mildew and dust mites. The cotton cover is also machine washable.
Sleeping position(s): Back, stomach, side and combinationPros:Shredded natural latex coreMachine-washable, Fair Trade Certified cotton coverAvailable in standard and high lofts Cons:Not cool to the touchNot for those who don't like thinner pillows
$165 at Amazon
How we tested the best cooling pillowsDuring my testing, I considered each pillow's cooling sensation, material, feel, firmness, sleeper type, price and size. I then slept on each pillow for one to two nights (in addition to daytime-lounging testing). I'm a side sleeper, but I also tried different sleeping positions with each cooling pillow to determine the most comfortable sleeping position. You won't find a pillow that will stay ice cold for the entire night (at least not yet), these cooling pillows contain temperature-neutral materials that won't retain any of your body heat. Some have a cool-to-touch feel that I've noted below, but be aware that the pillow won't feel that cool all night. It's worth mentioning that the pillowcase you use will affect the cooling sensation of any pillow. If you're a hot sleeper and use flannel or heavy material pillowcases, I suggest switching to silk, bamboo or cotton if you want the most out of your cooling pillow. Other cooling pillows tested
Caroline Igo/CNETHere are my honorable mentions. While these pillows didn't make my initial list, I still wanted to highlight these five for some of their cooling features. One of these pillows might work best for you.
Caroline Igo/CNET
Nolah Adjustable Shredded Foam Pillow
$89 at Nolah
The Nolah Adjustable Shredded Foam pillow is my favorite of the honorable mentions. This pillow is made of shredded foam that can be taken out and adjusted to your liking. Its cover is soft, machine-washable, and made of Oeko-Tex-certified bamboo blend fibers. The best part is that one box comes with two queen-size pillows. I found the pillow to be between the soft Helix pillow and the firmer Marlow pillow below. You sink into it, but not too much. My only complaint with this pillow is that it's not cool to the touch, and some sleepers might find it too lumpy.  Sleeping position(s): Back and side
$89 at Nolah
Caroline Igo/CNET
Brooklinen Marlow Pillow
$37 at Brooklinen
I sleep on Brooklinen sheets every night, so I'm a big fan of the brand. This was the first Brooklinen pillow I've ever tested. The Marlow Pillow is made of memory foam and polyester fiber, and the outside cover is made of 100% cotton. You can't remove any filling to adjust the firmness to your liking, the pillow comes with two zippers (one at the top and one at the bottom) that do just that. You won't notice a huge difference.I found the Marlow Pillow to be more supportive than a pillow made with shredded memory foam. You won't sink, but it might be too firm for some sleepers. Sleeping position(s): Back and combination
$37 at Brooklinen
Caroline Igo/CNET
Lagoon Otter Pillow
$140 at Lagoon
The Lagoon Otter Pillow is the definition of versatile. The fill is made with shredded gel-infused memory foam, and the cover is polyester and bamboo. While the pillow arrives prefilled with foam, there's extra foam available and an extra pouch for any fill that you wish to take out. The pillow feels soft, but it's not cool to the touch. Lagoon claims that this pillow is for all sleeper types, but my testing didn't agree. It is great for back and side sleepers, but to sleep comfortably on your stomach, you would have to take out nearly all the fill. For the price and effort, it might be worth it to get a pillow designed for stomach sleepers.Sleeping position(s): Back and side
$140 at Lagoon
Caroline Igo/CNET
Sijo Support Pillow
$94 at Sijo Home
The Sijo Support Pillow is for those who like pillows that are firmer, bouncy and supportive. It isn't for memory foam lovers -- like myself. The inside is made entirely of perforated Talalay latex foam, and the outside shell is made of a blend of eucalyptus fibers. The pillow is Oeko-Tex Standard 100 certified, hypoallergenic and made of environmentally sustainable materials.It isn't cool to the touch, but the pillow is made of all the right temperature-neutral materials. My head hardly sinks at all on top of this pillow. It's also a light pillow for how dense it feels.  Sleeping position(s): Back and side
$94 at Sijo Home
Factors to consider when choosing a cooling pillowSleeping positionDifferent sleeping positions require different types of pillows. Stomach sleepers should look for softer and thinner pillows, while side sleepers need a firmer and higher pillow. Back sleepers require a pillow that is somewhere in the middle.PricePillows can be expensive. Oftentime, you can find a great foam pillow for around $50 to $100. Pillows with higher-quality materials (such as silk or bamboo) may well be over $150 or $200. Regardless, stick to your budget. MaterialThe best cooling pillows will be made out of latex, foam, silk, cotton or bamboo. Steer clear of pillows made solely of non-gel, non-perforated memory foam, as this material will retain heat.HeightPillows with a high loft (about five inches) are made for side sleepers. If you are a stomach or back sleeper, look for pillows that have a low loft or height (under five inches). SizeWhile the average pillow comes in a standard size, you can often choose a queen or king size. Best cooling pillows compared
PriceSize(s)FirmnessMaterialsMachine-washable?Hypoallergenic?Trial PeriodWarranty Casper Hybrid Pillow $149Standard, KingMediumPoly foamCover onlyNot specified30-nights10-year limitedGhostPillow $55Standard, QueenMediumGel memory foamCover onlyYes101-nights5-yearsBrooklyn Bedding Luxury Cooling Pillow $129Queen, KingMediumMemory foamCover onlyYes30-days3-yearsNest Easy Breather Pillow $119Standard, Queen, King, Side SleeperAdjustableShredded foamCover onlyNot specified30-nights2-yearsPurple Harmony $199Standard, KingMediumLatexCover onlyYes100-nights1-yearsBear Pillow $125Standard, KingMediumLatex and memory "hybrid" foamNoYes30-nights2-yearsLayla Kapok $109Queen, KingAdjustableShredded memory foamNoNot specified120-nights5-yearsCozy Earth Silk Pillow $299Standard, KingMediumSilk and bambooNoYes100-day10-yearsCoop Home Goods Eden Pillow $139Queen, KingAdjustableShredded memory foamCover onlyYes100-nights5-yearsBirch Organic Pillow $149Standard, KingMediumCotton, wool and latexNoYes100-nights1-yearSleep Number True Temp Pillow $110Standard, KingMedium to Medium-firmFoamCover onlyYes100-nights1-yearSaatva Latex Pillow $165Queen, KingMedium-softCotton and shredded latexCover onlyYes45-days1-year
Best cooling pillows FAQs
Do cooling pillows really work?
Some cooling pillows claim to stay cool all night, but this is rarely the case, even for those that feel cool to the touch. It's what's inside the pillow that is doing the work -- not the cooling cover layer. These types of pillows use a material that won't retain body heat and remain temperature-neutral. The cool-to-the-touch cover is an added bonus and may keep you feeling cool for a while, but it will eventually fade. Its filling will keep you from sweating during the night.
What is the coldest pillow on the market?
Out of all the pillows that I tested, I found that the
is the coldest pillow on the market. It made the top of my list due to its high-quality materials, comfort and truly cool feel.
How do I keep my pillow cool all night?
There's no such thing as a pillow that will stay ice cold all night long, but there are a few things you can do to ensure it stays as cool as possible at night. One, make sure your cooling pillow has the right pillowcase on it. I suggest using a bamboo, silk or light pillowcase to truly feel the cool cover. This material also won't retain body heat. Secondly, you can freeze your pillowcases and even your sheets before you go to bed. Lastly, choose a pillow that's made of perforated foam, gel, latex, bamboo, silk or cotton.
Should I put a pillowcase on my cooling pillow?
Yes, using a pillowcase is essential for maintaining your pillow’s longevity, by keeping your pillow clean and protected. If you're worried that adding a pillowcase to your cooling pillow will lessen its cooling effects, take a look at some of the best cooling sheets.
How often should I replace my cooling pillow?
Most cooling pillows should be replaced every couple of years, depending on the quality of the materials and how well you maintain them. Memory foam and latex cooling pillows typically last longer, up to three years. Your pillow will show some signs when it's time to replace it, like decreased cooling effect, noticeable lumps or flattening, persistent odors despite cleaning, visible staining or waking with new neck pain or headaches. To extend your cooling pillow's lifespan, use a protective pillowcase, wash the cover regularly according to manufacturer instructions and avoid folding or crushing the pillow during storage.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.