The Linux Kernel Archives - Site news
The Linux Kernel Archives
About
Contact us
FAQ
Releases
Signatures
Site news
Linux.dev mailing list service
2021-03-15
By Konstantin Ryabitsev
In Site news.
We are pleased to announce the availability of a new mailing list
service running under the new lists.linux.dev domain. The goal of this deployment is to
offer a subscription service that:
prioritizes mail delivery to public-inbox archives available
via lore.kernel.org
conforms to DMARC requirements to ensure subscriber delivery
makes minimal changes to email headers and no changes to the message
body content for the purposes of preserving patch attestation
If you would like to host a Linux development mailing list on this
platform, please see further details on the subspace.kernel.org site.
Why another mailing list service?
Linux development started in 1991 and has been ongoing for the past 30
years at an ever-increasing pace. Many popular code collaboration
platforms have risen throughout these three decades -- and while some of
them are still around, many others have shut down and disappeared
without offering any way to preserve the history of the projects they
used to host.
Development via mailed-in patches remains the only widely used mechanism
for code collaboration that does not rely on centralized infrastructure
maintained by any single entity. The Linux developer community sees
transparency, independence and decentralization as core guiding
principles behind Linux development, so it has deliberately chosen to
continue using email for all its past and ongoing collaboration efforts.
What about vger.kernel.org?
The infrastructure behind lists.linux.dev supports multiple domains, so
all mailing lists hosted on vger.kernel.org will be carefully migrated
to the same platform while preserving current addresses, subscribers,
and list ids. The only thing that will noticeably change is the
procedure to subscribe and unsubscribe from individual lists. As
majordomo is no longer maintained, we will instead switch to using
separate subscribe/unsusbscribe addresses per each list.
There are no firm ETAs for this migration, but if you are currently
subscribed to any mailing list hosted on vger.kernel.org, you will
receive a message when the migration date is approaching.
Other articles
Git mirror available in Beijing
2020-01-11
By Konstantin Ryabitsev
In Site news.
If you are a developer located around Beijing, or if your connection to
Beijing is faster and more reliable than to locations outside of China,
then you may benefit from the new git.kernel.org mirror kindly provided
by Code Aurora Forum at https://kernel.source.codeaurora.cn/. This is …
read more
Get notifications for your patches
2018-12-13
In Site news.
We are trialing out a new feature that can send you a notification when
the patches you send to the LKML are applied to linux-next or to the
mainline git trees. If you are interested in trying it out, here are the
details:
The patches must be sent to the …
read more
List archives on lore.kernel.org
2018-12-12
In Site news.
You may access the archives of many Linux development mailing lists on
lore.kernel.org. Most of them include a full archive of messages going
back several decades.
listing of currently hosted archives
If you would like to suggest another kernel development mailing list to
be included in this list …
read more
Minor changes to kernel tarball releases
2018-07-27
In Site news.
We'd like to announce several small changes to the way Linux tarballs
are produced.
Mainline release tarball signatures
Starting with the 4.18 final release, all mainline tarball PGP
signatures will be made by Greg Kroah-Hartman instead of Linus Torvalds.
The main goal behind this change is to simplify the …
read more
Best way to do linux clones for your CI
2018-07-25
In Site news.
If you are in charge of CI infrastructure that needs to perform frequent
full clones of kernel trees from git.kernel.org, we strongly recommend
that you use the git bundles we provide instead of performing a full
clone directly from git repositories.
It is better for you, because downloading …
read more
Nitrokey digital tokens for kernel developers
2018-04-04
By Konstantin Ryabitsev
In Site news.
The Linux Foundation IT team has been working to improve the code
integrity of git repositories hosted at kernel.org by promoting the use
of PGP-signed git tags and commits. Doing so allows anyone to easily
verify that git repositories have not been altered or tampered with no
matter from …
read more
RC tarballs and patches starting with 4.12-rc1
2017-05-16
In Site news.
As you may be aware, starting with 4.12-rc1 Linus will no longer provide
signed tarballs and patches for pre-release ("-rc") kernels. Reasons for
this are multiple, but largely this is because people who are most
interested in pre-release tags -- kernel developers -- do not rely on
patches and tarballs to …
read more
If you got "BAD Signature" this morning
2017-05-14
In Site news.
The XZ tarballs for the following kernel releases did not initially pass
signature verification due to benign changes to the tarball structure
done by the pixz compression tool:
4.11.1
4.10.16
4.9.28
4.4.68
These changes would have resulted in GPG returning "Bad Signature …
read more
Fast new frontends with Packet
2017-03-11
In Site news.
We are extremely happy to announce that Packet has graciously donated
the new hardware systems providing read-only public access to the
kernel.org git repositories and the public website (git.kernel.org and
www.kernel.org, respectively). We have avoided using cloud providers in
the past due to security implications …
read more
Page 1 / 3
⟩
⟫
Other resources
Git Trees
Documentation
Kernel Mailing Lists
Patchwork
Wikis
Bugzilla
Mirrors
Linux.com
Linux Foundation
Social
Site Atom feed
Releases Atom Feed
Kernel Planet
This site is operated by the Linux Kernel Organization, a 501(c)3 nonprofit corporation, with support from the following sponsors.