Wayne Manor is packed with supervillains in the upcoming animated sitcom BAT-FAM
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Batman
Luke Wilson reprises his role from Merry Little Batman
Prime Video’s new animated comedy pays tribute to Batman & Robin
By
Samantha Nelson
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
0:34
How long is the Homestuck animated pilot?
2 days ago
This controversial shooter is promising lower prices to boost its Steam visibility
3 days ago
0:48
Helluva Boss' creator explains the changes after the original pilot
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Credit: Image: Warner Bros. Animation
Director Mike Roth shared his love for Joel Schumacher’s campy 1997 film Batman & Robin by making Mr. Freeze, Poison Ivy, and Bane part of an aging rogue’s gallery in his 2023 family-friendly Christmas movie Merry Little Batman. He’s paying further tribute to Batman & Robin in BAT-FAM, his animated sitcom coming to Prime Video in November. The follow-up to Merry Little Batman will see the return of Luke Wilson’s Batman taking on the challenges of raising young Damian Wayne (Yonas Kibreab) with the help of his faithful butler, Alfred Pennyworth (James Cromwell). Alfred is joined by his grandniece Alicia Pennyworth (London Hughes). The character’s name is a nod to Alicia Silverstone, who played Alfred’s niece Barbara Wilson, aka Batgirl, in Batman & Robin — a major shift Schumacher made from the comics, where Barbara is Commissioner Gordon’s daughter. Rather than donning a costume of her own, BAT-FAM’s Alicia Pennyworth will be working to rehabilitate former supervillains.
Credit: Image: Warner Bros. Animation
That work starts in Wayne Manor, which will be home to three supervillains who have fallen on hard times. Ra’s al Ghul (Michael Benyaer) has been effectively turned into a ghost due to a magical mishap, so instead of leading the League of Shadows he’s just doting on his grandson, Damian. Volcana (Haley Tju), the pyrokineticist introduced in a 1998 episode of Superman: The Animated Series, has been de-aged into a 12-year-old by the Lazarus Pit and is now playing the role of Damian’s sarcastic big sister. Man-Bat (Bobby Moynihan) is the family’s slacker roommate, squatting in the belfry and spending his time playing video games and raiding the fridge. BAT-FAM will follow the Bat-Family as they navigate domestic issues and try to keep Gotham safe, providing a cutesy alternative to the raunchy comedy of HBO Max’s Harley Quinn or Prime Video’s dark tribute to Batman: The Animated Series, Batman: Caped Crusader. Fans will be able to get a first look at the show at an Oct. 11 sneak peek screening at New York Comic Con.
DC
Animation
TV
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Redd88
Redd88
Redd88
#IB519888
Member since 2022-05-25
184
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
This feels weird to read. They can do anything with Batman, I don't care either way - but this show just feels so far removed from what Batman actually is - instead of like, using the Batman IP, couldn't they just make a new show? or like, would this show, not survive on it's own, without Batman as the hook?Like, we don't need another batman cartoon, we just need new shows.
Or is it not enough to be
a new show anymore? everything has to have a familiar IP hook?I dunno.
2025-09-19 10:40:55
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
4 days ago
Silksong broke me — then it got good
2 days ago
The weird, heartbreaking FPS powered by science, not combat
2 days ago
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Most Popular
Him's blood-soaked ending falls flat for one frustrating reason
Superman, Elio, Ne Zha 2 and every movie new to streaming this weekend
Xbox even more expensive after second price hike in 6 months
3 cute, extremely gory stories from the set of Primate
I went to Borderlands 4's... New York Fashion Week runway show?
Towa and the Guardians of the Sacred Tree can’t escape Hades's shadow
See More
Trending Now
No one is actually skating in the new Skate
Roblox's brainrot game is caught in a legal snafu that's got fans freaking out
Cronos: The New Dawn is a horror hellscape set in its creators' own hometown
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.