Shawn P. Walchef - Author Biography | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Shawn P. Walchef
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Instagram
Website
Email
Bio
Shawn Walchef is the founder of Cali BBQ Media and a leading voice in the Business Creator Economy. He teaches restaurant owners, tech founders, and hospitality leaders how to thrive in the digital age through Smartphone Storytelling and his Digital Hospitality framework.
As host of Restaurant Influencers (produced by Cali BBQ Media and published by Entrepreneur Media), Shawn has built one of the most impactful shows in the hospitality industry. The podcast and video series has been viewed more than 71 million times and features top executives, operators, and innovators shaping the future of restaurants.
Shawn is also the owner of Cali BBQ, a restaurant brand in San Diego that has grown from a local hotspot into a national example of how hospitality can thrive by embracing technology and storytelling.
A keynote speaker at leading restaurant and technology shows, Shawn has partnered with Toast, Uber Eats, Pepsi, US Foods, Restaurant365, and Google to create authentic content that drives awareness and growth. His mission: help businesses stop being invisible online by teaching them to “Be The Show, Not the Commercial.”
Want to write for Entrepreneur too?
Apply to join Entrepreneur Leadership network.
Latest
Growing a Business
He Turned Failure Into a Massive Food Truck and Restaurant Operation. Here's How.
Chris Brown's World Famous turns food trucks into live-streamed stages, blending egg rolls with entertainment.
Growing a Business
This Global Beverage Giant Will Help Market Your Restaurant — For Free. Here Are the Details.
André Moraes of PepsiCo explains how the brand is supporting restaurants with digital tools, investing in local businesses and strengthening communities.
Growing a Business
People Line Up Down the Block to Try This Iconic NYC Pizza. Now, It Could Be Coming to Your City.
Lawrence Longo shares his vision for the next great American pizza brand, its loyal following and the strategy behind big growth.
Leadership
He Went from Tech CEO to Dishwasher. Now, He's Behind 320 Restaurants and $750 Million in Assets.
Andrew K. Smith discusses how storytelling drives scale, how founders lead and how family stays part of the journey.
Growing a Business
His Sushi Burger Got 50 Million Views — and Launched an Entire Business
Paul Ryu discusses how one off-menu item sparked millions of views, the type of creators he hires and what it takes to scale influence without selling out.
Starting a Business
Von Miller Learned About Chicken Farming in a College Class – And It Became the Inspiration for a Business That Counts Patrick Mahomes as an Investor
The Super Bowl MVP might've fallen asleep during class, but it sparked a passion for farming that he turned into Greener Pastures Chicken.
More Authors You Might Like
Amanda Breen
Senior Features Writer
Wesley Crook
Ben Angel
Entrepreneur Network Contributor
Eve Gumpel
Carl Stoffers
Senior Business Editor
Cynthia Kay
A small business leader for over 35 years.
Erik Bergman
Founder of Great.com
Donald Fountain
More Latest Content
Loading...
Previous
Previous
1
2
3
...
11
12
13
Next
Next
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC