Morningstar’s Editorial Policies | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Terminology
Integrity and Independence
Advertising
Attribution/Plagiarism
Automation
Generative Artificial Intelligence
Conflicts of Interest
Investment Disclosure
Opinion
Corrections and Clarifications
Standards Editor
Home
Policies and Standards
Morningstar’s Editorial Policies
Morningstar’s Editorial Policies
A look at the standards that our editorial staff follows.
Morningstar.com
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Morningstar provides a platform for analysts, researchers, and authors to report on investment, personal finance, and economic topics fairly, accurately, and from an investor’s point of view. The firm was founded on a principle of independent research, and the Editorial Policy helps ensure our credibility and commitment to investor success.This policy works in tandem with other Morningstar policies and procedures, which can be found here.TerminologyEditorial content refers to Morningstar-created articles, videos, presentations, and graphics on public-facing editorial websites; printed materials; podcasts; editorial sections of research products; any content that’s written by an analyst, but not in their coverage of a security; and columns and articles written for third-party publications in which the author is representing Morningstar. It can also include editorial-focused events that Morningstar hosts. Authors are writers or participants who are primarily responsible for, or contribute substantially to, the creation of editorial content. The term authors encompasses both Morningstar employees and paid freelance contributors performing work on behalf of Morningstar.Automation refers to software that produces templated content based on specific algorithms and datasets.Generative artificial intelligence refers to systems that use large language models or other types of technology to generate content—text, images, video, audio, code, and other media—in response to prompts and queries. Beneficial ownership is when a person has the opportunity, directly or indirectly, to profit or share in any profit derived from a transaction in a security or other asset.External advertising sales teams means employees responsible for selling third-party advertising on Morningstar-owned media platforms. This does not include internal marketing departments responsible for promoting Morningstar content and products.Integrity and IndependenceMaintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to Morningstar’s mission of empowering investor success. At the core of all Morningstar products and services is our data, ratings, research, and editorial content. Our procedures for collecting, entering, and presenting data and information are designed to protect the integrity of our work and are continually reviewed.To help maintain the integrity of Morningstar’s investment research and editorial content, in alignment with our Code of Ethics, we preserve a strict functional separation between authors and the company’s external client and sales teams. This separation serves to prevent any explicit or implied pressure to influence or change the opinions or conclusions reached in analyses, research, or editorial content.Authors are responsible for identifying and properly handling situations in which the integrity of our work could be compromised. If authors of editorial content are unsure about something, they should ask their supervisors.AdvertisingAny sponsored content, advertising, or third-party content that’s hosted on our properties must be distinguishable from our editorial content.Attribution/PlagiarismMorningstar strongly believes in intellectual property rights. We respect the work of others and don’t pass this work off as our own. Just as we expect attribution for the use of our work, we credit sources and cite where we get information. Morningstar provides a comprehensive set of guidelines to authors of editorial content to prevent plagiarism and copyright infringement. Violating these guidelines can damage the credibility and integrity of our content and result in disciplinary action.AutomationMorningstar’s editorial team uses automation to create some content. Any automated content is fact-checked and reviewed by editors before publishing and will include a disclosure to indicate that it was generated with automation software. Read more about how Morningstar.com uses automation here.Generative Artificial IntelligenceMorningstar is exploring ways to use generative AI. We don’t publish AI-generated editorial content without human editorial oversight. Any editorial content generated by AI will be clearly labeled in the byline and carry a disclosure. AI can be used as a tool for ideas, headline suggestions, metadata, and closed captions without noting its use.Articles translated with the assistance of AI tools may not be reviewed by a fluent speaker of the translated language, and accuracy cannot be guaranteed. Translated articles are provided for informational purposes only. In cases of discrepancy, the original-language article will prevail.We expect our editorial AI policy to evolve along with the technology and its capabilities.Conflicts of InterestIn accordance with the company’s Code of Ethics, authors must disclose and avoid situations where their personal or other business interests could conflict (or be perceived to conflict) with the editorial content they create on behalf of Morningstar.Investment DisclosureOur goal is to be transparent with our readers. If an author writes about a security in which they have a beneficial ownership, then we disclose it with the content. In other contexts, such as live appearances or print publications, we will disclose relevant ownership interests.This policy doesn’t supersede Morningstar’s Code of Ethics or integrity policies for the manager research research and equity research groups. For instance, Morningstar equity analysts cannot own securities issued by the companies that they cover. Members of manager research are prohibited from holding securities issued by publicly traded companies that derive a material portion of their revenue from managing mutual funds.OpinionAt Morningstar, we respect individual opinions. These opinions represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and the exacting analysis of our research processes. Authors can publish views that Morningstar might not agree with, but they will show their work and aim to make it clear when the view is their own. In addition, authors are to ensure that they properly distinguish facts from opinions in editorial content and that the analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.Corrections and ClarificationsWhen we make a mistake, we acknowledge the error and correct it in a way that’s transparent to our readers. When we publish material that’s incomplete or requires additional context, we revise the content and issue a clarification. In rare circumstances, we may unpublish, or retract, material.Standards EditorMorningstar’s standards editor helps ensure that all of our content meets the guidelines and principles outlined in this policy and that our language is fair, accurate, and inclusive.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Policies and Standards
View All
How Does Morningstar.com Use Automation? A look at how we’re bringing you more timely insights about the financial markets, at scale.
Adley Bowden May 21, 2024
About the Author
View All Authors
Morningstar.com
More from Author
Morningstar.com offers coverage of 950 stocks, 1,150 mutual funds, and 300 ETFs, plus market news, economic analysis, portfolio-planning insights, and investment commentary.
Morningstar’s Editorial Policies
Morningstar.com Sep 16, 2025
The Morningstar Economic Moat Rating
Morningstar.com Jul 22, 2025
Final Thoughts From Charlie Munger on Apple, Warren Buffett, and the Big Costco Error
Morningstar.com Nov 29, 2023
Best- and Worst-Performing Stocks of October 2023
Morningstar.com Nov 2, 2023
20 Years After the Market-Timing Scandal, the Fund Industry Focuses on Transparency but Lacks Disclosure
Morningstar.com Sep 11, 2023
Morningstar U.S. Market Summary
Morningstar.com Jun 30, 2023
Investing for a Future
Morningstar.com Jun 15, 2023
Top Stock Gainers and Losers of May 2023
Morningstar.com Jun 1, 2023
Q3 Markets and Funds in Review and Q4 Stock Market Outlook
Morningstar.com Oct 7, 2022
Why Aren’t More Women Talking About Crypto?
Morningstar.com Sep 1, 2022
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility