Best early Amazon Prime Day Kindle deals 2025: My favorites sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
Best Amazon Prime Day Kindle deals 2025: I'm tracking my favorite discounts before October
Shop deals on Kindles before the October Prime Day event, and cross more books off your to-read list.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 23, 2025 at 1:20 p.m. PT
Kindle Essentials Bundle for $147 | Save $15
Kindle Essentials Bundle for $147
Save $15
View now View at Amazon
Prime Day is around the corner -- again. This time, it comes in the form of October Prime Day, or Prime Big Deal Days. If you're having trouble keeping track of the various Prime Days, you aren't alone. But if you're feeling shoppy and want to save some money on a big purchase, now might be the time to buy. During October Prime Day, which takes place between Oct. 7 and 8, Amazon is slicing prices on household tech, electronics, and more -- including Kindle devices, which often hit their lowest prices of the year during Prime Day sales.Also: The best Kindles we've testedI've been an avid Kindle user for years, and I've witnessed Amazon discounting the e-readers during Black Friday, Cyber Monday, and Prime Day. We'll see Amazon apply deals to its lineup of e-readers during the event, but while we wait for prices on Paperwhites and Scribes to drop, here are some discounts you can shop in the meantime. Also: The best deals to shop ahead of October Prime DayMy favorite Prime Day Kindle and e-reader deals
Kindle Essentials Bundle for $147 Save $15
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
Current price: $147Original price: $162In the market for a base model Kindle, a case, and an adapter? You can get this bundle offer with the matcha green base model Kindle at the slightest discount right now.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Three months of Kindle Unlimited for free (save $36): Looking to read more but buy fewer books? This free trial offers three months of Kindle Unlimited for $0. After the trial ends, Kindle Unlimited costs $12 per month. CoBak Kindle Scribe Case: $16 (save $5): This waterproof leather case comes with a pen holder and is under $20 right now. The smart cover automatically wakes up your e-reader or puts it to sleep. Kindle Essentials Bundle with 2024 base model Kindle 16GB: $147 (save $15): Last year's base model Kindle is the e-reader I highly recommend to first-time buyers. This bundle combines the Kindle with a fabric cover and an adapter.International Kindle Oasis 32GB: $175 (save $175): Despite the Kindle Oasis's half-off discount, it's important to note that the e-reader isn't available to buy within the US. Kindle Scribe Essentials Bundle 16GB: $445 (save $55): Whether you're a student taking notes ahead of class or an avid reader and annotator, the Kindle Scribe offers an e-reader and note-taking device all in one. Kindle Paperwhite Essentials Bundle: $197 (save $20): The Kindle Paperwhite is a step up from the base model Kindle. It's built for avid e-readers who are graduating from the smaller device and sharper display, and longer battery life. This bundle combines the Paperwhite with a black fabric cover and an adapter. Prime Day e-reader accessory dealsRemote Control Page Turner: $16 (save $4): Use this device to turn your Kindle's pages without smudging the screen. Moko Kindle Case: $13 (save $27): Deck out your Kindle with this under-$20 case. FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? Prime Big Deals Day takes place from October 7 through October 8 this year. During the sale, the retailer cuts prices on thousands of products (and many products from brands it owns, like Kindle, Alexa, Ring, and more). Are Kindles really cheaper on Prime Day? Because Kindles fall under one of the many brands Amazon owns, Amazon will normally drop prices during Prime Day on them. I've been covering these Kindle deals for over two years, and I can almost guarantee that there will be a price drop on the devices during the two-day event. How did we choose these Prime Day deals?ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops. We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
Show more
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best October Prime Day deals under $100: My favorite early sales
Amazon Prime Day is October 7-8: Everything you need to know about October Prime Day
Best early Amazon Prime Day Samsung deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use