Jimmy Kimmel Suspension Shows Fragility of Late-Night TV in 2025 - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Table of Contents
Late-night numbers are looking sleepy
The heavy hand of politics
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
Late-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business model
By
Lara O'Reilly
Jimmy Kimmel's show was suspended on Wednesday.
Randy Holmes/Disney via Getty Images
Late-night numbers are looking sleepy
The heavy hand of politics
2025-09-18T17:18:43Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The suspension of "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" exemplifies the fragile state of late-night TV.
Late-night hosts have come under increasing pressure from Trump and his allies in government.
Networks are grappling with declining ratings and local broadcast stations wielding their power.
The lights are dimming on late-night TV, and Jimmy Kimmel's suspension by ABC is the latest reminder of a fading era.
Once the crown jewel of network television, the format faces pressure on multiple fronts. Hosts have become the target of Trump and his allies, who don't find their satirical jokes funny and want them off the air. At the same time, late-night shows are grappling with declining ratings and ad revenue as audiences shift away from linear TV viewing to streaming and social media.On Wednesday, Disney's ABC said it had pulled "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" off the air indefinitely. The suspension came following comments Kimmel made on Monday's show about Charlie Kirk's assassination and President Donald Trump's reaction to his death.
The mocking monologue drew a backlash from the Federal Communications Commission and partner companies that own ABC affiliate stations. Brendan Carr, Trump's appointee as chair of the FCC, condemned Kimmel's comments as "the sickest conduct possible" and warned that ABC's affiliate licenses could come under review. Nexstar and Sinclair said they would yank the show from the ABC affiliate stations they own. These stations carry ABC programming under contract but aren't owned by the network itself.Kimmel's suspension marks the latest flash point for network television's after-dark lineup. In July, CBS said "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert" would be canceled after next year, a decision it said was financial. Multiple outlets, including The Wall Street Journal, reported the show was losing about $40 million a year.
The Jimmy Kimmel fallout is ramping up. Get caught up here:Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the airThere's a $6.2 billion deal looming over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionThese are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel againPeter Kafka: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.
"That leaves Jimmy and Seth, two total losers, on Fake News NBC," Trump wrote on Truth Social late Wednesday, referring to NBC late-night show hosts Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers, in a post cheering Kimmel's suspension. "Their ratings are also horrible. Do it NBC!"
Network executives must make complex calculations regarding late-night programming in order to serve several constituents at once: audiences, advertisers, local station groups, and the government."It's a really difficult position to be in," said Jason Damata, CEO of Fabric Media, a marketing and communications consultancy. "It's easy for people to go, 'Disney is bending to the will,' but it's operating in a really complex business environment."Going forward, the big question for media conglomerates like Disney and NBCUniversal — which own properties ranging from streaming services to theme parks — is whether keeping late-night shows around is worth the heat.
Late-night numbers are looking sleepyAt their peak, shows like "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson," which came off-air in the 1990s, and "The Late Show with David Letterman," which aired its final episode in 2015, could pull in audiences of more than 10 million viewers. In the second quarter of this year, Colbert averaged around 2.42 million viewers and Kimmel 1.77 million, according to Nielsen.
Johnny Carson, seen here interviewing actor Robin Williams, led late-night TV at its peak.
NBC/The Tonight Show
As audiences have decreased across late-night, so have the ad dollars.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Advertiser spending on late-night shows on linear broadcasts across ABC, CBS, and NBC dropped to $221 million in 2024, down from $439 million in 2018, according to Guideline, an analytics firm that aggregates data from the world's largest media-buying agencies.
Madison and Wall media analyst Brian Wieser estimates that news and current affairs programming, which includes late-night, represents a "low double-digit share of ad revenue" for the industry, somewhere in the mid-single digit billions of dollars. The situation could soon get worse as the US government plans to step up its enforcement of pharmaceutical ads on TV, a key constituent for TV news advertising."Having a highly paid star with falling ratings and a questionable ad appeal is never a good mix," said Ian Whittaker, an analyst and founder of Liberty Sky Advisors.Despite the dwindling numbers, late-night shows like Kimmel's maintained cultural appeal and still served as branding vehicles for networks and advertisers alike. Kimmel, a four-time host of the Oscars, which air on ABC, is also a key figure for Disney beyond his eponymous talk show.
According to the TV measurement firm iSpot, "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" delivered ads for more than 200 brands, generating ABC just under $70 million in revenue year-to-date. Top-spenders on the show included major brands such as Allstate, McDonald's, and Starbucks. ABC also used 12% of its Kimmel ad inventory to advertise its other shows, per iSpot.While late-night shows might not lead the network ratings, clips of snarky monologues and comedy sketches often go viral across social media, marketing that the networks hope will entice people to sign up for their digital subscription services.The heavy hand of politicsWhen weighing the pros and cons of late-night in 2025, politics has clearly been the major shift in the calculation.
Unlike cable TV or streaming, broadcast channels are subject to FCC regulation. That's particularly relevant in an era of media consolidation, since the FCC needs to sign off on deals involving broadcast stations.
Brendan Carr, the FCC Commissioner, thanked Nexstar and Sinclair this week for removing Kimmel's show from their broadcast stations.
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
Nexstar, the owner of ABC affiliate stations, certainly wants to avoid being in the government's crosshairs. It's seeking FCC approval for a $6.2 billion deal to acquire Tegna, a combination that would make Nexstar the biggest local TV station owner in the US.And what Nexstar says matters to ABC.
"The station groups have consolidated enough to have a real voice," Damata said.The political environment leaves late-night and broader current affairs and news programming in a tight spot, where the risks to media giants could outweigh their benefits."The late-night format as we've known it was certainly at risk prior to this year, and those risks are certainly more existential in the current environment," said Wieser, the Madison and Wall analyst.
As to the future of late-night shows, some are hoping streamers like Netflix will be saviors."Netflix, call me, I'm available in June," Colbert quipped in one of his "Late Show" broadcasts in August. "I will also entertain offers from Amazon."
Recommended video
Disney
ABC
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account