AirPods Pro 3 fitness feature surprises triathlete tester - here's what he found | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
AirPods Pro 3 fitness feature surprises triathlete tester - here's what he found
This new feature in the AirPods Pro 3 is a winner, according to the DC Rainmaker blog.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 9:53 a.m. PT
Zooey Liao/ZDNET/AppleFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysA known triathlete and blogger tried out the AirPods Pro 3.He tested the heart rate sensor while bicycling indoors and outdoors.The heart rate sensor got a thumbs up for its accuracy.Wondering if you should buy Apple's new AirPods Pro 3 for the health and fitness features alone? At least one expert is impressed by the accuracy of the heart rate sensor, which is new to the AirPods lineup.In his latest DC Rainmaker blog, triathlete and tester Ray Maker provided a hands-on review of the AirPods Pro 3 from unboxing to physical testing. In his review, Maker touched on such areas as fitting the AirPods, noise cancellation, and Live Translation.Also: AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossibleBut Maker's main purpose was to put the AirPods Pro 3 through the paces. And for that, he wore them while running, bicycling, and swimming. The new AirPods carry an IP57 rating, which means they can withstand water immersion of up to 1 meter (a little more than 3 feet) for as long as 30 minutes. Not sure I'd wear my AirPods while swimming, but they seemed to survive DC Rainmaker's dunking.Certain features, such as Live Translation and the expanded Fitness app, don't require the Pro 3 and are accessible on the Pro 2 and other AirPods. Citing the enhanced Fitness app as the biggest change in Apple Fitness this September, Maker said that this feature is designed to record workout data from your AirPods or other devices.Using the heart rate sensorAfter updating your iPhone to iOS 26, you open the Fitness app, tap the new Workout tab, and follow the steps to set it up. You'll then see a variety of workouts that you can record. Under each workout are three options. The first one will automatically play music when you work out. The second will enable the Workout Buddy to provide pep talks. The third one lets you kick off the workout immediately or set a specific number of minutes or calories.That leads us to the heart rate sensor on the AirPods Pro 3. Once the AirPods are in your ears, your iPhone will grab the heart rate from them. And here's where DC Rainmaker explains how the sensor works."On the sides of the pods is a little black area, and under that are two infrared sensors that pulse light at 250 times per second," he said. "That's notably different than the more standard green LEDs used in the PowerBeats 2 Pro (which didn't work well). These infrared sensors look at the blood flow in your ears, and measure the movements of said blood."Also: Intrigued by Live Translation? You may not have to buy new AirPods to access itAfter your workout is over, you'll see a screen in the Fitness app on your iPhone with such stats as total distance, total calories burned, and your heart rate during the workout. This data also appears on the Lock screen of any iPhone with Live Activity.So how did the heart rate sensor fare based on DC Rainmaker's testing? To try this out, he compared the sensor on the AirPods Pro 3 with the one on the PowerBeats 2 Pro while cycling both indoors and outdoors. The heart rate for indoor cycling was easier to capture on both earbuds. But due to actual elevation and other factors, capturing the rate when cycling outdoors seemed to be more of a challenge.But here, the AirPods Pro 3 proved their worth. The earbuds struggled a bit to grab the heart rate at the peak of an interval as DC Rainmaker showed through a graph in his post. But otherwise, he was impressed.Also: I'm not swapping my Apple Watch for the AirPods Pro 3's heart rate tracking - here's why"Holy crap, that's good," Maker said. "I fully expected the AirPods Pro 3 to fail here, and it aced it. In any case, I'm blown away. Like, legit blown away. Not because Apple couldn't do it, but because the PowerBeats 2 Pro were so bad (and only about 8 months ago), that I'd kinda written off Apple's ability to get optical HR correct."In the end, DC Rainmaker summed up his opinion: "Apple has managed to do something that really nobody else has: Produce a pretty solid heart rate sensing device in your ears. It's not absolutely perfect, but it's really strong."Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This new AirPods Pro feature makes me question why I still wear an Apple Watch
I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gap
I'm not swapping my Apple Watch for the AirPods Pro 3's heart rate tracking - here's why
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use