Wolverine's PS5 blood tech is new territory for Insomniac
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Wolverine makes use of advanced blood tech that interacts with its environment in dynamic ways, Insomniac Games says
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
By
Patricia Hernandez
Published 10 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Marvel's Wolverine
Related
GameStop's shiny Pokémon Scarlet and Violet giveaway is off to a rough start
15 hours ago
Gerard Butler returns in a post-apocalyptic sequel we never expected to see
13 hours ago
Marvel Zombies wastes the MCU's most promising superhero team
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Insomniac Games/Sony Interactive Entertainment
With an oeuvre that includes well-regarded games like Ratchet and Clank and Sunset Overdrive, Insomniac Games' reputation precedes it. Most of that rep is tied up with the idea that Insomniac produces polished, high-quality games. But as the PlayStation studio illustrated during September's State of Play, its identity is also wrapped up in the production of a specific type of game. We're talking family-friendly, approachable games that can verge into T-for-teen territory. Insomniac can get serious, and does in series like Marvel's Spider-Man (and the all-but-forgotten Fuse). But no matter how many combos you throw or how you sling your web powers, Spider-Man does not kill. In Wolverine, there's no question that Logan kills — and that's an understatement. Logan maims, he decapitates, he tears to shreds. "Visceral" is a word the developers use repeatedly when discussing Wolverine. He does not, as Spider-Man does, find a loophole that defangs the violence. As fans of the Spider-Man series know, the game tries to account for situations where the wallcrawler does something to an enemy that could, theoretically, result in death. If you try and hit baddies off tall buildings, for example, the game will automatically glue that NPC to a nearby wall. While fans have taken umbrage with this idea — surely repeated hits to the head won't end well for those Spidey's foes — Sony insists that Spider-Man is not a murderer. This hasn't stopped fans from concocting situations where a death is all but confirmed, but as far as the narrative is concerned, Spider-Man is a nice guy who never goes too far. Wolverine is another matter entirely. His origin story is inextricably linked with violence, and Wolverine comic and movie storylines typically emphasize how difficult it is for Logan to leave that violence behind when he's fused to his signature adamantium claws. No wonder, then, that Insomniac Games' first behind-the-scenes look at its new superhero game begins with creative director Marcus Smith immediately addressing the elephant in the room. "The question that comes up a lot to us at Insomniac Games is, 'Are you going to make a Wolverine game that is as violent and visceral as the character in the comics?'" Smith doesn't answer the question directly. Instead, the dev diary cuts to a series of gruesome kills spearheaded by Wolverine himself. Later on, a developer in the video describes Wolverine the character as a "ball of rage and fury." Making a good Wolverine game, in other words, means that Insomniac cannot overlook a central aspect of his character. The same was true for Spider-Man, a hero whose brand is all about being the everyman's protector. Wolverine just happens to land on the other end of the spectrum.
Image: Insomniac Games/Sony Interactive Entertainment
If violence is central to Wolverine as a character, developing custom tech to render blood almost seems like a foregone conclusion. During the footage, we see all manner of blood spatters bursting from bodies savaged by Wolverine. That blood is soaked up by its environment, whether that's Logan's face or the velvet tint visible on the game's snow. Quick peeks at bloody cloth and fur suggest that the blood's effect on the environment is dynamic. The physics here are sophisticated enough that the game can depict blood getting caught between Wolverine's teeth. At one point, a developer mentions the blood pools. As far as I can tell, the footage doesn't show how the game handles increasing volumes of blood. Pointing it out at all, though, suggests something is going on under the hood. I'm reminded of how The Last of Us Part 2 integrated custom blood-pooling effects to make specific death scenes all the more devastating. This far in, I feel compelled to acknowledge the barbarity of discussing how realistically a video game can render blood, or framing its depiction as a technological advancement. It's true, this is all kind of weird, even if a bloody Wolverine game sticks closely to the spirit of the source material. I'm honing in on this detail for two reasons. One, the term itself is surreal and bears repeating: BLOOD TECH! This is peak video games, right here. And two, the way Insomniac Games discusses this technology makes it clear that this is new territory for the family-friendly studio.
At one point, a developer in the video says that she wasn't sure if one of the animations where Wolverine pulls his claws up through an enemy's face might be "going too far." Spoilers, it's still in the game. "It looks fantastic," says Jess Reiner-Reed, a project director on Wolverine. I, for one, am excited to see how this new version of Insomniac Games redefines itself. The studio's been around long enough that it could legally drink, it can have some Rated M For Mature as a treat.
Analysis
PlayStation
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
Silent Hill f's content warning should be taken very, very seriously
2 days ago
Annapurna Interactive reveals 3 new games at Tokyo Game Show
1 day ago
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
13 hours ago
It's official, March 2026 has too many new video games
More from our brands
5 Of The Absolute Best Spider-Man Games To Play If You're Excited For Brand New Day
Wolverine's Cyber, Explained
50 Best New Movies on Streaming to Watch Right Now
Divinity Original Sin 2 Builds: Eternal Warrior (Death Knight Perfected)
PlayStation’s Next State of Play Could Be a One-Two Punch for Major Reveals
26 Games That Let You Play As The Bad Guy
28 Game Franchises With The Best Lore
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Fire Emblem Shadows is Among Us with a twist
Stranger Things season 5 will have more action and special effects than ever before
Final Fantasy 7 remake director pleads with fans to accept controversial Switch 2 game key cards
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.