How Cities Are Beating the Heat - The New York Times
Skip to contentSkip to site index
How Cities Are Beating the Heat The world is hot — and only getting hotter. We looked at what places around the globe are doing to keep cool. By Monika Cvorak September 25, 2025 Share full article64
The climate crisis has contributed to record-breaking summer temperatures in recent years, and 2025 looks to have continued the trend. Here’s how some places around the world are trying to cope.
Vienna Repainting surfaces Bright colors reflect light and dark ones absorb it, making surfaces heat up more.Painting black asphalt in different colors can lower the surrounding temperature by up to 9 degrees Fahrenheit (5 Celsius).
São Paulo, Brazil
This trick can also reduce the risk of train derailments. Tracks sometimes deform in high heat — but painting parts of them white can shave off up to 18 degrees Fahrenheit (10 Celsius).
Seville, Spain Providing more shade Another way to reduce the heat is to stop sun rays from getting to the ground in the first place.In Spain, cities hang white sheets between houses lining the narrow roads of historic city centers.
Cologne, Germany Creating ‘cool-off zones’ A tried-and-true way to cool down is to get wet.Some cities, taking a cue from theme parks, have introduced mist sprayers that allow passers-by to do just that.
Rio De Janeiro Showering — in the street A similar approach has been taken by some businesses.As Rio grappled with an intense heat wave, restaurants installed makeshift outdoor showers to offer customers a little relief.
Vijayapura, India Planting trees In southern India, one district has put in more than 15 million trees over the past decade, cooling the area by at least 1 degree Fahrenheit (0.6 Celsius). Saplings were grown in government nurseries.Similar initiatives have been launched in parts of Africa.
Basel, Switzerland Using rivers
In Switzerland, some people have long commuted to work by river, carrying their belongings in waterproof floating bags as they swim.
Paris And keeping them clean In Paris, the Seine reopened to swimmers this summer — for the first time since 1923 — after
a long cleanup effort. The program was so popular that it was extended into September.
Madrid Staying indoors Some cities are making more use of air-conditioned public buildings.In Madrid, one museum has opened a “climate shelter” equipped with a nap area where visitors can relax in large hammocks.
Dubai, United Arab Emirates Or at the stores During record-breaking heat in August, Dubai launched an initiative to add indoor running paths to malls.
Chongqing, China Going underground In Chongqing, residents have turned to converted World War II-era air-raid shelters for relief.The cooling tactic worked so well that one of them was turned into a hot-pot restaurant.
Paris Turning down the stove Restaurateurs above ground are finding ways to keep cool when heat waves make sweltering kitchens even more unbearable.One trick is to revamp menus to feature more cold dishes, reducing the need for burners and hot ovens.
Koga, Japan Moving the air People laboring outdoors are especially at risk from extreme heat.In Japan, some construction companies provide their workers with fan-equipped jackets.
Rahovec, Kosovo Changing schedules In Kosovo, the government has ordered workers not to work during peak heat times, shifting the work to nighttime.
Lleida, Spain
The same approach has been taken in Spain. As concerns grow over labor conditions during harvest, some fruit farmers have shifted schedules to protect workers from the sweltering midday temperatures.
Aosta Valley, Italy And using sunscreen It’s not just the workers who need protection from the sun.In Italy, winemakers are experimenting with a natural, mineral sunscreen called kaolin to protect the native Petit Rouge grapes.
Share full article64 Sources Indicators of Global Climate Change 2024 / Earth Syst. Sci. Data; Copernicus Global Climate Highlights 2024; Met Office; AEMET; JMA; MET Éireann; World Weather Attribution; Heidi Horton Collection; Agence France-Presse; Network Rail; Stadt Köln; Reuters; Trees for the Future; Stadt Bern; Basel Tourismus; Ville de Paris; Círculo de Bellas Artes de Madrid; Dubai Mallathon; Associated PressReuters, Agence France-Presse, Karan Deep Singh for The New York Times, Ilvy Njiokiktjien for The New York Times, Getty, Associated PressProduced by Monika Cvorak, Aritz Parra, Gray Beltran and Sean Catangui.
Produced by Monika Cvorak, Artiz Parra, Gray Beltran and Sean CatanguiRead 64 commentsShare full article64Related ContentAdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTSite IndexSite Information Navigation© 2025 The New York Times CompanyNYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioPrivacy PolicyCookie PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapCanadaInternationalHelpSubscriptionsManage Privacy Preferences