A 24-Year-Old Was Diagnosed With Colon Cancer After One Subtle Symptom - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Health
A 24-year-old was diagnosed with stage 3 colon cancer after almost missing her only symptom
By
Gabby Landsverk
Meagan Meadows, 24, was diagnosed with stage 3 colon cancer shortly after she graduated with a master's degree and started her career as a teacher.
Courtesy of Meagan Meadows
2025-09-24T17:39:23Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
At 24, Meagan Meadows thought she was too young to have colon cancer but was diagnosed with stage 3.
The only warning sign was blood in her stool, which she almost missed because it was difficult to see.
Colon cancer cases are on the rise in younger people.
Meagan Meadows had just started student teaching with a freshly minted master's degree in education when something in her toilet got her attention.
She almost didn't notice it at first. Meadows, who's 24 and lives in Southern California, said she started to see a little bit of blood after going to the bathroom. It was incredibly faint — barely enough for her to feel scared, but she mentioned it to a couple of friends, and they urged her to get it checked out.Initially, she assumed it was hemorrhoids, stress, something wrong with her diet, or all three. A doctor told her it was unlikely to be anything serious because of her age. Initial tests and scans all came back mostly normal, except for a mild iron deficiency and thickening of the intestinal wall that could be caused by dehydration or lack of fiber.
Still, just to be sure, Meadows scheduled a colonoscopy. She expected a diagnosis like ulcerative colitis and worried that she had overreacted."I just thought, I'm only 24, there's no way I have anything going on," Meadows told Business Insider. "I felt so embarrassed because clearly I was fine. I almost canceled my appointment."The procedure revealed a walnut-sized tumor in her colon. A biopsy later found it was cancer. Cue a string of follow-up tests, which showed the cancer had spread to the surrounding lymph nodes — a stage 3 diagnosis.
"When I woke up, they asked my mom to come in and get me so we could all be in the room with the doctor," she said. "It was difficult to process."Meadows said she was shocked at the diagnosis and glad she had advocated for herself and gone through with the colonoscopy, but she wishes it had been sooner. She's since been posting about her experience on TikTok, telling more than 2 million viewers about her diagnosis and the growing number of early-onset cases of colon cancer. She hopes she might encourage other young people to get checked, too, even if they think it's probably fine."If I would have known that so many young people were getting diagnosed with colon cancer, I would have taken the symptom more seriously," Meadows said.
Blood in stool is a serious symptom, but it's easy to missColon cancer is notoriously difficult to diagnose because symptoms may not appear until the disease is already in an advanced stage. Typical symptoms, such as abdominal pain or changes to bathroom habits, can be vague and easy to confuse with other conditions like irritable bowel syndrome.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
For people under 55 with colon cancer, the most common symptom is rectal bleeding, research suggests.But Meadows said the blood in her stool — her only symptom of stage 3 colon cancer — was difficult to see. There was no blood on the toilet paper, and nothing clearly visible in the toilet, as it was mixed into the stool itself.
"It wasn't in concerning amounts; it wasn't there every time. I almost never noticed it there," she said. "I easily wrote it off as something else.""I had an image in my head that blood in the stool would mean the bowl was just red."Rectal bleeding can feel difficult or embarrassing to discuss, and patients may be reluctant to mention it even with a healthcare provider, doctors previously told BI.
"It's a pretty vulnerable thing," Meadows said. "Obviously no one wants to talk about their poop, but it's always better to get checked."Managing cancer as a young adult — and a ton of unexpected costsMeadows said she was lucky to have health insurance through her parents to cover the costs of treatment, including surgery and chemotherapy.
Meadows at the hospital with her family during treatment. Her parents' insurance covered most of the costs, but she had to pay for fertility preservation out-of-pocket with the help of a GoFundMe.
Courtesy of Meagan Meadows
Since chemo and surgery can affect fertility later in life, Meadows had to quickly decide prior to treatment whether she might ever want to have children.
She wanted the option, which meant undergoing expensive fertility preservation treatment. The out-of-pocket cost was about $10,000, including the egg retrieval procedure and required medications."The whole thing is so surreal. I went from being a normal 24-year-old to now having to plan for something I wasn't even considering for years," she said. "I didn't expect I'd have to try to protect that at this age."One of her friends started a GoFundMe to help offset the cost.
While Meadows had been substitute teaching — an unpaid role — she's had to postpone her career. Her weakened immune system from chemotherapy makes it risky to be at school, where germs can run rampant.Now in the middle of rounds of chemo, Meadows said she's coping with the help of her family, friends, and boyfriend. She also adopted a puppy, a cocker spaniel mix named Hughes, from a local shelter, for emotional support."If I didn't have him, there would be days I didn't leave the house," she said.
Meadows said that to manage the hourslong chemo sessions and the time resting afterward, she has a long list of books to read and hopes to learn new hobbies such as crocheting."Chemo definitely takes a toll on you, mentally and physically. And it's hard knowing that there's not a 100% chance that won't come back," she said. "I'm just taking it one day at a time and trying to enjoy what I can."
Recommended video
Health
Cancer
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account