Olive Garden sees success with smaller, cheaper portions as diners try to save money | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
Olive Garden sees success with smaller, cheaper portions as diners try to save money
Olive Garden sees success with smaller, cheaper portions as diners try to save money
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 19, 2025, 11:40:00 AM
By James Rogers
The restaurant is offering a 'lighter portion' section of its menu in an attempt to drive more customer traffic
Olive Garden parent Darden says that the restaurant chain is testing smaller, cheaper portion sizes
Olive Garden is testing smaller, cheaper portion sizes in an attempt to boost the affordability of its menu, as parent company Darden Restaurants Inc. looks to drive more traffic to the restaurant chain.
Giving consumers the option of smaller, less pricey meal sizes is a significant move in an industry where portioning is frequently a hot topic. Salad chain Sweetgreen Inc. (SG) recently increased portion sizes of tofu and chicken, which it says is boosting customer satisfaction. And last year, Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) was slammed over inconsistent portioning; in response, the company vowed to "ensure correct and generous portions."
Speaking during a conference call to discuss Darden's (DRI) first-quarter results Thursday, Chief Executive Rick Cardenas explained that Olive Garden is testing a "lighter portion" section of its menu, featuring seven existing entrees with reduced portions and lower prices. The restaurant chain is offering the smaller meals, which are being tested at 40% of its locations, at dinner and all day on weekends, and they come with Olive Garden's first course of unlimited bread sticks as well as unlimited soup or salad.
Cardenas explained that the move is "strengthening affordability" at Olive Garden. "There's still abundant portion sizes, but it also adds price breadth to the menu," he said. Consumer response to the smaller portions has been encouraging, according to Cardenas, who noted that they were launched without any fanfare.
The smaller-portion meals are expected to boost foot traffic to the restaurant chain. "We do believe, in the long run, this is a traffic driver," Cardenas said. He acknowledged that if people trade from a larger-portion item to a smaller-portion one, it will impact check size. "But we believe that's the portion that those guests want," he added.
Darden - which is also the parent of the LongHorn Steakhouse chain and more upscale "fine-dining" restaurants including Capital Grille, Ruth's Chris Steak House and Eddie V's - said the smaller portions are just an additional option for Olive Garden customers and are not replacing any items on the restaurant's menu.
Similar to Olive Garden's restaurant pricing, pricing for the lighter-portion entrees varies by market - although a slide that accompanied the company's results showed that a 630-calorie Chicken Parmigiana was priced at $13.99, and a 920-calorie Fettucine Alfredo was priced at $12.99. For comparison, a 1,020-calorie Chicken Parmigiana cost $20.79, while a 1,220-calorie Fettucine Alfredo cost $16.79.
Cardenas said that other Darden brands could potentially follow Olive Garden's lead with reduced-portion meals. "If other brands think that it makes sense for them and they get the learnings from Olive Garden, maybe they will implement," he said. "But right now, the focus is the Olive Garden, and it's the Olive Garden team that's driving it."
But KeyBanc Capital Markets analyst Eric Gonzalez thought the move was risky, citing accelerating food inflation. While higher beef prices may not impact Olive Garden's income statement very much, Darden's consolidated margin will likely experience some near-term pressure as the company remains committed to passing on as little as possible to the consumer, according to Gonzalez's latest note to clients.
Set against this backdrop, KeyBanc Capital Markets lowered its Darden price target to $225 from $240 but maintained its overweight rating. "We continue to view Darden as a diversified portfolio of brands that is uniquely positioned to take share of a fragmented full-service industry," wrote Gonzalez.
Darden's shares ended Thursday's session down 7.7%, weighed down by an adjusted first-quarter profit that missed Wall Street's expectations. The company's adjusted earnings, which exclude nonrecurring items, were $1.97 per share, below the FactSet consensus estimate of $2 per share.
Revenue rose 10.4% to $3.04 billion, in line with the consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by FactSet.
During the first quarter, total same-restaurant sales, or sales of restaurants open for at least 16 months, rose 4.7%, topping the FactSet consensus estimate of 4.4%. Olive Garden's same-restaurant sales rose 5.9%, while LongHorn Steakhouse's rose 5.5%. Same-restaurant sales at the company's fine-dining business fell 0.2%.
Darden also raised its full-year sales guidance, which includes a 53rd week, and now expects total sales growth of 7.5% to 8.5%, up from its prior forecast of 7% to 8% growth. The company also narrowed its outlook for same-restaurant sales growth to between 2.5% and 3.5%, from 2% to 3.5%.
Shares of Darden were up 3.2% in 2025 through Thursday, while shares of Applebee's parent Dine Brands Global Inc. (DIN) have fallen 20.8% this year. The S&P 500 index SPX is up 12.8% on the year.
-James Rogers
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-19-25 0740ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
Markets Brief: AI Investment is Massive in a Cyclical Industry. Will This Time Be Different? Plus: Defensive stocks, Brazilian equities and inflation data.
Dan Kemp Sep 22, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 19, 2025
A 5-Star Stock to Buy With a Near-5% Yield Undervalued by 23%, this cheap dividend stock is a top pick in its sector.
Travis Miller Sep 18, 2025
4 Must-Own Dividend-Growth Stocks These dividend stocks are among the top-10 holdings of two of the best fund managers.
Susan Dziubinski Sep 16, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility