How an AI Software Engineer Who Failed to Land an H-1B Visa Got an O-1 - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Tech
I failed to land an H-1B visa 3 times. My work in AI helped me get an 'Einstein visa' instead.
As told to
Lloyd Lee
Tanush Sharanarthi, 26, had six years of contributions to his field in artificial intelligence that helped him get approved for an O-1 visa, also known as the "Einstein" visa.
Courtesy Tanush Sharanarthi
2025-09-21T18:23:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Tanush Sharanarthi, a 26-year-old from Bangalore, India, tried to get an H1-B visa for three years.
He learned about the O-1 visa for individuals with "extraordinary ability" a few years ago.
Sharanarthi said he relied on six years of research and work to help him land the O-1 visa.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Tanush Sharanarthi, a 26-year-old software engineer in the Bay Area. It has been edited for length and clarity.
I work at IBM as a software engineer.I joined three years ago and have been applying for an H-1B visa ever since. The process was rough for me because I wasn't picked all three times.
The H-1B lottery system isn't merit-based. Each year, there's one lottery where applicants are put into a pool, and around 85,000 people are picked randomly. Twenty thousand spots are also reserved for people with a master's degree, but even though I had a master's, the odds were still low.It felt like I was playing the slots at Las Vegas. You win a few times, but you lose most of the time, and you don't have any control over it.After the first H-1B miss, I started looking into the O-1 visa, which I heard about from my colleagues. The O-1 visa is reserved for individuals with "extraordinary" capabilities.
Do you have experience with the H-1B visa program? Business Insider wants to hear from you. Please fill out this quick form.
There are eight categories for eligibility, and you need to satisfy at least three of them. When I went through it, I realized I already satisfied at least two of the criteria: I had published work on artificial intelligence, I used to judge hackathons, and I used to review papers for other conference journals. I had about six years of contributions to my field in AI under my belt.These were things I was already doing, but they lined up well with the O-1.Staying in the USI'm originally from Bangalore, India. I worked as a software engineer at Kimberly-Clark Corporation before I came to the US to pursue my master's degree in information systems and artificial intelligence at Johns Hopkins University.
When you come for a master's, you're on an F-1 visa.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
After that, I was able to stay in the US through an OPT, or optional practical training, which granted me temporary work authorization in the US for three years.Those three years were spent at IBM, and they lined up with my three H-1B chances.
Missing out on an H-1B was definitely disappointing.It just felt like I was having a bad day at the casino, not winning anything. However, the feeling of disappointment was amplified in this case.I didn't want to let it get to me. I felt like I was learning and contributing a lot here. That's why the O-1 visa seemed like a very good option for people who want to contribute long-term in the US.
Getting the O-1I wasn't doing work solely for a visa. My focus has always been on my field, AI and software engineering.Along the way, I've worked on research papers, contributed to open-source projects, reviewed papers, and judged hackathons.These were things I was already doing, but they lined up well with the O-1 requirements.
I applied for the O-1 visa late in August.I would go to the website where I could track the status of the application every night. I kept reading the same thing: "Processing. Processing. Processing."I didn't know when that would change. All I knew was that it would happen within 15 business days since I applied for the premium processing service.
Around the 12th business day, I opened my laptop around 5:30 p.m. I clicked on the status and saw it magically changed. My application was approved.I felt a bit of mixed emotions. I was so relieved that I was finally approved. It took a lot of hard work, but it felt nice.Like I said, it felt like I was playing slots in Vegas. Only this time I won.
Advice to other O-1 seekersThe O-1 visa is called the Einstein visa for a reason. It takes time and effort.For me, it took six years of work — from my time at Kimberly-Clark, to my master's degree, and then my job at IBM.If you're focused on your field and passionate about it, you'll naturally start to meet the criteria.
Networking is also important. I wouldn't have known about the O-1 visa unless I met the right people. Being in Silicon Valley helped, since I was able to learn from others in AI and software engineering.My advice is not to do it just for the visa. Be passionate about your field and contribute to it. The rest follows.
Recommended video
as told to
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account