Why ZorinOS 18 might be the new best Linux distro - and I've tried them all | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Linux
Why ZorinOS 18 might be the new best Linux distro - and I've tried them all
The team behind ZorinOS has released the beta version of the open-source operating system, and it's not only stunning but also more user-friendly.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 8:11 a.m. PT
Jack Wallen/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysZorinOS is a great Linux distribution for all types of users.The latest release includes tons of new features.You'll also find performance increases and new tiling options.I've been a big fan of ZorinOS for a long time. I've found the OS's approach to be quite refreshing, and the team behind it is always ready to add something fresh to new releases. When I received the invite to test the beta of the latest release (18), I assumed there was something special in store. Although the beta release of ZoronOS 18 doesn't offer a profound change to the operating system or UI, all of the polish and new bits come together to create something that I'm confident anyone could not only use but also enjoy using. And by anyone, I mean you, your children, your parents, and your grandparents.It's that easy.ZorinOS is also beautiful. Also: Zorin simplifies the task of installing Windows apps on Linux. Here's how   You might be saying to yourself, "But ZorinOS was already a lovely desktop!" Well, the maintainers have one-upped themselves with a subtle refresh such that the default layout is fantastic, even though it's a fairly straightforward KDE Plasma layout. Essentially, what ZorinOS does is enable the floating panel (with rounded edges and a slight bit of transparency).In fact, this is the first time I've installed a new version of ZorinOS and haven't immediately opened the Zorin Appearance app to change the layout. Speaking of which, the team is preparing three more layouts for the Pro edition, which include a compact panel layout, a Linux Mint-like layout, and an elementaryOS-like layout. This, combined with the other six Pro layouts, means you are sure to find a UI to perfectly meet your taste and needs.Tiling made easyIf you've never heard of a tiling window manager, you're missing out. Essentially, a tiling window manager automates window placement. When you open a new window, the tiling window manager will magically place it on your screen such that the layout is more efficient. Don't be fooled, ZorinOS isn't switching to a tiling window manager such as i3. Instead, it behaves more like window snapping. How this works is simple: After you open a window, you can drag it to one of the various locations on the screen, and the window manager will automatically adjust the size and placement. For example, if you drag the window to the top center of the display, that window will take up the entire desktop. If you drag it to the left side, the window will take up the left half of the screen. Also: How to choose the right Linux desktop distribution for youZorinOS 18 does take this one step further by allowing you to create your own tiling layouts, customize the tiling behavior, enable auto-tiling and smart window suggestions, and create custom keyboard shortcuts for an even more efficient tiling experience.Once you get used to this version of tiling, you won't want to go back to manual placement. Web appsIf you're not already using web apps, you need to start now, and ZorinOS makes this easy.What are web apps? Imagine opening a website in a browser window that doesn't include the usual controls and toolbars found in a traditional browser. Instead, you open that site in a window that makes it look like the website is a traditional application.
Creating a ZDNET web app on ZorinOS 18 beta. Jack Wallen/ZDNETFor example, you can create a web app for the ZDNET site. Once you've done that, locate your new ZDNET web app in the desktop menu, click it, and the web app window opens with the ZDNET site at the ready. You can create web apps for any website you use (such as Office 365, Google Docs, etc).Online account integrationIf you're a Microsoft OneDrive user, you can now enjoy integration with the cloud service. This goes along with the usual suspects, such as Google Workspace, Microsoft 365, Nextcloud, Microsoft Exchange, IMAP/SMTP, WebDAV, and Kerberos.
Once they get the bugs worked out, connecting to your OneDrive account will be easy. Jack Wallen/ZDNETI will say, however, that the beta version did have problems making the connection between ZorinOS and my OneDrive account. Even after connecting my account, it seemed the only integration was with Mail. Turns out, to integrate OneDrive, you don't actually click the Microsoft option; you click the Microsoft 365 option, where you are required to enter your Client ID or your Tenant ID. Even after successful authentication via the default Brave browser, when attempting to connect Office 365 to ZorinOS, I received the unauthorized_client: The client does not exist or is not enabled for consumers error.Also: You can try Linux without ditching Windows first - here's howI also attempted to connect my Google account, but (as I've mentioned before), using passkeys with Google is a hair-pulling experience, and it often does not work (please, Google, when I click "Try another way," actually give me another way to authenticate).So, the online accounts feature is a bit problematic, but I'm not ready to say this is the fault of ZorinOS 18 beta.Misc additions/changesThere are several other new features and updates found in ZorinOS 18 beta, such as:An expanded built-in database to help detect installer files for Windows applications (over 170 apps), which will suggest alternative applicationsNew theme colors (yellow and brown)Improved systemwide performanceSearch everywhere in FilesAn improved Zorin Menu (including multi-monitor support)Windows open in the center of your screen by defaultBetter sound quality with lower latencyExpanded hardware supportLong-term support until 2029All-in-all, the ZorinOS team has taken a great Linux desktop OS and made it even better. Once the stable release is available, I would highly suggest you give ZorinOS a try. If you're curious, you can always install the beta to see how well it's coming along. Do this by downloading the ISO, burning it to a USB drive, inserting the USB drive into a spare machine, booting up, and installing. Or, you could spin up a ZorinOS 18 beta virtual machine with the help of VirtualBox.Also: 7 things every Linux beginner should know before downloading their first distroOpen Source
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to easily switch your PC from Windows to Linux Mint - for free
Just got Linux Mint 22.2? Two more versions are coming soon - and they're big
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use