Kitchen Decor & Style - Home & Living | Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Home
Home & Living
Home Decor
Home Decor Show off your style in every room with these expert ideas for home and kitchen decor. Get inspired by pretty tablescapes, inspiring kitchen themes, color schemes and more.
View More in:
Houseplants
Add Filter
Home Decor
Stuff We Love Home
Houseplants
Outdoor Living
Christmas
Entertaining & Hosting
Stuff We Love Kitchen
Product Tests
Gardening
Trends
Fall
Easter
Halloween
Cleaning & Organizing
Summer
Thanksgiving
Baby Shower
Backyard Entertaining
Bridal Shower
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Organizing Ideas
People in Food
Beverages
Birthday
Family & Parenting
New Products
St. Patrick's Day
Test Kitchen Tips
Winter
Clear Filters
7 Flower Subscription Services Perfect for You (or Your Best Bud)
Need an easy way to cheer up your home (or your BFF)? Try a flower subscription box! We tested 10 companies to evaluate the best flower subscription picks.
The Best Flower Delivery Services in 2024
Want to send a sweet surprise? We tested 11 flower delivery services to find the freshest blooms. Here are the...
Tumble Rugs Review: Do These Washable Rugs Really Live Up to the Hype?
We tested a Tumble washable rug for three months. Here's how it went.
Big Blanket Review: After Two Years of Testing, This Massive Blanket Is My Go-To for Mo...
This self-proclaimed blanket hog has finally met her match!
Lola Blankets Review: This Viral Blanket Might Be the Softest We’ve Ever Tried
Looking for a luxe gift that’s cozy, stylish and versatile? We tested the popular Lola Blanket to see if it’s...
The Best Faux Fur Blankets for Chilly Nights
Buttery-soft and editor-approved, these faux fur blankets instantly upgrade your space and are next-level cozy.
The 4 Best Candle Warmer Lamps Our Editors Have Tested
Keep your candles glowing longer with the best candle warmer lamps tested by our editors.
3 Vintage Cow Creamers to Look for at the Thrift Store
Kitschy yet so cute, vintage cow creamers are more valuable than you'd think.
21 of the Best Low-Light Houseplants
Snag one of these low-light houseplants so you can have some green in every corner of your home.
20 Pretty Accessories to Dress Up Your Home and Kitchen This Fall
Can you smell the pumpkin spice? We're swooning over this fall kitchen and home decor. Scoop some up to add...
5 Best Plant of the Month Clubs for Budding Plant Parents (And Pros)
A plant of the month club is the perfect way to explore your green thumb—no decisions or know-how required.
The Best Modular Sectional Couches for a Comfortable Movie Night, Tested by Our Team
Fire up the projector and grab a bowl of popcorn! According to our tests, these are the best modular sectional...
6 Best Candle Subscription Boxes [Tested and Reviewed]
A candle subscription box (or "candle of the month club") is a fun way to explore new scents. They also...
The 8 Best Kitchen and Dining Room Tables of 2025, Tested and Reviewed
Whether you're looking to enjoy a holiday meal with friends or simply need a space to enjoy breakfast with your...
The Best Rugs for Your Kitchen Area, According to Our Product Testing Team
The best kitchen rugs are stylish, nonslip and keep spills and dirt from ruining the floor. Here are the best...
The Best Dining Chairs for Eating and Entertaining in 2025
Complete your dining set with one of the best dining chairs for comfortable seating around the table.
The 4 Best Extendable Kitchen and Dining Tables for Families, Tested
No space, no problem—the best extendable dining table will give you all the seating room you need
Bath & Body Works JUST Released Its Halloween Collection
Bath & Body Works has a pumpkin spice-scented candle? Yes, please.
If You See a Gold Porch Light, This Is What It Means
Like red, green and purple porch lights, gold porch lights also have a meaning behind them. Here are the three...
How to Make Easy DIY Pumpkin Candleholders
This fall simple craft is budget-friendly, too.
The 13 Best Blankets of 2025, According to Our Tests
We found the best blankets for gifting, home decor, cozying up and outdoor adventures. Here are the top picks, all...
Everything You Need to Know About Air Plants
Air plants are the super cool, spiky rosettes you see in hanging bowls or on driftwood at garden stores. They...
Taste of Home Shopping Wins: Everything Our Editors Are Loving for Cozy Season
From pumpkin-scented decor to a spooky bat wine opener, here are the products our shopping editors can't stop talking about...
How to Make the Cheesecloth Ghosts That Are All Over TikTok Right Now
This craft is so simple—and the results are to die for!
18 Air-Purifying Plants for Every Room in Your Home
Not only do plants brighten your home, but some can even double as natural air-purifiers! These are some of our...
Sign up for recipes to your inbox
Recipes from real home cooks, tested in our kitchens and delivered right to your inbox!
Sign Up
Subscribe &						SAVE
Save Up To 80%!
Subscribe Now
Color-Changing Ghost Candles Are the Spooky Season Decorations of Your Dreams
Spooky season is right around the corner, and Michaels obviously has the perfect decor for Halloween.
20 Types of Air Plants That Will Brighten Your Home with Barely Any Work
Did you know that there are hundreds of types of air plants? These low-maintenance plants, which are from the Tillandsia...
4 Simmer Pot Recipes That’ll Make Your Home Smell Heavenly
Don't even worry about lighting a candle! Instead, put together a simmer pot, aka stovetop potpourri.
2 Things to Do with Cucumber Peels for Healthy Plants
This plant care DIY is the perfect way to use cucumber peels.
15 of the Best Barbiecore Kitchen Finds
Create your dream Barbie kitchen with these pretty pink kitchen finds.
How to Grow Basil Indoors and When to Harvest It
Wondering how to grow basil indoors? A sunny window or an inexpensive grow light combined with a packet of seeds...
1
2
3
…
6
Next Page »
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box