AI & Tools for Software Companies | Software Development Companies
This is the Trace Id: 8958b6360dc62fc06ef436a6c3ec94a7
Skip to main content
Microsoft
Software Development Companies
Software Development Companies
Software Development Companies
Home
AI developer tools
Develop apps & agents
Replicate to Microsoft
Scale your business
Grow sales
Microsoft Marketplace
Value calculator
Offers & benefits
Overview
Azure trial
ISV Success
Marketplace Rewards
Microsoft for Startups
App advisor
Resources
Knowledge Center
Events
View all resources
More
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
Let’s build the future together
Build, innovate, and scale solutions faster with pioneering generative AI, best-in-class developer tools, and a partner committed to your success.
Get started with Azure
Explore Azure AI Foundry
AI-powered assistant
Not sure where to start? Try the AI powered assistant.
How can I create AI apps?
How can I grow my business?
Overview
Overview
Use cases
Success stories
Get started
Resources
Get started with Azure
Get started with Azure
OVERVIEW
Build and scale AI software and agents on a cloud you can trust
Differentiate with AI-powered experiences
Gain a competitive edge by developing intelligent applications safeguarded by industry-leading data privacy and security.
Transform your development experience and ship faster
Innovate rapidly with personalized technical guidance and comprehensive platforms that streamline development.
Expand your reach and get to the next level of growth
Access more customers, sellers, and partners through Microsoft 365 Copilot plugins and the Microsoft marketplace.
USE CASES
Learn more about the stack that fuels what's next
Differentiate with AI
Transform development
Expand your reach
Previous
Next
Streamline model fine-tuning
Enable more precision for your AI deployment with end-to-end tooling and partnerships that simplify data preparation, experiment tracking, and model customization.
Explore Azure AI Foundry
Increase usage through personalized journeys
Analyze user behavior, preferences, and historical data to create personalized user experiences with access to over 1,600 models and streamlined data integrations. Deliver highly relevant recommendations, customize features, and make every experience unique.
Explore Azure Machine Learning
Customize and scale AI agents
Rapidly develop and deploy AI agents that operate alongside human employees—or independently—using the knowledge and action tools that you provide. Scale to multi-agent applications with open-source frameworks to achieve complex tasks and automate business processes.
Explore Azure AI Agent Service
Retain complete ownership of your data
Rest easy knowing that model fine-tuning stays in your subscription and never moves into foundation models. Your data is encrypted using Customer Managed Keys and protected by comprehensive compliance and security controls.
Explore Azure
Speed up workflows and boost agility
Increase release cycle agility by 55%, spend less time on repetitive tasks, and free up developers to focus on work that matters.
Explore GitHub Enterprise
Unify your AI workflow from beginning to end
Move quickly from idea to cloud with a serverless platform that unites services across models, search, agents, and monitoring into one cohesive environment.
Explore Azure AI Foundry SDK
Effortlessly experiment with multiple models
Rapidly iterate and discover the optimal model for your applications through a consistent Representational State Transfer (REST) interface, multi-language software development kits (SDKs), and integrations with open-source software (OSS) tools like LangChain.
Explore Azure Model Inference API
Empower developers with free resources and technical guidance
Get guidance throughout your app-building journey with one-on-one technical consultations, free developer tool licenses and sandbox credits—plus curated content that includes code samples, client libraries, and reference architectures.
Explore ISV Success
Optimize data ingestion and usage
Eliminate the need to separately collect and prepare data for each engine. Instead, gather data from various services and store it in one lake that all workloads can access.
Explore Microsoft Fabric
Scale globally with less complexity
Build on the cloud with more global regions and data residency options than any other provider. Sell through a marketplace that handles invoicing, taxes, and currencies for you in over 100 countries.
Explore the Microsoft marketplace
Tap into the extensive Microsoft Teams and Copilot user base
Build and publish plugins to reach over 320 million users on Teams. Software companies can purchase and manage licenses to your solution directly from Teams, the Microsoft marketplace, or with their committed Azure cloud spend.
Explore the Microsoft Teams Toolkit
Widen your network of partners
Grow your app sales through the Microsoft marketplace by engaging the extensive Microsoft partner ecosystem, and extend margin through private offers.
Explore the Microsoft Partner Network
Differentiate and attract more customers
Prioritize the right opportunities and close more deals with one-on-one guidance for optimizing your marketplace listing, customer propensity scoring, and Azure sponsorship.  High-performing software development companies can take advantage of targeted financial incentives and further stand out with certified software designations.
Explore Marketplace Rewards
Back to tabs
SUCCESS STORIES
Code that changed the game
See how development teams from early-stage startups to global enterprises are disrupting the status quo.
Previous Slide
Next Slide
“We are integrated with Azure on every layer of the stack, ensuring that AI teams can build and scale models with minimal friction.”
Sasha Manuilova, Director of Partnerships
Products and services
Microsoft marketplace
Microsoft for Startups
Read their story
Watch now
“We’re anticipating that our customers will be able to capture more problems and will resolve them faster using Azure AI.”
Joe Bohman, Executive Vice President
Products and services
Azure AI Foundry
Azure Machine Learning
Read their story
“Azure and Microsoft are immense innovators in the AI space. They’re very aligned with the areas of innovation that we’re continuing to move toward.”
Adel Farahmand, VP, Business Development & Partnerships
Products and services
Microsoft marketplace
Microsoft for Startups
Azure
Read their story
"We always want to close deals through marketplace, because it just streamlines everything for us - as well as our customers."
Sudhir Hasbe, Chief Product Officer
Products and services
Microsoft Fabric
Microsoft marketplace
ISV Success
Watch now
“Haut.AI’s entire AI ecosystem is built on Microsoft tools, including Azure AI and Machine Learning Studio, providing the highest level of security, reliability, and scalability.”
Anastasia Georgievskaya, CEO & Co-Founder
Products and services
Microsoft for Startups
Azure
Read their story
Back to carousel navigation controls
GET STARTED
Take your software to the next level with AI
Discover how Microsoft helps software development companies build momentum, lead with innovation, and accelerate success—regardless of what stage you’re in.
GET STARTED
GET STARTED Mobile Dropdown
Try Azure for free
Sell through marketplace
Get support for startups
Become an AI partner
Azure AI Foundry
Build your first AI app in 10 minutes or less
Jump-start your project with instant access to a coding environment that’s pre-configured and customizable and that seamlessly works with VSCode and GitHub.
Skip the lengthy sign-up and configuration and get your proof of concept up in three minutes.
Use proven Azure templates to easily guide your build.
Develop the way you want to with fully integrated tools so you can focus on building, not the tools.
Get started for free
Learn more
ISV Success
Accelerate early-stage growth
Access benefits and resources designed to help software development companies build well-architected applications, publish to the Microsoft marketplace, and grow their sales.
Get $126,000 of value at no cost to you for the first year.
Explore a free cloud sandbox of developer tools.
Build and sell with more confidence thanks to one-on-one technical consults with AI and marketplace experts.
Enroll now
Learn more
Microsoft for Startups
Solve startup challenges with confidence
Designed for founders that are ready to grow their business, the Microsoft for Startups program provides benefits and support that help you build the best big idea.
Free Azure credits to help you get started building quickly.
Access AI tools for software development startups.
Join events and get resources that help your startup build better and sell faster.
Enroll now
Learn more
Microsoft AI Cloud Partner Program
Build and sell your solutions at scale
Enroll at no cost and get access to exclusive tools, benefits, and resources to help you drive growth and deliver high-performing, customer-centric AI solutions.
Go to market faster with Microsoft marketing resources.
Improve your operations with Microsoft product licenses.
Keep your software company running smoothly with technical advisory hours and product support.
Enroll now
Learn more
Back to tabs
RESOURCES
Learn more from development experts
Featured
Events
Blogs & news
Previous
Next
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Guide
Accelerate your cloud adoption journey with these cloud adoption frameworks
Explore scenarios that unify technical and nontechnical considerations in this comprehensive guide.
Read more
Webinar
Find out what’s new in ISV Success—including AI benefits
Learn about new and expanded benefits for software development companies building AI solutions.
Watch now
Article
Look into the future of AI innovation
Learn how AI helps accelerate cloud migration, app modernization, and analytics.
Read more
Back to carousel navigation controls
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Event
Refactor your skills @Build
Discover the latest language and platform updates across topics like AI, cloud, and data and analytics.
Register now
ISV AI Envisioning Day
Identify and prioritize use cases for AI solutions
Find AI-powered solution opportunities and take the next step in your planning and development.
Register now
ISV AI Envisioning Day
Explore frameworks for developing AI solutions
Get the know-how you need, including technical and business considerations, to build generative AI apps.
Register now
Back to carousel navigation controls
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Blog
Explore the Microsoft for Startups blog
Discover how Microsoft for Startups is helping founders at every stage.
Read more
Expert articles
Visit the Knowledge Center
Deepen your marketplace knowledge, gain competitive insights, and explore a variety of new growth strategies.
Read more
Business blog
Get updates on Azure AI Foundry
Find the latest news, updates, and announcements from experts at the Microsoft Azure blog.
Read more
Developer blog
Stay updated with the newest features and releases
Your source for learning and building with our models, agents, and tools from expert developers.
Read more
Back to carousel navigation controls
Back to tabs
Not sure where to start?
Get personalized resources and step-by-step guidance from app advisor.
Take the quiz
What's new
Surface Pro
Surface Laptop
Surface Laptop Studio 2
Copilot for organizations
Copilot for personal use
AI in Windows
Explore Microsoft products
Windows 11 apps
Microsoft Store
Account profile
Download Center
Microsoft Store support
Returns
Order tracking
Certified Refurbished
Microsoft Store Promise
Flexible Payments
Education
Microsoft in education
Devices for education
Microsoft Teams for Education
Microsoft 365 Education
How to buy for your school
Educator training and development
Deals for students and parents
AI for education
Business
Microsoft Cloud
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Small Business
Developer & IT
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Azure Marketplace
AppSource
Visual Studio
Company
Careers
About Microsoft
Company news
Privacy at Microsoft
Investors
Diversity and inclusion
Accessibility
Sustainability
English (United States)
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Consumer Health Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Microsoft
Privacy
Manage cookies
Terms of use
Trademarks
Safety & eco
Recycling
About our ads
© Microsoft 2025
AI-powered assistant
Created with Copilot Studio
AI-powered assistant Created with Copilot Studio
Can we help you?
AI-powered assistant is available 24x7.
Chat now
No thanks