Best Internet Providers in Houston, Texas - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Best Internet Providers in Houston, Texas
Written by
Trey Paul
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Aug 9, 2025
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
0  Internet providers
90001
Edit ZIP code
How our sort order works
Sort by:
Recommended
Showing 0 of 0
What is the best internet provider in Houston?CNET's pick for the best internet service provider in Houston is AT&T Fiber, and it's not hard to see why. Not only does AT&T boast high customer satisfaction, but it also offers symmetrical download and upload speeds with plans ranging from $55 to $245. The latter price is for anyone sizing up the impressive 5GB option. However, there is a small snag. AT&T Fiber coverage does not extend to all Houston neighborhoods, so it's good to look at alternatives like Xfinity and Verizon 5G Home Internet, just in case your address is outside of the service area.If you're seeking more affordable internet in the Houston area, there are plenty of options available. The cheapest internet service provider in Houston is Astound Broadband, with plans starting at just $30 a month and speeds up to 300 Mbps. You might also consider T-Mobile or Verizon, which both start at $50 a month, but can drop as low as $35 per month if you bundle them with a phone plan. For Houston residents looking for speed, then AT&T Fiber and local internet provider Tachus Fiber have the plans you need. Each provider offers up to 5 gigabits of symmetrical speed, costing $245 and $139 per month, respectively.Houston internet providers compared
ProviderInternet technologyMonthly price rangeSpeed rangeMonthly equipment costsData capContractCNET review score
Astound Broadband Read full review Cable$30-$70300-1,500MbpsFree modem, $5 for Whole-home Wi-Fi (optional)NoneNone7 AT&T Internet Air Read full review Fixed wireless$6075-225MbpsNoneNoneNone7.4 AT&T Fiber Read full review Fiber$55-$245300-5,000MbpsNoneNoneNone7.4Brightspeed DSL$55Up to 140Mbps (varies by location)$15 modem (optional)NoneNone6.6 Optimum Read full review Cable$40-$60300-940MbpsNoneNoneNone6.2Tachus Fiber$65-$139300-5,000Mbps NoneNoneNoneN/A T-Mobile Home Internet Read full review Fixed wireless$50-$70 ($35-$55 for eligible mobile customers with autopay)87-415MbpsNoneNoneNone7.4 Verizon 5G Home Internet Read full review Fixed wireless$50-$70 ($35-$55 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans and autopay)50-250MbpsNoneNoneNone7.2 Xfinity Read full review Cable$55-$85400-2,100Mbps$15-$25 included in some plans1.2TB on some plans1 year on some plans7
Show more (4 items)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.Other available internet providers in HoustonBeyond the three picks above, several other broadband choices exist in the Houston metro area. Some can be found only in small pockets of the city, while others are mainly located in the city suburbs. There are some compelling choices here, even though they're not as widely available.Astound Broadband: This cable internet provider, known regionally as Grande, offers some of Houston's most competitive starting rates. Its starting price of $30 a month for a 300Mbps plan comes out to an affordable 10 cents per Mbps. The rub is that Astound's price increases are some of the steepest in the industry.Brightspeed: You'll want to research this because, depending on your location, you may be dealing with mostly DSL coverage for the Houston area (which can be as low as 20Mbps), or if you're in the Kingwood area, you might see the company's much more compelling fiber product.Kinetic by Windstream: This DSL and fiber provider is available in just a few small pockets within the Houston city limits. Most of that availability is in the southern suburb of Sugar Land. You'll mostly deal with its DSL service rather than the faster fiber-optic plans.Optimum: First off, I can imagine you might be confused. Suddenlink is the provider you're probably familiar with in the Houston area. Its parent company, Altice USA, renamed it Optimum in 2022. In any case, Optimum service is scattered lightly throughout the metro area but has a heavier density north of the city in Conroe and Kingwood. This cable ISP is notable for its highly competitive starting rates, some of the most affordable in the area.Tachus: This local ISP, founded in 2018, is notable for its community presence and commitment to building 100% fiber-to-the-home networks within the greater Houston metropolitan area. It's now available to over 50,000 homes in Atascocita, Conroe, East Montgomery County, Kingwood, Magnolia, Oak Ridge County North and The Woodlands. There are five fiber plans, depending on what is available at your location, -- 300Mbps, 600Mbps, 1Gbps, 2.5Gbps and 5Gbps -- ranging from $65 to $139 a month, with no data caps and no contracts. A modem rental is included in the monthly price, but you'll need to provide your own router or rent one for as low as $6 per month.T-Mobile Home Internet: T-Mobile uses its 5G and 4G LTE networks to power its fixed wireless home internet product, which is available to over 50 million homes nationwide and approximately 53% of residents in the greater Houston area. Check your address on the T-Mobile site to see if you're serviceable since not all who have T-Mobile cell service at home are eligible for the home internet service. In any case, it's an intriguing offering that includes installation fees, taxes and equipment rental under its $55-a-month fee, with no data caps or contracts.
Getty ImagesCheap internet options in HoustonThe average starting price for internet service in Houston is just over $46 a month, but a few providers offer plans cheaper than that.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
Astound Broadband offers the lowest starting price in Houston. Astound Broadband's $30 plan grants download speeds up to 300Mbps and includes your equipment rental.What's the cheapest internet plan in Houston?
ProviderStarting monthly priceMax download speedMonthly equipment fee
Astound Broadband 300 Read full review $30300MbpsFree modem; $5 for Whole-home Wi-Fi (optional) Optimum 500 Read full review $50500MbpsNone Verizon 5G Home Internet Read full review $50 ($35 with eligible mobile plan and autopay)85MbpsNone T-Mobile Home Internet Read full review $50 ($35 with eligible mobile plan and autopay)87-318MbpsNone Xfinity
Read full review $55400Mbps$15 modem (optional) AT&T Fiber 300 Read full review $55300MbpsNoneTachus 300 $65300MbpsNone
Show more (2 items)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.How to find internet deals and promotions in HoustonThe best internet deals and top promotions in Houston depend on what discounts are available during a given time. Most deals are short-lived, but we look frequently for the latest offers. Houston internet providers, such as Xfinity, Astound Broadband and Optimum, may offer lower introductory pricing or streaming add-ons for a limited time. Many, including AT&T and Verizon, run the same standard pricing year-round. For a more extensive list of promos, check out our guide on the best internet deals.How fast is Houston broadband?Houston, we have a problem. Although it's one of the top five most populated metros in the US, H-Town couldn't crack the top 50 on Ookla's list of the country's fastest cities for broadband. (Disclosure: Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.)Per the speed-testing site' Ookla's most recent reporting, Houston managed to clock in at only No. 58, with a median download speed of around 227Mbps. By contrast, its fellow Lone Star State cities of Austin, Corpus Christi, El Paso, Fort Worth and San Antonio all placed in the top 15. Other Texas towns that placed higher on the speed chart -- adding insult to injury -- include Arlington, Garland, Irving, Lubbock, Laredo and Plano. Some small consolation: Houston finished well ahead of Dallas, which was in the bottom 3.Some Houstonians may have access to the splashy 5Gbps plans from AT&T which cost $245.Fastest internet plans in Houston
ProviderStarting priceMax download speedMax upload speedData capConnection type
AT&T Fiber 5000 Read full review $2455,000Mbps5,000MbpsNoneFiberTachus Fiber 5 Gig $1395,000Mbps5,000MbpsNoneFiberTachus Fiber 2.5 Gig
$892,500Mbps2,500MbpsNoneFiber AT&T Fiber 2000 Read full review $1452,000Mbps2,000MbpsNoneFiber Xfinity Gigabit X2 Read full review $852,100Mbps200Mbps1.2TBCable Astound 1500 Read full review $701,500Mbps1,000MbpsNoneCable Astound Broadband 1000 Read full review $601,000Mbps50MbpsNoneCable AT&T Fiber 1000 Read full review $801,000Mbps1,000MbpsNoneFiberTachus Gig $791,000Mbps1,000MbpsNoneFiber Xfinity Gigabit Read full review $651,100Mbps20Mbps1.2TB if using own equipment; none if renting with Xfinity Cable Optimum Gig Read full review $60940Mbps35MbpsNoneCable
Show more (6 items)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.Internet providers in popular cities near HoustonBest internet providers in AustinBest internet providers in ConroeBest internet providers in Corpus ChristiBest internet providers in KatyBest internet providers in San AntonioBest internet providers in SpringBest internet providers in Sugar LandSee all results for internet providers in Texas.What’s a good internet speed?Most internet connection plans can now handle basic productivity and communication tasks. If you're looking for an internet plan that can accommodate videoconferencing, streaming video or gaming, you'll have a better experience with a more robust connection. Here's an overview of the recommended minimum download speeds for various applications, according to the FCC. Note that these are only guidelines and that internet speed, service and performance vary by connection type, provider and address.For more information, refer to our guide on how much internet speed you really need.0 to 5Mbps allows you to tackle the basics: browsing the internet, sending and receiving email and streaming low-quality video.5 to 40Mbps gives you higher-quality video streaming and videoconferencing.40 to 100Mbps should give one user sufficient bandwidth to satisfy the demands of modern telecommuting, video streaming and online gaming. 100 to 500Mbps allows one to two users to simultaneously engage in high-bandwidth activities like videoconferencing, streaming and online gaming. 500 to 1,000Mbps allows three or more users to engage in high-bandwidth activities at the same time.How CNET chose the best internet providers in HoustonInternet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it’s impractical to personally test every ISP in a given city. What’s our approach? We start by researching the pricing, availability and speed information, drawing on our own historical ISP data, the provider sites and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov.It doesn't end there: We go to the FCC's website to check our data and ensure we consider every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. We look at sources, including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, to evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of publication. Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions: Does the provider offer access to reasonably fast internet speeds? Do customers get decent value for what they're paying? Are customers happy with their service? While the answer to those questions is often layered and complex, the providers who come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend. When selecting the cheapest internet service, we look for the plans with the lowest monthly fee, although we also factor in things like price increases, equipment fees and contracts. Choosing the fastest internet service is relatively straightforward. We look at advertised upload and download speeds and consider real-world speed data from sources like Ookla and FCC reports.To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page.What's the final word on Houston internet providers?Houston offers several high-speed internet choices. You can get hooked up with home internet from fast fiber options, including AT&T and local internet service provider Tachus. You could hop online via cable connections from Optimum. You could join the 5G home internet movement by trying Verizon 5G Home Internet or T-Mobile Home Internet.Comcast's cable internet offering of Xfinity has Houston covered with the most extensive availability across the metro area. As we say in our CNET home internet reviews, a fiber internet connection outperforms cable almost every time. If you can access a fiber provider in the area -- including AT&T Fiber, Consolidated Communications or Tachus -- don't hesitate to sign on the virtual dotted line. Best internet providers in Houston FAQs
Which internet service provider has the most coverage in Houston?
More than a dozen different ISPs are in the greater Houston metro, including satellite internet providers like Hughesnet, Starlink and Viasat (all three are available to 100% of the area, according to the FCC). Besides those satellite providers, Xfinity covers the most extensive area. You can find Comcast's cable service as far as Conroe to the north, East Bernard to the west, Baytown to the east, and Freeport and Galveston to the south.
Show more
Is fiber internet available in Houston?
Yes. You can find fiber internet throughout H-Town. Houston's top fiber internet providers include AT&T Fiber and Tachus Fiber. It should also be noted that a small percentage of Xfinity locations are also eligible for fiber service, but it first requires a site survey to ascertain if the address is serviceable.
Show more
What internet provider has the fastest speeds in Houston?
The fastest internet speed you can currently get in Houston is 5Gbps (5,000Mbps), provided by AT&T and Tachus. Per Ookla's latest findings, the provider with the fastest average download speeds in Houston is AT&T, with a median download speed of approximately 257Mbps.
Show more
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.