Best Prime Day Deals Still Remaining: Shop These Top Deals Before They Disappear - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Article updated on Jul 12, 2025
Deals
Best Prime Day Deals Still Remaining: Shop These Top Deals Before They Disappear
Prime Day has come and gone, but you can still snag deals from Apple, Sony, Samsung and more. Shop our curated list of the best bargains still available.
By
Adrian Marlow
60 curated items on sale
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert deal-hunting staff showcases the best price drops and discounts from reputable sellers daily. If you make a purchase using our links, CNET may earn a commission.
Prime Day 2025 is over, but there are some excellent deals still lingering. I’ve got all the best Prime Day deals for you to shop right now. You can still secure must-haves at great prices if you act before it's too late. From top picks under $25 to can't-miss steals under $100, there’s a lot to comb through -- but with the best bargains quickly disappearing, there's no time to hesitate.Don't worry, I'm putting my years of CNET deal-hunting experience to work for you. I'm still monitoring Amazon and its competitors around the clock to find the absolute best Prime Day deals so you don't have to. This is your central hub to the elite savings on tech, home essentials and more.Many of the limited-time offers have already disappeared, but here's what's still around. Let's get you straight to the savings that matter.Find your Amazon dealsYou can also see great Prime Day picks from our sibling brands: Mashable, PCMag, ZDNET and Lifehacker.Hottest Prime Day dealsHere are some eye-catching savings on must-haves you won't want to miss.
Apple Watch Series 10: $279 CNET experts tested Apple's latest wearable, and it's now the top smartwatch of 2025. Grab it at a record-low price of just $279 right now. Lexy Savvides, CNET's former Editor at Large, noted, "In many ways, the Series 10 feels like an Apple Watch Ultra lite, thanks to a bigger screen and a suite of new health and fitness tools." This GPS model has a 42mm Always-On Retina display and all the top fitness and connection features you'd expect from our highest-recommended model.
Details
Save $119
$279 at Amazon
Close
Apple M3 iPad Air (11-inch): $479 Apple's M3 iPad Air is its fastest yet, and it comes with a stunning 11-inch Liquid Retina display and superfast Wi-Fi 6E connectivity.
Details
Save $120
$479 at Amazon
Close
DJI Osmo Mobile 7P: $125 DJI is best known for its amazing drones, but the brand also makes useful accessories for photographers and content creators. This versatile Osmo Mobile 7P smartphone gimbal is currently on sale for an all-time low of $125.
Details
Save $24
$125 at Amazon
Close
Apple AirPods 4: $119 The latest AirPods with active noise cancellation are dust-, sweat- and water-resistant, perfect for all your summer adventures. Even the spatial audio works with compatible content in supported apps. The non-ANC model is also at a discount, for $89.
Details
Save $60
$119 at Amazon
Close
Anker Soundcore Boom 2 Bluetooth speaker: $90 The Anker Soundcore Boom 2 is an excellent value according to our experts. It's compact, IPX7 waterproof and has an impressive sound. It also had cool LED lighting and a solid battery life. It even won an Editors' Choice Award and is our favorite Bluetooth speaker overall for 2025.
Details
Save $50
$90 at Amazon
Close
Beats Powerbeats Pro 2: $180 The Powerbeats Pro 2 are now at their lowest price ever -- $180. That's a $70 discount. They're equipped with the Apple H2 chip, which puts them on par with the AirPods Pro 2. Plus, they have an ear hook to stay in place while you're working out. Read more about them in this testimonial from CNET's own Prakhar Khanna.
Details
Save $70
$180 at Amazon
Close
Best headphone and audio Prime Day dealsThere are tons of incredible deals on speakers, headphones and earbuds this Prime Day, making it a great time to upgrade.
Beats Pill: $98 Thanks to its sleek design, the Beats Pill has landed on our list of the best Bluetooth speakers of 2025. Our reviewer was impressed by its sound quality -- particularly the bass definition thanks to its new updated woofer system -- as well as the relative volume for its size. It also supports lossless audio with a wired USB-C connection, and boasts an IP67 weather-resistance rating so you can take it just about anywhere.
Details
Save $52
$98 at Amazon
Close
Soundcore P40i by Anker: $60
These super-budget-friendly earbuds are 14% off during the final hours of Amazon's Prime Day sale. Get big bass, up to 60 hours of playtime, adaptive noise cancellation and more -- all for $60. These are also our top pick for the best cheap wireless earbuds.
Details
Save $10
$60 at Amazon
Close
Apple AirPods Pro (2nd gen): $149 The AirPods Pro 2 are a fan favorite for good reason. They sport excellent sound quality, with active noise canceling, an adaptive transparency mode and spatial audio -- all powered by Apple's H2 chip.
Details
Save: $100
$149 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day headphone and audio deals: Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro earbuds: $175 (save $75). These comfortable Galaxy earbuds offer adaptive noise canceling with Galaxy AI and translate foreign languages in real time.Best laptops, tablets and computers in Prime Day dealsI've found laptop and tablet bargains so you can get exactly what you need most at a great price.
Apple MacBook Air M4 (13-inch): $849 The M4 MacBook Air is the latest model in Apple's lightweight lineup and our overall favorite laptop on the market right now. The basic model comes with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of storage, and there are plenty of more advanced configurations also on sale -- including the 15-inch model for people who prefer a larger display.
Details
Save $150
$849 at Amazon
Close
Samsung Galaxy Book 5 Pro: $1,300 This model has a massive and impressive 16-inch AMOLED touchscreen with 3K resolution. Plus, it comes equipped with 16GB of RAM, 1TB SSD storage and Dolby Atmos sound, along with Microsoft 360 Copilot and support for AI features. This is an incredible machine if you need a powerhouse.
Details
Save $350
$1,300 at Best Buy
Close
Apple M4 Mac Mini: $499 Apple's smallest computer is also one of CNET's picks for the best desktop computers of 2025. Clip the on-page coupon for the full discount.
Details
Save $100
$499 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day laptop, tablet and computer deals: HP Victus: $650 (save $250). This budget-friendly gaming laptop has a 144Hz refresh rate, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050 graphics card, 16GB of RAM and 512GB of storage for a smooth and responsive gaming experience.Up to $800 off PCs and Laptops at Best Buy. Best Buy has a bunch of PCs and laptops with decent money off for all manner of users.Best TV and streaming Prime Day deals Our shopping experts have found tons of TV deals this Prime Day. Here are some highlights.
TCL 55-inch Class QM7K Series QLED Google TV: $598 This Google TV-powered TV combines QLED and OLED techniques to improve blacklighting precision, so blacks stay deep while colors pop. Support for 240Hz variable refresh rate makes this big screen ideal for fast-paced and competitive games.
Details
Save $602
$598 at Amazon
Close
Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K: $25 Take half off the newest Amazon Fire Stick right now at Amazon. It gives you a crystal-clear 4K picture, plus it's AI-powered and uses Wi-Fi 6, so it's pretty quick, too.
Details
Save $25
$25 at Amazon
Close
Anker Nebula Capsule 3 GTV: $360 This compact Nebula projector allows you to enjoy shows and movies on a massive screen practically anywhere. It's roughly the size of a 16-ounce can, so it can be easily carried in your backpack. However, it still boasts a maximum screen size of up to 120 inches. The device also has 1080p HD resolution and 200 lumens of brightness, and a built-in battery for up to 2.5 hours of playback on a single charge.
Details
Save $170
$360 at Amazon
Close
Roku Ultra: $69 At $1 less than its lowest price ever, this 4K media streamer with HDR10+, Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos and support for Wi-Fi 6 is a great find. Roku is our favorite interface and this kit comes with a rechargeable voice remote, too for easy searching.
Details
Save $29
$69 at Amazon
Close
Samsung 98-inch Crystal UHD DU9000 TV: $1,850 This massive 98-inch Samsung TV is 54% off at Woot, dropping the cost to $1,850. It has a 120Hz refresh rate, object tracking sound lite, 4K upscaling and even a game bar to enhance this TV while you're gaming.
Details
Save $2,148
$1,850 at Woot
$1,898 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day TV deals: Roku 75-inch Class Pro Mini-LED QLED 4K TV: $800 (save $900). Entertain in style with a TV that includes a 75-inch display with vibrant colors and a user-friendly Roku interface.Best smart home and networking Prime Day dealsWe've gathered top smart home and networking deals, including some savings on Amazon devices.
Ultraloq Bolt NFC: $150 Never worry about forgetting your keys again with this Ultraloq smart lock. It's got built-in Wi-Fi so you can unlock your door using your phone, or just by tapping it with your Apple HomeKey-compatible device. You can also give guests access during specific times and dates, and it allows you to easily monitor who's coming and going. Be sure to use our exclusive coupon code CNET25 to get the discount.This product has been independently, editorially selected by our expert deals team. The company has paid for highlighted placement on this page.
Details
Save $50 with our exclusive coupon code CNET25
$150 at Ultraloq
Close
TP-Link Tapo A19 Wi-Fi smart LED bulbs (5-pack): $35 With 1100 lumens of brightness and a wide array of color options, these smart bulbs can brighten up any space in your home. You can control them with the Tapo app or via voice control with Alexa, Siri, or Google Assistant to turn them on or off, change the colors and more.
Details
Save $25
$35 at Best Buy
Close
Roku Smart Home smart light strip SE: $15 This light strip from Roku is over 16 feet tall and can add some ambiance to any room in your home. Plus, they're smart lights so you can use your phone to change colors, turn them on or off and more.
Details
Save $8
$15 at Amazon
$15 at Walmart
Close
More smart home and networking Prime Day deals: TP-Link Tapo Smart Plug Mini: $10 (save $10). With this Wi-Fi-enabled smart plug, you can control your appliances from anywhere.Anker Eufy E10 indoor lamp: $70 (save $30). This sleek floor lamp makes it easy to add some mood lighting to your space. It boasts 1,700 lumens of brightness and over 16 million possible colors, so you can always find the perfect hue to fit your vibe.Best phone and wearable Prime Day dealsCheck out deals on smartphones, smartwatches and more that can help you stay connect or assist you in your fitness journey -- all at a great price.
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: $1,070 Our pick for the best premium Android phone, the Galaxy S25 Ultra is now down by well over $300 which makes now a great time to upgrade. Our expert Patrick Holland says it has the "greatest phone screen ever" and that "video features like ability to record in Log format gets the Ultra as close as it's ever been to the iPhone in terms of professional video capture."
Details
Save $350
$1,070 at Amazon
Close
Oura Ring 4: $297 It’s your last chance to save 15% off a new Oura Ring. According to our fitness expert, the Oura Ring deserves a place on your finger because it’s the best overall smart ring right now. These rings are rarely discounted, so if you’re ready to monitor your health stats, now’s the time.
Details
Save $52
$297 at Amazon
Close
Apple Watch SE (2nd gen): $169 The Apple Watch SE 2 is perfect for budget-conscious shoppers who want a smartwatch that's compatible with their existing Apple devices. This deal is for all sizes, but keep in mind that not all colors are in stock.
Details
Save $80
$169 at Amazon
Close
Google Pixel 3: $237 In our testing, the Google Pixel Watch 3 proved impressive, largely due to its sleek design, large screen and fast charging. It's our favorite Android smartwatch, and Lisa Eadicicco, CNET's former tech senior editor, said in her review, "The Pixel Watch 3's upgrades are enough to keep it as my top pick for a general-purpose Android smartwatch. If you're anything like me and consider yourself a casual runner in need of a general-purpose Android watch that's sleek and comfortable, the Pixel Watch 3 won't disappoint." The 41mm model is linked below, but if you want the larger 45mm watch, it is $115 off right now, which means you can grab that for $285.
Details
Save $112
$237 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day deals on wearables: Fitbit Versa 4 smartwatch: $140 (save $60). Monitor your health stats, including heart rate and sleep quality, and get a daily readiness score with the Fitbit Versa 4.Samsung Galaxy Watch 7: $210 (save $90). The Galaxy Watch 7 earned one of the top spots in our testing. Note that this smartwatch is no longer the latest version now that Samsung has unveiled the Galaxy Watch 8 during its Galaxy Unpacked event, but it still has plenty to offer.Best power and tech gadget Prime Day dealsFrom cameras to 3D printers, power banks and other electronics we love, we've found fantastic deals on gadgets galore, including from top brands like Apple.
Rove R2-4K Dual dash cam: $130 Everyone needs a dash cam in this day and age to document crashes and other emergencies on the road. It can help with insurance claims, too. This dash cam bundle includes front and rear cams, as well as a 128GB microSD card. It also has a Sony Starvis 2 sensor and built-in GPS that records location, speed, time and date into the video.
Details
Save $70
$130 at Amazon
Close
Apple AirTags (4-pack): $68 Keep track of your essential items, such as your wallet, keys or luggage, with this convenient four-pack of Apple's item trackers. Connecting it with your iPhone or iPad is simple, and you can share an AirTag with up to five people.
Details
Save $31
$68 at Amazon
Close
Plaud AI: Save up to 20% off Plaud AI is offering up to 20% off its range of AI-powered note-taking hardware and services for a limited time. You'll also get two free gifts with every purchase, too. This product has been independently, editorially selected by our expert deals team. The company has paid for highlighted placement on this page.
Details
Save on AI note-taking
See at Plaud AI
Close
Halo 10,000mAh power bank with integrates cables: $50 This portable charger from Halo has built in cables so you don't have to go looking for them or bring your own. Plus it chargers pretty quickly. It comes in three colors so you can pick which one you like the best. This product has been independently, editorially selected by our expert deals team. The company has paid for highlighted placement on this page.
Details
Save $4
$50 at QVC
Close
Nintendo Switch 2 Mario Kart World bundle: $500 You can now request an invite for the Nintendo Switch 2 Mario Kart World bundle at Amazon for $500. The new gaming console saw the highest global sales of any Nintendo device in its first four days, and every restock we've seen has consistently sold out fast. But we are keeping up with all the latest Switch 2 restock news to help you out, and requesting an invite from Amazon is definitely a good idea if you act fast.
Details
Available by invitation
$500 at Amazon
Close
Sony ZV-1F vlog camera: $448 If you've been wanting to dip your toe into content creation, the Sony ZV-1F is the perfect camera to help you get started. It's easy to use, has an ultrawide-angle lens and even automatically recognizes faces and eyes, so you'll always be in focus.
Details
Save $101
$448 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day power and tech deals: StackSocial Babbel lifetime subscription: $159 (save $44). Ditch the subscription fees and learn over a dozen languages with this top-rated online program, just make sure you use the code LEARN.Bambu Lab A1 Mini Combo 3D printer: $219 (save $80). One of CNET expert James Bricknell's favorite 3D printers, this model is simple to use and "the perfect starting point for anyone looking to get into 3D printing."Baseus Picogo 5,000-mAh Qi2 power bank: $40 (save $30). This magnetic charger can be used with both iPhones and Android phones that support it and even has a handy built-in stand.Best Prime Day home and kitchen discountsScore the top Prime Day deals on everything from kitchen appliances to home essentials.
Alpha Grillers digital meat thermometer: $10 This digital thermometer makes it easy to check the temperature of your food while you're cooking. It can be used for grilling, baking and more to make sure that each dish is being heated to the right temperature.
Details
Save $10
$10 at Amazon
Close
Noco Boost Sport GB20 portable jump starter: $55 Don't get caught with a dead battery. The Noco Boost is a great tool to keep in your car for emergencies. CNET Senior Writer Antuan Goodwin highly recommends this model, noting that, "Its small size is a boon for tucking the jump starter out of the way in your car's trunk, glove compartment or console. The unit charges conveniently via USB type-C and, in my experience, does a great job of sustaining its charge for months in storage, so it'll always be ready when you need it."
Details
Save $15
$55 at Amazon
Close
Breville Barista Express espresso machine: $550 In our testing, this espresso machine brews better espresso than more expensive machines. "You can't beat the Breville Barista Express and its combination of performance, features and price," said Brian Benner, CNET's former senior writer for home, adding that it "consistently pulled the best-tasting coffee bean shots of espresso" in the test group. While it's not the cheapest option, it provides a lot of value, and with $200 off this premium Breville machine, you can bring the local cafe to your home. It comes with all the bells and whistles, including a bean grinder and a milk frother, to save you time and create exactly what you want at home.
Details
Save $200
$550 at Amazon
Close
Dash My Mug ice cream maker: $31 Make your favorite sweet treats on a budget with this single-serving ice cream maker. The My Mug is perfect for small spaces.
Details
Save $9
$31 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day home and kitchen deals: Lodge 12-inch cast iron skillet: $30 (save $10). Lodge has been making some of the best cast iron cookware on the market for over 100 years.Best Prime Day vacuum discountsFrom cordless stick vacuums to robot vacuums, combination vacuum and mops and more, we're highlighting the top deals.
Levoit LVAC-200 vacuum cleaner: $160 Save 20% off our pick for the best cordless vacuum under $200. This lightweight vacuum performs well across most floor types and comes with 5-stage filtration. Our expert said, “The Levoit LVAC-200 proves that you don’t have to spend much money to get a quality cordless vacuum.”
Details
Save $40
$160 at Amazon
Close
Anker Eufy C10: $230 With a 3-liter base station, this Eufy robot vacuum can run for up to 60 days maintenance-free. It also boasts 4,000 Pa of powerful suction and with a slim 2.8-inch design it can easily fit underneath beds, couches and other furniture. It can also map multiple floors of your home, which makes it easy to set custom cleaning schedules and no-go zones.
Details
Save $250
$230 at Amazon
Close
Eufy robot vacuum 3-in-1 E20 with wall-mounted bracket: $350 This bundle comes with the E20 vacuum and the wall mount for easy storage. It has a max suction power of 30,000Pa for the handheld vac and 8,000Pa when in robot mode. This vacuum can be switched between a handheld, robot or stick vacuum. It also won the CES 2025 Best of Innovation award.
Details
Save $340
$350 at Amazon
Close
More Prime Day vacuum deals: Shark AI Ultra robot vacuum: $298 (save $301). With built-in voice control and smart mapping, this intelligent robot can clean your carpets and dump the debris into the included self-emptying base for a hands-free cleaning experience.Dreame X40 Ultra: $700 (save $800). With a whopping 12,000Pa of suction power, this robot vacuum can tackle stubborn dirt, debris and pet hair. Its mopping feature can handle wet messes and stains on hard floors.Best Prime Day mattress savingsNow is a great time to upgrade your mattress and score a great deal. Here are our favorite mattress deals to shop during Prime Day.
Helix With the code CNET27, you can access an exclusive 27% off sale for Helix mattresses. Without this code, you'll snag only 25% off. This sale drops the core Helix Midnight mattress to only $972 for a queen. If you step up a level and want to get one of our favorite beds of all time, check out the Helix Midnight Luxe for only $1,751, down from $2,399.
Details
Get an exclusive 27% off sitewide with code CNET27
See at Helix
Close
EgoHome EgoHome is offering some incredible discounts that can save you up to 50% on mattresses and more sitewide. Plus, you can use the promo code BESTDEAL to score an extra 10% off its premium Black Series mattresses. Other offers include up to 40% off adjustable bed bundles and buy one, get one free for select sheet sets and mattress toppers.This product has been independently, editorially selected by our expert deals team. The company has paid for highlighted placement on this page.
Details
Save up to 50% sitewide + 15% off Black Series mattresses
See at EgoHome
Close
Brooklyn Bedding Brooklyn Bedding makes our overall favorite mattress on the market, and right now you can pick it up for as much as $400 off. You can save 30% sitewide with the promo code FLASH30, which applies to mattresses, bases, pillows, sheets and much more.
Details
Save 30% sitewide
See at Brooklyn Bedding
Close
More Prime Day mattress deals:Big Fig: 25% off with code FIREWORKS. CNET considers these top-rated mattresses designed with bigger bodies in mind a total win if you need extra support.Serta Five Star Mattress Tranquility, Queen: $299 (save $100). This 10-inch medium-firm mattress has a gel foam lumbar support band for zoned comfort that should ease back pain.Best Prime Day outdoor offersUpgrade your backyard or prep for your next summer camping trip with these hot Prime Day deals.
Thermacell E-Series mosquito repeller: $44 This device creates a 20-foot repellent zone that kicks in within 15 minutes. The device has a 9-hour battery and is rechargeable with the provided USB-C cord. The repellent formula is scent-free and doesn’t use DEET. CNET's Taylor Leamey raved about her own experience with this excellent mosquito repeller and now it's marked down just in time for summer.
Details
Save $6
$44 at Amazon
Close
Beatbot AquaSense pool cleaners: From $959 Beatbot is offering up to $930 off its AquaSense and AquaSense 2 range of pool cleaners so you don't have to do the dirty work yourself. This product has been independently, editorially selected by our expert deals team. The company has paid for highlighted placement on this page.
Details
Save up to $930
$959 at Amazon
Close
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group!
Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
Sign Up
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to receive recurring marketing messages at the phone number provided. Consent is not a condition of purchase. Reply STOP to unsubscribe. Msg & data rates may apply. View our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. More of the best Prime Day outdoor deals:CamelBak 50-ounce Hydrobak Light: $48 (save $17). This tiny hydration backpack is perfect for cycling, running, hiking and much more, and has a separate pocket for your keys, wallet and other essentials.When do Prime Day deals end?Many Amazon Prime Day deals have already expired, but there are still lingering discounts to be had. This year, Prime Day ran from July 8 to July 11. Now that the event is over, deals are harder to come by and there's no telling how long the remaining deals will last. Do I have to be an Amazon Prime member to shop Prime Day?To access most Prime Day deals, you'll need to be a Prime member. If you've always wanted the benefits of Prime but haven't made the jump, now's a great time to subscribe. Subscribing now could lead to significant savings since tariffs are expected to raise prices on a lot of goods. A recent CNET survey found that 64% of shoppers have bought or plan to buy tech products soon to avoid price increases or shortages. In fact, 16% of shoppers say they're using Prime Day to start their holiday shopping well ahead of the holiday season, according to a new RetailMeNot survey. (Disclosure: RetailMeNot is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.)Read more: How to Sign Up for a Prime MembershipPrevious Amazon Prime Day datesSince Amazon launched its first Prime Day sale in 2015, the company has scheduled the event for around the same time of year. Outside of a couple of recent years, Amazon has traditionally kicked off its main sale event around the middle two weeks of July and 2025 is no exception. Here are the previous Amazon Prime Day dates:Prime Day 2015: July 15Prime Day 2016: July 12Prime Day 2017: July 11 to 12Prime Day 2018: July 16 to 17Prime Day 2019: July 15 to 16Prime Day 2020: Oct. 13 to 14Prime Day 2021: June 21 to 22Prime Day 2022: July 12 to 13Prime Early Access Sale 2022: Oct. 11 to 12Prime Day 2023: July 11 to 12Prime Big Deal Days 2023: Oct. 10 to 11Prime Day 2024: July 16 to 17Prime Big Deal Days 2024: Oct. 8 to 9Big Spring Sale 2025: March 20 to 25Prime Day 2025: July 8 to 11Will tariffs affect this year's Prime Day deals?Tariffs are top of mind for most Americans and it could affect this year's Prime Day event. Prices on items like electronics could very well increase, with companies like Apple trying to avoid tariffs by moving manufacturing operations elsewhere. The tariffs were paused earlier this month, but only until Wednesday, right after Prime Day began. What is Prime Day?Amazon began the annual Prime Day tradition in 2015. Ever since, bargain hunters have eagerly awaited its return every summer. The Prime Day sale event has historically taken place in July, and this year is no exception. Amazon often has other sales throughout the year, including a second Prime Day-like sale in October and the Big Spring Sale in March.This year's Prime Day is here -- though not for much longer. We've covered all the essentials, including everything from signing up for Amazon Prime and returning Prime Day purchases to getting Prime Day deals free and using extra Prime perks.How we choose dealsCNET has a team of shopping experts and deal hunters who have operated across major sales events for many years, making sure you understand when a deal is worth taking advantage of or when it's worth skipping. Whether it's for Black Friday, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July or Prime Day, we have the expertise to make sure you get the best deal possible. To do this, we look for real discounts, quality reviews and remaining sale time when choosing an offer to show you. Real discounts mean real discounts. We look at the price history for that product to make sure no manufacturers are inflating prices to make the discount seem more substantial than it is.Quality reviews are equally important for any product, but particularly for deeply discounted items. If it breaks the first time you use it, the discount isn't really worthwhile.Remaining sale time is a huge part of our vetting process. If a deal seems like it will only be around for a short while or will only be available for the remaining stock, we'll let you know in advance, so you don't return later only to be disappointed. We are also considering the rising costs associated with tariffs to help you find items worth buying now. Read more: Tariff Tracker: We're Watching Prices for 11 Products You Might Need to Buy How to keep up with the best Prime Day sales
There are a lot of ways to ensure you're getting the latest scoop on Prime Day deals. The CNET Deals team covers all the best price drops, discounts and deals every day from across the web, highlighting the best offers so you can nab a solid deal. We'll be keeping an eye on the latest offers and sharing the promotions you need to hear about, and there are plenty of ways to hear from us.
One option is to bookmark CNET.com/deals to check out our latest coverage. You can also follow @CNETDeals on X to see everything we publish or sign up for our CNET Deals newsletter for a daily digest of deals delivered to your inbox. Another great option is to sign up for CNET Deals text alerts for curated deals during major shopping events. Remember to install our CNET Shopping browser extension to help ensure that purchases you make all year round will be at the lowest price available.
Latest Prime Day Deals
5 new updates
Updated on Jul 11, 2025
TCL 55-inch Class QM7K Series QLED Google TV: $598 This Google TV-powered TV combines QLED and OLED techniques to improve blacklighting precision, so blacks stay deep while colors pop. Support for 240Hz variable refresh rate makes this big screen ideal for fast-paced and competitive games.
Apple AirPods 4: $119 The latest AirPods with active noise cancellation are dust-, sweat- and water-resistant, perfect for all your summer adventures. Even the spatial audio works with compatible content in supported apps. The non-ANC model is also at a discount, for $89.
Dash My Mug ice cream maker: $31 Make your favorite sweet treats on a budget with this single-serving ice cream maker. The My Mug is perfect for small spaces.
DJI Osmo Mobile 7P: $125 DJI is best known for its amazing drones, but the brand also makes useful accessories for photographers and content creators. This versatile Osmo Mobile 7P smartphone gimbal is currently on sale for an all-time low of $125.
Sony ZV-1F vlog camera: $448 If you've been wanting to dip your toe into content creation, the Sony ZV-1F is the perfect camera to help you get started. It's easy to use, has an ultrawide-angle lens and even automatically recognizes faces and eyes, so you'll always be in focus.
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
+17 More
See all photos
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.