Best October Prime Day deals under $100: My favorite early sales | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Best October Prime Day deals under $100: My favorite early sales
Looking to stick to a budget? We found the best early tech deals under $100 ahead of Amazon's October Prime Day.
Written by
Allison Murray, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:28 a.m. PT
Google Nest Thermostat | for $104 (save $26)
Google Nest Thermostat
for $104 (save $26)
View now View at Amazon Beat Studio Buds | for $80 (save $70)
Beat Studio Buds
for $80 (save $70)
View now View at Amazon Logitech Blue Yeti Microphone | for $105 (save $35)
Logitech Blue Yeti Microphone
for $105 (save $35)
View now View at Amazon Anker MagGo Power Bank | for $63 (save $17)
Anker MagGo Power Bank
for $63 (save $17)
View now View at Amazon Arlo Video Doorbell 2K | for $60 (save $70)
Arlo Video Doorbell 2K
for $60 (save $70)
View now View at Amazon
Roku Streambar | for $80 (save $20)
Roku Streambar
for $80 (save $20)
View now View at Amazon
Show more (1 item)
October Prime Day is a great time to save money on expensive tech items like laptops, tablets, TVs, and more before the big holiday shopping push begins. But if you're on a stricter budget this year, we at ZDNET have got you covered.Also: The best early October Prime Day deals live nowYou can find some very useful tech products, devices, and other gadgets for under $100, even before October Prime Day deals officially go live starting Oct. 7. We've rounded up the best deals under $100 that are light on your wallet but super useful in your life.Find Prime Day dealsBest deals under $100 for Prime Day 2025
Google Nest Thermostat for $104 (save $26)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $104Original price: $130The fourth-generation smart thermostat learns behaviors, trends, and patterns and can adjust settings accordingly. The Nest Temperature Sensor can go in a different room in your home to balance your indoor climate.Review: Google Nest Thermostat
Show more
View now at Amazon
Beat Studio Buds for $80 (save $70)
CNET
Current price: $80Original price: $150The Studio Buds are sculpted to fit in the curvatures of your ear, not needing any stems or hooks to keep them snug. In addition, these earbuds operate on taps and holds, requiring less effort to play, pause, skip tracks, and pick up phone calls.Also: The best earbuds you can buy
Show more
View now at Amazon
Logitech Blue Yeti Microphone for $105 (save $35)
Sherin Shibu/ZDNET
Current price: $105Original price: $140The Blue Yeti is one of the most popular microphones for streamers and content creators. It gives you multiple polar patterns, studio quality output, live headphone monitoring, and plug-and-play compatibility with both Windows and macOS computers for a reasonable price.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker MagGo Power Bank for $63 (save $17)
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET
Current price: $63Original price: $80Leveraging Qi2 technology, the MagGo Power Bank securely snaps onto the back of compatible Android and Apple phones and packs a 6.6K mAh battery capacity that can charge most phones up to one time. Review: Anker MagGo Power Bank
Show more
View now at Amazon
Arlo Video Doorbell 2K for $60 (save $70)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $60Original price: $130The quality of this doorbell is surprisingly clear. You can change the resolution between 1944 x 1944, 1536 x 1536, and 1080 x 1080. You can also enable or disable Auto HDR, adjust the brightness, and flicker from the phone app. Anyone who likes to tweak settings will find the Arlo to be very accommodating.Review: Arlo Video Doorbell 2K
Show more
View now at Amazon
Roku Streambar for $80 (save $20)
Artie Beaty/ZDNET
Current price: $80Original price: $100The device performs in line with other mid-range soundbars, but the value of adding Roku 4K streaming gives it an edge. Even with the sleek design, simplicity is the goal with the Roku all-in-one.Review: This Roku soundbar turned my old TV into an immersive 4K theater experience
Show more
View now at Amazon
More October Prime Day deals under $100Soundcore by Anker Q20 Headphones: $45 (save $25): The ANC that accompanies the headphones uses both hardware and software to reduce noise by up to 90%. JBL Go 3 Speaker: $30 (save $10): The design of this Bluetooth speaker is small enough to place in your backpack for traveling, and it's IP67 waterproof and dustproof so you can take it anywhere.Govee LED Light Strip: $50 (save $15 with coupon): Place this smart light strip underneath kitchen cabinets, behind your TV, or anywhere else that could use a little more ambience in your home. Asus 24-inch Monitor: $89 (save $30): The frameless design of this monitor has a 178-degree wide viewing angle and 120Hz refresh rate for easy viewing. Tile Slim: $20 (save $10): This Bluetooth tracker works with both iOS and Android devices and has a 350-foot Bluetooth range with a three-year battery. Levoit Air Purifier: $70 (save $20): Make your home's air cleaner with this air purifier that captures dust, pollen, and other airborne particles while absorbing odors. Renpho Eye Massager: $52 (save $48): This eye massager uses heat and pressure to reduce eye strain and help with headaches. FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? Amazon's October Prime Day event will take place Tuesday, Oct. 7 through Wednesday, Oct. 8. However, you can expect to shop deals for your budget both before and after the event. Are products really cheaper on Prime Day?Prime Day sales prices tend to be some of the lowest of the year, aside from the Black Friday shopping weekend. This is especially true for Amazon devices like Kindles, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Amazon Echo devices, etc. According to one study, the average Amazon Prime Day discount is 18%, which is a fairly good discount for most products. How did we choose these October Prime Day deals? ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops. We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget deals
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
Best early Amazon Prime Day Samsung deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use