Preorder the iPhone 17 at AT&T and get up to $1,100 off now - here's how | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Networking
Mobile Carriers
Preorder the iPhone 17 at AT&T and get up to $1,100 off now - here's how
AT&T has deals on the new iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, iPhone 17 Pro Max, and iPhone Air, open for preorders now. Here are all the details.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 4:00 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETUp to $1,100 off the new iPhone 17 series at AT&T ZD recommends
4/5 Editor's deal rating View at AT&T Last week, Apple unveiled the new iPhone 17, iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max , and if you're interested in upgrading, plenty of mobile carriers like Verizon, T-Mobile, and more have deals for you. And if you're an AT&T user, new and existing customers can get up to $1,100 off any of the latest phones (the equivalent of a free iPhone 17 Pro) with an eligible iPhone trade-in, in any condition.The new iPhones are now available to preorder at most major carriers, and can be purchased in stores starting Sept. 19. AT&T preorders can be made through att.com, the myAT&T app, and AT&T retail stores. AT&T's complete iPhone 17 series offers are outlined on the carrier's site. Also: The best iPhone 17 casesThe iPhone 17 line includes an A19 chip, a 120Hz ProMotion display, and an enhanced front-facing camera for flexible recording. The iPhone Air is Apple's slimmest and lightest iPhone yet, aimed at users who want a lightweight build and a slightly larger screen than the base iPhone 17. The iPhone Air replaces the iPhone Plus model this year.
ZD recommends
Up to $1,100 off the new iPhone 17 series at AT&T
View at AT&T Eligible iPhones accepted for trade-in in any condition include the following: Apple iPhone 13, 13 Pro, 13 Pro Max, 14, 14 Plus, 14 Pro, 14 Pro Max, 15, 15 Plus, 15 Pro, 15 Pro Max, 16, 16 Plus, 16 Pro, 16 Pro Max, and 16e. Other non-iPhone devices from Samsung, OnePlus, or Google may be accepted if they have a trade-in value of $180 or more. Still, you'll want to check out the full offer details on AT&T's website if you're coming from an Android (just click "see offer details" under each phone's listing).
A closer look at the iPhone 17 Pro camera.  Jason Hiner/ZDNETThe offer is clearly not without a few fine print details, as always. You'll pay tax on the full retail price and an activation/upgrade fee of $35 per line, and your credits start within three bills and are applied in equal amounts over the installment term. So, obviously, the phone isn't truly "free," but this offer makes it more obtainable to those wanting to upgrade. The offer is only valid with the trade-in of an iPhone 13 or higher (excl. iPhone 13 mini) in any condition, or an eligible smartphone with a minimum trade-in value of $180 for up to $1,100 off iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max. Each iPhone below the Pro models decreases the money off, so read the complete terms. I prefer going into the store myself, and as an AT&T customer, you may see me there. Also: The best iPhone 17 accessories you should buy if you're planning to upgradeGenerally, here's the tier structure for new and existing customers with an eligible iPhone trade-in, any condition:iPhone 17 Pro on AT&T, up to $1,100 off (full value of the phone) iPhone 17 Pro Max up to $1,100 off iPhone 17 on AT&T, or up to $830 off (full value of the phone) iPhone Air up to $830 offThe offer also requires a postpaid unlimited voice and data plan starting at $76/month before discounts if you're a new, single-line customer. AT&T 55+, Value Plus, Value Plus VL, and Value Plus Unlimited plans are not eligible. See att.com/unlimited for current unlimited plans. If you're an existing customer, you can add to your current wireless plan (if eligible), which may be less. AT&T also has other deals on Apple's new products. You can also grab the latest Apple Watch Series 11 and Apple Watch Ultra 3 -- buy one, get one $300 off on your second watch. If you're looking to snag a new iPhone 17 series, don't miss a chance to preorder with these offers at AT&T. How did I rate this deal?I rated this deal a 4/5 Editor's deal rating. It's a relatively good offer if you have an eligible iPhone to trade in and want to upgrade. Plus, it's open to new and existing AT&T customers. When will this deal expire?AT&T doesn't specify an end date to this deal. We're guessing it will run at least the week of preorders, likely longer, but we'll keep you posted. Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com. How do we rate deals at ZDNET?We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use