How did the oldest star clusters form?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news & views
article
How did the oldest star clusters form?
Download PDF
NEWS AND VIEWS
10 September 2025
How did the oldest star clusters form?
A computational model of the early-to-present-day Universe predicts that some of the first stars formed in structures that challenge conventional classification.
By
Natalia Lahén ORCID: http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2166-19350
Natalia Lahén
Natalia Lahén is at the Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics, Garching bei München 85748, Germany.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
Some of the oldest structures that have been observed in the Universe are collections of stars called globular clusters1. Globular clusters have been found in most galaxies2. They are characterized by their high masses compared with those of other star clusters and their spherical appearance. The age of the stars in globular clusters indicates that they formed when the first galaxies were still assembling, but astronomers don’t know exactly how this occurred. In a paper in Nature, Taylor et al.3 report supercomputer simulations of the formation of globular clusters and galaxies. The researchers identify in their simulations a new class of stellar structures that they call globular-cluster-like dwarfs, which have properties between those of globular clusters and galaxies. They predict that if such objects exist, they could be a site at which to search for the first generations of stars.Read the paper: The emergence of globular clusters and globular-cluster-like dwarfsThere are three leading theories to explain the origin of globular clusters. In the first, globular clusters represent the high-mass tail of the normal distribution for the population of star clusters, which form through the gravitational collapse of clouds of dust and gas. The second proposes that special conditions are required, such as bursts of star formation caused by galaxy mergers. The third theory is that globular clusters form in a similar way to galaxies — inside halos of dark matter. Dark matter, which can be detected only through its gravitational attraction, makes up most of the mass of the Universe. Galaxies form when denser areas of dark matter pull in surrounding gas and dust. It has been proposed that clumps of dark matter in galaxies could lead to the formation of globular clusters.The oldest galaxies in the Universe belong to a class called dwarf galaxies. The total stellar mass of the smallest of these galaxies falls in a similar range to those of globular clusters, but they are much larger and less dense. Taylor et al. explored the assembly of dwarf galaxies and globular clusters using state-of-the-art numerical simulations4, which enabled them to effectively look back in time and understand how these structures formed. Galaxy formation is hierarchical because bigger galaxies are formed bottom-up by accretion and merging of smaller galaxies. The simulations included physical processes occurring on several scales, so that the authors could model the formation of stellar structures such as globular clusters inside the evolving dwarf galaxies.Molecular gas in a low-dust galaxy hints at how stars formed in the early UniverseTaylor et al. identified 15 dwarf galaxies that formed in the simulations. To identify smaller, globular-cluster-like objects, they developed an algorithm that not only selected stars that clumped together in space, but also required that the stars were moving at similar velocities and had similar ages. This enabled the researchers to identify smaller star clusters than was possible with other algorithmic methods. They identified 189 globular clusters, which were located in or around the dwarf galaxies. Of these, only the five most massive clusters survived the entire simulation, which modelled the evolution of the system through time up to the present day. All of the simulated globular clusters formed without a dark-matter halo, either as conventional, high-mass star clusters or triggered by galaxy mergers.The size and brightness, among several other measured properties, of the simulated clusters and dwarf galaxies matched well with observational data from the Local Group, which is the group of galaxies in the Milky Way’s neighbourhood. The results also support previous numerical studies (see refs 5–7), but they provide a more in-depth comparison with the present-day Universe.Early barred galaxy raises questions about cosmic evolutionHowever, the researchers also found six objects that couldn’t be classified easily as dwarf galaxies or globular clusters. They call these objects globular-cluster-like dwarfs (GCDs). Similarly to globular clusters, the GCDs formed in the vicinity of dwarf galaxies, but they did so inside their own dark-matter halos. The GCDs were as bright as globular clusters, and their radii fell between those of dwarf galaxies and globular clusters.As well as their size, GCDs are set apart from globular clusters and dwarf galaxies by the chemical compositions of their stars. Stars produce ‘metals’ (a term used in astronomy for elements that are heavier than hydrogen and helium) through nuclear fusion. The metals are ejected into the surroundings through stellar winds (outflows of gas from the star) and supernova explosions, which can occur at the end of a star’s life. The next generation of stars forms from interstellar material that is mixed with this ejected matter. The metal content of stars can therefore tell us indirectly about their stellar predecessors8.The gravitational pull of the GCDs’ dark-matter halos caused gas to collapse into stars earlier than in globular clusters, but the objects were not massive enough to initiate further inflows of gas. This meant that after the first burst of star formation, there was not enough fuel for a subsequent generation of stars in the GCDs (Fig. 1) — unlike in regular dwarf galaxies that, in some cases, host continuous star formation up to the present day.Figure 1| Formation of a globular-cluster-like dwarf in a cosmological simulation. Taylor et al.3 report supercomputer simulations of galaxy formation from the early Universe to the present day. The researchers identify a class of structures that they call globular-cluster-like dwarfs (GCDs), the properties of which fall between those of dwarf galaxies and those of collections of stars called globular clusters. The formation of a GCD in the simulation is shown. The top row of images shows gas density (darker colour indicates higher density) and the bottom row shows dark-matter density (lighter colour indicates higher density). The GCD formed at time Tform from a cloud of gas that collapsed into stars inside a halo of dark matter (left). Some of these stars exploded as supernovae, which expelled gas from the GCD (middle) and prevented further star formation (right). The GCD is indicated by a red circle. Time is expressed in millions of years (Myr). Scale bar, 800 parsecs (pc).The GCDs had lower abundances of metals and formed, on average, earlier than did the globular clusters in the simulation. The authors predict that if GCDs are found, they will also be older than the oldest dwarf galaxies and might contain evidence of the earliest population of stars, which would be composed almost entirely of hydrogen and helium9. The existence of such ‘metal-free’ stars in the early Universe is widely accepted, but they have never been observed.Although this study uses world-class computational models, the results still leave open questions. Current cosmological models cannot reproduce some observed properties of globular clusters, such as the stellar abundances of light chemical elements, including sodium and aluminium10. Furthermore, the simulations did not include globular clusters that form in galaxies of higher mass than dwarf galaxies11, which would be computationally expensive to include in the model. Approaches such as graphic- processing-unit acceleration or machine-learning techniques could be explored to speed up the calculations.However, the authors suggest that it might be possible to put their results to the test by looking in our own ‘cosmic backyard’. They point out that some of the Local Group dwarf galaxies, as well as the Milky Way’s C-19 — a very metal-deficient chain or ‘stream’ of stars — might be GCDs. If this is the case, these objects present an avenue for astronomers to constrain the properties of dark matter and study the nature of the first stars, giving scientists a better understanding of the fundamental processes that have shaped our Universe.
Nature 645, 322-323 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02598-4
ReferencesVandenBerg, D. A. et al. Astrophys. J. 775, 134 (2013).Article
Google Scholar
Forbes, D. A., Read, J. I., Gieles, M. & Collins, M. L. M. Mon. Not. R. Astron. Soc. 481, 5592–5605 (2018).Article
Google Scholar
Taylor, E. D. et al. Nature 645, 327–331 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Agertz, O. et al. Mon. Not. R. Astron. Soc. 491, 1656–1672 (2020).Article
Google Scholar
Sameie, O. et al. Mon. Not. R. Astron. Soc. 522, 1800–1813 (2023).Article
Google Scholar
Gutcke, T. A. Astrophys. J. 971, 103 (2024).Article
Google Scholar
Calura, F. et al. Astron. Astrophys. 698, A207 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Heger, A. & Woosley, S. E. Astrophys. J. 567, 532 (2002).Article
Google Scholar
Frebel, A. & Norris, J. E. Annu. Rev. Astron. Astrophys. 53, 631–688 (2015).Article
Google Scholar
Carretta, E., Bragaglia, A., Gratton, R. & Lucatello, S. Astron. Astrophys. 505, 139–163 (2009).Article
Google Scholar
Zinn, R. Astrophys. J. 293, 424 (1985).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Competing Interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles
Read the paper: The emergence of globular clusters and globular-cluster-like dwarfs
Molecular gas in a low-dust galaxy hints at how stars formed in the early Universe
Early barred galaxy raises questions about cosmic evolution
See all News & Views
Subjects
Cosmology
Astronomy and astrophysics
Latest on:
Cosmology
Astronomy and astrophysics
Clearest gravitational-wave detection yet confirms Hawking’s black-hole theory
News 10 SEP 25
Rainer Weiss obituary: Nobel laureate who pioneered the technique that detected gravitational waves
Obituary 08 SEP 25
Does dark energy spawn from black holes? Could be a bright idea
Research Highlight 22 AUG 25
The Moon is rusting — thanks to ‘wind’ blown all the way from Earth
News 22 SEP 25
How a mentoring connection boosted my ambitions for a science career
Career Column 19 SEP 25
Stratified wind from a super-Eddington X-ray binary is slower than expected
Article 17 SEP 25
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
Related Articles
Read the paper: The emergence of globular clusters and globular-cluster-like dwarfs
Molecular gas in a low-dust galaxy hints at how stars formed in the early Universe
Early barred galaxy raises questions about cosmic evolution
See all News & Views
Subjects
Cosmology
Astronomy and astrophysics
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited