JPMorgan Connects Wealthy Clients With Private Jets, Butlers | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
JPMorgan Is Giving Wealthy Clients Lifestyle Advice, From Finding Private Jets to Restoring Artwork: 'A Growing Trend'
JPMorgan rolled out a new lifestyle service for high-net-worth clients.
By
Sherin Shibu
Edited by
Melissa Malamut
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
JPMorgan Private Bank is launching a new lifestyle service to help curate its wealthy clients' lives.
Clients will have access to exclusive offers, complimentary consultations, and discounts with a network of companies.
They will also have free financial reporting tools.
JPMorgan Chase's wealthiest clients will now receive discounts and referrals on services from luxury travel to art restoration.JPMorgan Private Bank announced on Tuesday that it is offering a new lifestyle program for its wealthy U.S. clients, providing access to services like booking private jets and hiring household staff. Services also include financial reporting programs, bill pay, and bookkeeping.One service, for example, provides clients free access to Valerie Wilson Travel, a company JPMorgan acquired in 2022, for travel planning and advice. (JPMorgan did not name any other travel companies available through the network, but said that there was a wide range of firms offering exclusive services.) Another exclusive service involves maintaining and selling art collections.
Related: JPMorgan's New 'Supertall' Office Offers Perks Like High-End Restaurants and a High-Tech Gym. Here's What Else to Expect.For JPMorgan clients, there is no additional fee to tap into the new services, according to the press release. The new programming is part of a wider industry trend where private banks are expanding beyond traditional investment and financial guidance.
William Sinclair, co-head of J.P. Morgan Private Bank's Global Family Office Practice, told CNBC that wealthy clients are increasingly seeking more than just financial advice from their advisors, including managing artwork collections and payroll management for household employees."There is a growing trend among clients who want our advice outside of traditional wealth management," Sinclair told the outlet.JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon. Photographer: Patrick Bolger/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesSinclair stated that the most requested services have been private jet travel, bill pay, and requests from business owners to help find health insurance plans for employees.
JPMorgan is also planning to add more features to the lifestyle service as it grows, Emily Margolis, head of JPMorgan Private Bank's lifestyle services, told CNBC."We're looking at physical security, insurance, more in-depth HR, areas that we see more requests," Margolis told the outlet.Related: JPMorgan Will Fire Junior Bankers Over a Common Practice That CEO Jamie Dimon Calls 'Unethical'Expanding lifestyle services ties into JPMorgan's overall strategy to grow as a bank. JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon talked about the company's overarching growth plan and commitment to investments at the bank's annual Investor Day in May.
"There's a lot of competition," he stated at the event. "You have to be prepared every day to make the investment you need to do in your people, your systems, your ops, your culture, and stuff like that to actually win."JPMorgan is also the largest U.S. bank with over $4.3 trillion in assets as of March 31. The bank had a market value of over $845 billion at the time of writing.Related: JPMorgan Is Now Valued More Than Its 3 Largest Competitors Combined: 'We're Quite Cautious to Just Declare Victory'
JPMorgan Chase's wealthiest clients will now receive discounts and referrals on services from luxury travel to art restoration.JPMorgan Private Bank announced on Tuesday that it is offering a new lifestyle program for its wealthy U.S. clients, providing access to services like booking private jets and hiring household staff. Services also include financial reporting programs, bill pay, and bookkeeping.One service, for example, provides clients free access to Valerie Wilson Travel, a company JPMorgan acquired in 2022, for travel planning and advice. (JPMorgan did not name any other travel companies available through the network, but said that there was a wide range of firms offering exclusive services.) Another exclusive service involves maintaining and selling art collections.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Sherin Shibu
Entrepreneur Staff
News Reporter
Sherin Shibu is a business news reporter at Entrepreneur.com. She previously worked for PCMag, Business Insider, The Messenger, and ZDNET as a reporter and copyeditor. Her areas of coverage encompass tech, business, strategy, finance, and even space. She is a Columbia University graduate.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Buying / Investing in Business
From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market
Co-ownership is creating big opportunities for entrepreneurs.
By
StackCommerce
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Buying / Investing in Business
Big Investors Are Betting on This 'Unlisted' Stock
You can join them as an early-stage investor as this company disrupts a $1.3T market.
By
StackCommerce
Leadership
'I'm Play-Fighting With My Best Friends': How WWE Superstar Chelsea Green Keeps It Light While Delivering Heavy Blows
Chelsea Green shared her career journey — bruises and all — on the new episode of "How Success Happens."
By
Dan Bova
Side Hustle
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
Seth Goldstein, 29, and his friend Steven Rofrano got their business idea after a snack break in Miami.
By
Amanda Breen
Growing a Business
Your Loyalty Program Shouldn't Just Retain Customers — It Should Grow Their Business and Yours
The future of loyalty is a frictionless flywheel that gains momentum with every joint success. Stop incentivizing purchases and start enabling program members' success.
By
Fallon Anawalt
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC