These are the top free Windows tools that I use on a daily basis to boost my productivity | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingBorderlands 4 woesAn Intel comeback?Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Windows
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Linux
Before Windows 10 goes EOL, I'm testing three alternative Linux distros to save my 6-year-old laptop from the landfill
PC Building
These are the tools we use to build and maintain our tech, and they're on sale for Amazon Prime Day
Peripherals
These 15 gadgets under $50 have upgraded my tech life, and you can still get them on sale for the finale of Prime Day
Linux
I took a look at AnduinOS, a Linux distro that feels like home for Windows users
Linux
I use one simple tool to update my Linux OS and all of its software in minutes — Topgrade auto-detects and updates all of my system via one command
Linux
I've tried many Linux distros designed to look and feel like Windows, and this is the best one yet
Peripherals
11 gadgets and gifts for college — our favorite chargers, batteries, webcams, and more for $55 or less
Peripherals
Gaming Peripheral Apps, Ranked From Worst to Worst
3D Printing
Grab vital 3D printer maintenance tools for less this Amazon Prime Day — up to 37% off HOTO, Creality, Wera
Peripherals
The best cheap tech you can still grab before Prime Day ends — 13 bargains under $13 to improve your tech life
Peripherals
Be an IT superhero and grab this discounted 64-piece electronics toolkit from Amazon before it's too late
PC Components
Best Back To School Tech Deals 2025: Best essential tech bargains for the new school year
Operating Systems
Custom Windows 11 builder axes Microsoft's AI features, whack-a-moling Copilot, Outlook, and Teams
Software
7-Zip for Windows goes massively parallel with first ‘Threadripper Edition’ — five years after Threadripper debut, Version 25.00 the first to support more than 64 threads
Software
Operating Systems
Windows
These are the top free Windows tools that I use on a daily basis to boost my productivity
Features
By
Les Pounder
published
17 September 2025
Load up on free tools
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Pexels OpenClipArt)
Jump to:
Creative Tools
Useful Tools
Entertainment and Media
You don’t need to spend big money for the best applications, and here is proof! I’ve collated a list of the best free applications for creating content, writing code, making bootable USB drives, and, most essential of all, entertainment.These are all of the apps that I commonly use when making content on Tom’s Hardware, and sometimes my overly neglected blog. All of these applications are for Windows-based machines, but many are also available for Linux and macOS devices.So let's dive in and learn a little more about the apps that I use.
You may like
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Before Windows 10 goes EOL, I'm testing three alternative Linux distros to save my 6-year-old laptop from the landfill
These are the tools we use to build and maintain our tech, and they're on sale for Amazon Prime Day
Creative ToolsScreenToGIF
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)If you’ve seen a GIF in any of my content, ScreenToGIF made it. This free tool can capture entire screens or portions of them and render them as an animated GIF or a video file. Not only does ScreenToGIF capture media for my GIFs, but I can also edit them from the expansive menu. Scaling, trimming, optimizing, and features such as watermarks, text, and special effects are just a click away.I use ScreenToGIF a lot! Mainly for GIFs, but it works extremely well as a quick way to capture videos for IT support tickets when I need to prove that I found an issue.ScreenToGIF can also be used to convert a video to GIF. Just make sure that it isn’t an MOV file; for that, you will need to convert the file using Handbrake, which is also on this list! In ScreenToGIF, I can remove frames, set the FPS, add effects, scan for duplicates, resize the images, and more.Output options are as a video file and, of course, GIF. With GIF, there are multiple encoding options and encoders to get the best desired output for your creations.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.ScreenToGIF is awesome and I’ve been using it for over four years now and it has proven to be a solid performer for my workflow.GIMP
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)I’ve used many different bitmap image editors; heck, I trained on Adobe Photoshop back in the 1990s, but something always brings me back to GIMP. It's not the name, clearly. But the GNU Image Manipulation Programme has plenty of features for this writer.First of all, this isn’t Photoshop. You can make it appear to work like Photoshop, but I’d recommend learning to use the default interface, unless you are transitioning from Photoshop. GIMP can do it all — you just have to learn how it works, but it doesn’t take too long. GIMP feels a little slower than Photoshop; that could be a mix of performance and user expectation.
You may like
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Before Windows 10 goes EOL, I'm testing three alternative Linux distros to save my 6-year-old laptop from the landfill
These are the tools we use to build and maintain our tech, and they're on sale for Amazon Prime Day
GIMP supports Photoshop file formats, along with all the usual suspects, including RAW images. We can work with multiple layers, effects, and filters to tweak our compositions. You can write your own plugins using Python or C/C++ and call GIMP from the command line/terminal to batch edit images without the GUI.GIMP is free and well worth investing your time and effort into. If not, there are plenty of other image editors that you can try out.Inkscape
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Adobe Illustrator is where I learned my craft back in the 1990s. Along with Adobe Photoshop and Aldus Pagemaker, it's no wonder that I seemed on track for a career in journalism. But the problem with Adobe software is the cost. If you are a professional, then the cost is a business expense, but if you are only an occasional user, then that cost is hard to swallow.Inkscape is a viable and, dare I say, excellent alternative to Illustrator. It works with Illustrator files and SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) files that are commonly used on the web. Inkscape is a joy to use, and I can annotate images, create diagrams ,and even prepare SVG files that I ultimately use to make 3D printable objects.Inkscape is a wonderful tool, and you should add it to your setup right away.Useful ToolsNotepad++
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)For this entry, I have Avram Piltch to thank. Notepad++ was something that I was aware of, but never really used. You see, I used to swear by Microsoft’s Visual Studio Code for all of my coding projects, but it is a little overkill for some.Notepad++, as its name suggests, is as light as the built-in Notepad, but it has an excellent awareness of different programming languages, and it makes short work of opening the majority of text files, including my personal favorite, Markdown.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Using a plugin for Markdown, I can preview what I am writing, before it gets published to my blog. When coding in other languages, Notepad++ provides syntax highlighting, a handy feature for most coders.Notepad++ is more than a note taking tool, it is a development tool that no coder should do without.Rufus
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Over the years, I have made a lot of bootable USB sticks for single-board computers such as the Raspberry Pi, LattePanda, and, of course, my elderly Lenovo X220. To make these bootable sticks, I’ve used Raspberry Pi Imager, Etcher, and even the dd Linux command. But Rufus is the one app that I keep coming back to.Rufus is a free download, and it can write an ISO / IMG file to a USB stick for later use on a machine. It can also be used to customize a Windows 11 install disk to bypass TPM requirements.Simple to use, Rufus hides a lot of features in plain sight, activating specific features according to your needs. Take, for example, the extended Windows 11 tweaks for TPM, RAM requirements, and so on.Download Rufus and throw it on a spare USB flash drive, for those times when you really need to make a bootable USB disk, without the hassle of dd. Alternatively, take a look at Ventoy, which can store multiple bootable operating systems on a single USB drive.Entertainment and MediaVLC
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)VLC is the backbone of my productivity. After ripping my CDs to FLAC, I throw them onto my NAS, and from there, my Windows desktop, Linux laptop, and Android smartphone can access the files via VLC.Video playback via VLC is always a joy, and the interface is simple, but to the point where I can use it in my sleep. I even use VLC's screengrab tool to screenshot images from a video capture card that I use to record installing different operating systems on single-board computers.Got a malformed media file? VLC doesn’t care; it will play it. YouTube link or BBC iPlayer stream? VLC will play it. An obscure web format from 20 years ago? Sure. VLC just gets on with it. Still got your physical media? VLC will play your CDs and DVDsWithout VLC, I’d probably get less work done; without my music, there is no work! So download it for yourself right now.Handbrake
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Handbrake has saved my bacon on more than a few occasions. This is the tool that you need to transcode audio/video media when you want it to play on an older device, a device that has a specialized hardware decoder, or you want to publish to YouTube.Handbrake has a frightening amount of options, but stick with the presets and you’ll be good.Handbrake can be used on single files, or multiple files can be added to a queue, each with its own specific configuration. Then we just run Handbrake over the queued files and let it do its thing.Advanced users can integrate Handbrake’s CLI interface to automate batch processes, handy for when we are backing up our DVD collection to a NAS. Users have created their own batch scripts to run Handbrake and download cover art and subtitles for their content, automating the process of archiving their physical media to a NAS.Handbrake is one of those apps that we don’t always need, but when we need to convert video files, everybody uses Handbrake, so grab a free copy now.
See all comments (1)
Les PounderSocial Links NavigationLes Pounder is an associate editor at Tom's Hardware. He is a creative technologist and for seven years has created projects to educate and inspire minds both young and old. He has worked with the Raspberry Pi Foundation to write and deliver their teacher training program "Picademy".
Read more
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Before Windows 10 goes EOL, I'm testing three alternative Linux distros to save my 6-year-old laptop from the landfill
These are the tools we use to build and maintain our tech, and they're on sale for Amazon Prime Day
These 15 gadgets under $50 have upgraded my tech life, and you can still get them on sale for the finale of Prime Day
I took a look at AnduinOS, a Linux distro that feels like home for Windows users
I use one simple tool to update my Linux OS and all of its software in minutes — Topgrade auto-detects and updates all of my system via one command
Latest in Windows
Windows 11 is getting a built-in internet speed test feature that will take you to Bing
Windows 11 25H2 ISOs released after delays
Nano11 compresses Windows 11 install footprint to as little as 2.8GB
Early Windows 11 25H2 benchmarks confirm the update provides no performance improvements over 24H2
Windows 11 August 2025 security update is causing unintended UAC prompts to appear for non-admin users
Microsoft swats down reports of SSD failures in Windows
Latest in Features
These must-have accessories helped me power through my overseas trip to IFA 2025
I got excited for the idea of sub-$1,000 gaming laptops with integrated graphics — but there are more than a few reasons why that's probably not happening
These are the top free Windows tools that I use on a daily basis to boost my productivity
Desktop GPU roadmap: Nvidia Rubin, AMD UDNA & Intel Xe3 Celestial
Ryzen to the top: How AMD innovated in the gaming CPU market
How the AI revolution is triggering a hardware arms race and pushing up prices
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
Alvar "Miles" Udell
While Screen To Gif is a bit more fully featured for gifs, Windows 11s clipping tool can record as MP4 and Gif with a couple of frame rate options, making it great for many people, especially privelage restricted work accounts since it's an included tool.
Also I'd say Vidcoder over Handbrake itself. Yes it's basically a front-end for Handbrake, but it makes things like enquing multiple titles from multiple sources as easy as drag and drop.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.