My in-laws, 95, are leaving us $250K. What's the smart way to invest this money? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
My in-laws, 95, are leaving us $250K. What's the smart way to invest this money?
My in-laws, 95, are leaving us $250K. What's the smart way to invest this money?
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 20, 2025, 8:01:00 PM
By Quentin Fottrell
'They have a low income and do not file taxes'
"They have a low income." (Photo subjects are models.)
Dear Quentin,
My in-laws are 95. They have a low income and do not file taxes, and they plan to die at home. They want to give their son, my husband, $250,000 from the sale of their home. My in-laws are living rent-free in a small family home. My husband and I are 64.
What should we do with all this lovely money?
Daughter-in-Law
Don't miss: Is now a good time to invest in the S&P 500? I'm 66, retired and have $200K to invest.
You can email The Moneyist with any financial and ethical questions at qfottrell@marketwatch.com. The Moneyist regrets he cannot reply to questions individually.
I will give you some "ifs" related to your finances, which will hopefully help others who are in a similar, fortunate situation.
Dear Daughter-in-Law,
I have a few "ifs" and "buts."
At your current age, you could have 30 years of retirement ahead of you. This could be even more likely for your husband, given that his parents are in their 90s. Choices are a luxury but can feel like a burden. I recently told someone to beware of living with too many "ifs," but given the lack of financial details in your story, I will give you some of my own "ifs." These will hopefully help others who are in a similar fortunate situation.
If you have a mortgage rate that's putting pressure on your ability to pay your expenses and/or invest money, pay some or all of it off, especially if you have a high interest rate. "High" is relative. If you're used to hearing about people who snagged a 2.5% or 3% rate during the pandemic, you might be reluctant to pay 5%. But others would see that as a welcome respite from the current 30-year rate, which hovers at 6.7%.
Investing only 50% of your available funds in equities would be considered a relatively conservative strategy at your age.
But investing only 50% of your available funds in equities would be considered a relatively conservative strategy at your age, given how long people are living. You may also wish to use your in-laws' story as a cautionary tale by looking into long-term-care insurance. As I explained to this reader, long-term-care insurance premiums increase significantly based on age and health conditions. And keep two years of expenses as an emergency fund.
If you invested $200,000 of this windfall in the S&P 500 at an average 7% annual return, you'd have roughly $393,430 by the time you're 74 and $773,937 by the time you're 84 (that's obviously without making any monthly withdrawals). If you decided to withdraw a very conservative $600 from your investments in five years, you'd still have $352,025 when you turn 74 and $636,104 when you're 84. It will give you peace of mind in your retirement.
If you have $100,000 in a 401(k) or IRA, invest this money - or at least a part of it. If you have $1 million in a 401(k) or IRA, put it in the market. Your 74-year-old selves will thank you. I assume you're both working towards retirement and plan on drawing Social Security at either 67, your full retirement age (FRA), or at 70, when you get an extra 8% above your FRA benefits. If you can afford to wait, that could mean a few hundred dollars more a month.
A $250,000 warning
And now a warning: Gifting you $250,000 before they pass away should be documented for the Internal Revenue Service but, more importantly, by selling their home your in-laws would be subject to the five-year lookback Medicaid ruling, making them ineligible for Medicaid benefits (I say that because you mention they don't file income taxes, which I assume is because they don't have enough earnings). On that subject, are there property taxes due on their home?
As a needs-based program, to be eligible for Medicaid, a person must have no more than $2,000 in countable assets, which includes bank accounts and investments, and no more than $2,829 a month in income. Those figures can change depending on the state. They will need to be careful to stay under that limit if they wish to qualify. While a person's home is generally not counted toward Medicaid's asset limit, it is not always exempt from Medicaid's Estate Recovery Program.
It's possible for someone to set up an irrevocable trust before the five-year look-back rule to remove assets from their legal ownership.
Some states, including Florida, New York and California, have rules that exempt a primary residence from assets calculated by Medicaid under certain circumstances. In other states, such as Colorado, you need to live in the home or have plans to return to it, if it's unoccupied, if you wish the property to remain exempt. Florida also has enhanced life-estate deeds - or "lady-bird deeds" - which automatically exempt all homes with such a deed from the Medicaid estate.
It's possible for someone to set up an irrevocable trust before the five-year look-back rule to remove assets from their legal ownership. A Medicaid Asset Protection Trust can protect the assets of someone who wishes to apply for Medicaid, as long as this is done before the lookback period. Such a trust can be legally and financially complicated, however, and Medicaid can challenge it.
More context on your in-laws' taxes. Because they were 65 or older at the end of 2024, they would need to earn $32,300 a year or more to file a tax return. Given that it seems the only income they receive is their Social Security benefits, they won't have to file a federal income-tax return. Under President Donald Trump's spending bill, individuals 65 and older may claim an additional standard deduction of $6,000 from 2025 through 2028.
Enjoy planning your life with this inheritance.
Don't miss: 'I have Type 1 diabetes': I'm 64 with a $1.3 million 401(k). Is it too late for long-term-care insurance?
Previous columns by Quentin Fottrell:
'Poof! His money could disappear': My boyfriend is 75. His portfolio is down 4% this year. Do we fire his adviser?
'He cannot match my spending': I'm 65 and have $7 million. My boyfriend is 73. Should he release equity from his home so we can enjoy retirement?
'I have a degree in economics': I'm 70, earn $250K a year and have $3.7 million in investments. Is it time to retire?
Check out the Moneyist private Facebook group, where we look for answers to life's thorniest money issues. Post your questions, tell me what you want to know more about, or weigh in on the latest Moneyist columns.
By emailing your questions to The Moneyist or posting your dilemmas on The Moneyist Facebook group, you agree to have them published anonymously on MarketWatch.
By submitting your story to Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of MarketWatch, you understand and agree that we may use your story, or versions of it, in all media and platforms, including via third parties.
-Quentin Fottrell
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-20-25 1601ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 19, 2025
A 5-Star Stock to Buy With a Near-5% Yield Undervalued by 23%, this cheap dividend stock is a top pick in its sector.
Travis Miller Sep 18, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility