Ukraine Dealing With Russian Troops Crawling or Walking in Gas Pipes - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Military & Defense
Ukrainians are fortifying and flooding underground pipes because Russian troops keep trying to crawl or walk in them
By
Matthew Loh
Ukrainian troops have been defending the Oskil River, near Kupiansk, for months.
Kostiantyn Liberov/Libkos/Getty Images
2025-09-17T08:33:49Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Ukraine is dealing with its third known case of Russians using underground pipes to advance.
A new report said that Russia used a gas pipe in Kupiansk to create supply lines close to the city.
Local Ukrainian forces are trying to counter the tactic by flooding the pipes.
Ukraine's war is starting to go below ground.
Russian troops were recently found attempting to infiltrate battle lines in Kharkiv by crawling through an underground pipe, with Kyiv's forces trying to stop them by flooding or fortifying such ducts.Ukrainian observers publicly identified the pipeline tactic last week in Kupiansk, a city in the Kharkiv region that has seen heavy fighting along the front lines.
It's the third time since the war began that Russian forces have been found crawling or walking in gas or water pipes to avoid detection, and the tactic could present a growing defensive challenge for Ukraine.DeepState, an oft-cited Ukrainian open-source intelligence group, reported on Friday that Russian troops had used a gas pipe near Kupiansk to sneak past the nearby Oskil River and establish supply lines and drone pilot positions closer to the city.The group's analysts published drone footage of a uniformed soldier dragging a package out of a hole in a forested area. The report was echoed on Russian social media channels, accompanied by a widely circulated video of soldiers crawling through a pipe. Business Insider could not independently verify the authenticity of either clip or when they were taken.
The General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces confirmed in a statement on Saturday that Russian troops had used a pipeline to move troops near Kupiansk, though it said that the city is still under Ukrainian control.The pipe's exit was not located in the city itself, the general staff wrote, adding that Ukrainian forces had flooded several such passageways."It should be noted that there are several pipelines in the Kupiansk area," the statement read. "Three of the four lines have already been damaged and flooded, and the exit of the fourth is under the control of the defense forces."
On Monday, Ukrainian media outlet Espreso published a video interview with Yuriy Fedorenko, a popular drone unit commander from the 429th Separate Unmanned Systems Regiment, who said that his teams used engineering ammunition to damage the Kupiansk pipe previously used by Russian troops.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Fedorenko said Ukrainian forces targeted an area of the pipe that met the Oskil River, allowing the duct to flood."This does not mean that over time the enemy will not be able to restore this pipe, but it is being monitored closely," Fedorenko said.
Additionally, Ukrainian military bloggers said on Sunday that Kyiv's forces laid barbed wire inside at least one pipeline, circulating a video that appears to show the pipe's booby-trapped interior. The clip has not been confirmed by authorities.The tactic of using underground pipes mirrors a bold Russian operation in March that saw the Kremlin's special forces walking roughly nine miles through a gas pipe in Sudzha to strike at the Ukrainian rear in Kursk.Ukrainian officials said the pipe was unused and had a diameter of 1.4 meters, or about four and a half feet.
While Russia hailed the attack as a success, Ukraine said it later discovered the saboteur team and killed most of them. Most of Ukraine's forces retreated from Kursk that month.In early 2024, Russian troops were reported by Ukrainian media to have drained a service water pipe in Avdiivka, Donetsk, using it to advance underground and installing exit holes every 300 feet or so.Major gas pipelines are woven throughout Ukraine, which previously served as a key transit country for Russian gas flowing to Europe. Many of these trunklines, which can move a total estimated 140 billion cubic meters of gas per year, are underused or unused as Europe weans itself off of Russian energy.
Recommended video
Ukraine War
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account