‘Chainsaw Man’ creator Tatsuki Fujimoto's early stories are coming to Prime Video as an anime anthology
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Tatsuki Fujimoto's early short stories are coming to streaming
Chainsaw Man creator’s early stories are coming to Prime Video as an anime anthology
By
Isaac Rouse
Published Sep 2, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
One of the most versatile TTRPGs is about to get easier to play
Sep 10, 2025
Alien: Earth's eyeball creature is stealing the show, and I'm not even mad about it
Sep 10, 2025
Hazbin Hotel's season 2 teaser has one moment that really matters
Sep 9, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: ©TATSUKI FUJIMOTO/SHUEISHA・Tatsuki Fujimoto 17-26 Committee
Chainsaw Man creator Tatsuki Fujimoto is getting an anime anthology series of his early work on Amazon Prime. Tatsuki Fujimoto 17-26 adapts 8 short stories from the creator between the ages of 17 and 26. Prime Video names and describes the 8 short stories as such:
A Couple Clucking Chickens Were Still Kickin' in the Schoolyard tells the tale of two survivors' bond in a post-apocalyptic world, while Sasaki Stopped a Bullet explores the intense emotions of adolescence. Love is Blind presents a sci-fi romantic comedy about love on a cosmic scale, and Shikaku follows an unhinged assassin girl's twisted love story. Mermaid Rhapsody weaves a touching romance between a boy and a mermaid centered around an underwater piano, whereas Woke-Up-as-a-Girl Syndrome delves into finding one's true self beyond gender norms. Nayuta of the Prophecy chronicles the journey of siblings bound by a harsh destiny, and Sisters depicts rivalry, conflict, and growth between artistically inclined sisters.
Several acclaimed directors, such as Tetsuaki Watanabe (Blue Lock), Nobuyuki Takeuchi (Fireworks, Should We See It from the Side or the Bottom?), and Kazuaki Terasawa (The Ancient Magus’ Bride season 2), are attached to the anthology, alongside animation studios: ZEXCS, Lapin Track, GRAPH77, 100studio, Studio Kafka, and P.A.WORKS. It also features a stacked voice cast, including Kensho Ono, Kana Hanazawa, Tomokazu Sugita, and Junichi Suwabe.
“Having my works from my student years being adapted into anime made me anxious, wondering if this was really okay, and if these works might have relied too heavily on others' inspiration.” said Fujimoto, creator of the original manga. “However, although I haven't seen them yet, I believe that through the work of talented directors, they have become proper, well-crafted pieces.” Produced by the “Tatsuki Fujimoto 17-26” Production Committee with Flagship Line overseeing production, the series adapts Fujimoto’s short story collections Tatsuki Fujimoto Short Stories 17-21 and 22-26, originally published by Shueisha’s Jump Comics. Tatsuki Fujimoto 17-26 will launch globally on November 7, 2025.
Anime
Entertainment
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 8, 2025
Meet two of Starfinder: Afterlight’s companions in this exclusive reveal
Sep 8, 2025
Lego beams aboard the Enterprise, confirming Star Trek-themed set
Sep 9, 2025
If Frozen was a psychedelic thriller, it’d look like this movie
Sep 8, 2025
Don't love Hollow Knight? Silksong probably won't win you over either
Most Popular
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
PlayStation's next State of Play streams this Wednesday
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
The Mandalorian movie could make up for Star Wars' biggest misfire
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
See More
Trending Now
The 20 best horror movies on Amazon Prime Video
0:19
Fan-casting the best Ganondorf for the live-action Zelda movie
Him star Julia Fox reveals her character's secret backstory
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.