What is Heroku? AI Platform as a Service (AI PaaS)
Search overlay panel for performing site-wide searches
Search For:
Close
Salesforce (Heroku) Recognized as a Leader. Learn More!
Search
Open Search Popup
Account menu
DashboardDatabasesDataclipsElementsDocumentationSupport
Login
Sign Up
Products
Products
Discover Heroku’s AI PaaS (Platform as a Service), designed for effortless app deployment and scaling. Explore our cloud application platform features, reliable managed data services, and a robust ecosystem to power your modern applications.
Heroku PlatformDeploy, manage, and scale apps on Heroku, an AI PaaS based on a managed container system.Heroku AIBuild intelligent applications with managed inference and agents, MCP, and more.Heroku Data ServicesSimplify your data management with Heroku’s fully managed cloud databases and data services.Heroku EnterpriseThe Heroku experience developers love, with the enterprise features large companies need.Heroku SuccessExplore Heroku’s support options from Standard to Signature, with resources for developers and partners.Heroku Elements MarketplaceAccelerate your app development with our ecosystem of add-ons, integrations, and buildpacks.
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Developers
Developers
With Heroku's flexible app platform, you can focus on building apps, not infrastructure. Benefit from a meticulously designed developer experience, a polyglot platform supporting your favorite languages, and innovative AI PaaS features to enhance your development workflow.
Dev CenterDive into our comprehensive documentation and guides. Learn about building, deploying, managing, and scaling your apps.Languages
Python.NETJavaNode.jsGoPHPRubyScalaClojure
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Customers
Customers
Discover how companies in diverse industries like Healthcare, Entertainment, Automotive, Retail, FinTech, and more achieve growth and foster innovation with our powerful cloud application platform. Learn how they leverage Heroku’s AI PaaS for cutting-edge solutions.
Customer StoriesHeroku in action: See how organizations of all sizes and industries are succeeding with Heroku.Community StoriesExplore real-world experiences and perspectives on Heroku from developers and communities online.
Customer Story: Watch Duty
Discover how Watch Duty used Heroku to provide real-time wildfire alerts, achieving 100% uptime and scaling effortlessly during crises.
PricingResources
ResourcesLearn more about Heroku's AI PaaS and stay up to date on all Heroku announcements. Gain insights from our team through insightful content and discover how to leverage our platform effectively.
BlogStay up-to-date on Heroku news, important product releases, and valuable insights from the Heroku team.What is Heroku?Learn how Heroku’s AI PaaS simplifies app development, deployment, and scaling.EventsFind Heroku at an event near you! Explore our calendar of tech conferences and meetups.PartnersFor Consultants, ISVs, and technical solution providers looking to grow their business with pro-code solutions.Compliance CenterHeroku is a platform you can trust. Explore our compliance certifications and security measures.Help CenterFind answers to your questions in the Help Center. Browse FAQs, articles, and get support.
Latest News from the Heroku Blog
Securing Salesforce Integrations with Heroku AppLink
Sept 10 - by David Baliles
Improve your security model with Heroku AppLink, a managed bridge between Salesforce and Heroku that improves risk and governance.
Heroku is an AI Platform as a Service (AI PaaS)Build, deploy, and scale applications in the cloud with ease.Get Started Now
“There’s an app for that”Only a few years ago a catchy marketing campaign introduced the world to a new relationship with the mobile phone. Now, apps have become a way of life for most of us. Whether mobile or web, apps and their underlying APIs are how we manage our lives, make purchases, socialize, stay informed, and interact with customers. Apps are everywhere, and Heroku’s cloud application hosting platform is the easiest way to deliver scalable apps on industry-leading technology with an incredible developer experience
Are you a developer? If so, dive straight into our tutorials or go learn How Heroku Works. If not, please read on!
What is HerokuA focus on appsWhy enabling developers mattersTrusting Heroku with successHeroku and dataAn ecosystem of servicesScale and enterpriseHeroku grows with youHeroku and SalesforceSummaryNext Steps
A focus on appsAn app starts impacting the world when customers start interacting with it. Getting apps out in the wild, out onto the Internet quickly, and iterating, fast, is what can make or break companies.Heroku’s cloud application platform focuses relentlessly on apps and the developer experience around apps. Heroku lets companies of all sizes embrace the value of apps, not the distraction of hardware, nor the distraction of servers – virtual or otherwise.
Heroku is the quickest way for a company to become an apps company. Heroku is an AI platform as a service that enables companies to spend their time developing and deploying apps that immediately start producing value.
Why enabling developers mattersGreat apps come from developers using tools and languages they love. That’s why a great developer experience has always been at the very heart of what we do. We embrace the languages of the modern app economy: Node.js, Ruby, Java, Python, Scala, PHP and more.Heroku’s application platform makes the processes of deploying, configuring, scaling, tuning, and managing apps as simple and straightforward as possible, so that developers can focus on what’s most important: building great apps that delight and engage customers.Deploying and maintaining apps should be frictionless, and these capabilities should be a part of a company’s DNA.Learn more about the Heroku Developer Experience
Heroku is an amazing developer experience. Heroku gets out of the way where it matters, letting devs get on with what they do best – developing apps.
Trusting Heroku with success
65+ Billion Requests per Day
65+ Million Apps Created
200+ Add-on Services
38+ Million Managed Data Stores
Trust and transparency are core principles at Heroku – see our Status Site for example. We provide constant threat monitoring, automatic and seamless operating system vulnerability patching, and around-the-clock ops.
Heroku is a company built on trust and security. Trust is the responsibility of each and every employee, and one we take very seriously.
Heroku and dataData lies at the heart of any significant app — whether it’s customer data or data about the service it provides — an app and its data go hand in hand. Heroku’s rich ecosystem of managed data services includes Heroku Postgres, Heroku Key-Value Store and Apache Kafka on Heroku.Developers shouldn’t need to discover how to optimally provision a database through trial and error – they should have immediate access to a scalable, highly available database with rollback – one that supports their apps and development style.Discover more about Heroku data services
Heroku is a platform for data as well as apps. The Heroku AI PaaS provides a secure, scalable database-as-a-service with tons of developers tools like database followers, forking, dataclips and automated health checks.
An ecosystem of servicesUsing an existing, high-quality service is something that empowers developers – they can build more, faster, by using trusted services that provide the functionality that they require.Heroku Add-ons are fully managed services, integrated for use with Heroku. They can be provisioned and scaled in one command, and let developers extend the capabilities of an application.Over 200 Add-ons are available, providing services ranging from databases to uptime alerts, messaging services or automatic backups to search, metrics or mail delivery.Browse the Heroku Elements Marketplace
Heroku’s cloud application platform is an ecosystem of cloud services, which can be used to instantly extend applications with fully managed services.
Scale and enterpriseWhether a 2-person startup or a 10,000-person enterprise, Heroku makes it easy for apps to scale. Not just in terms of ensuring your apps stay up – but also in terms of how apps are managed.Imagine apps as collaborative – developers working together on the same app – sharing resources – and a company having a shared application portfolio with dedicated teams, add-on sharing, fine-grained access control, support SLAs and Heroku Enterprise Account Teams.Learn about Heroku Enterprise
Heroku’s application platform is a suite of enterprise features that extends the Heroku developer experience through to the enterprise – providing enterprise-level control, support and visibility into suites of applications.
Heroku grows with youHeroku is a proven solution for growing companies, from startups to SMBs to large enterprises. The platform adapts to your requirements at every stage — use only what you need today, and add advanced features when you need more.
Heroku simplifies infrastructure planning, giving you one scalable platform and flexible pricing to support your evolving business.
Heroku offers pricing options for apps and organizations of all sizes. As your app grows, scale up the resources you need and pay only for what you consume.View Heroku pricing
Heroku and SalesforceHeroku is part of the Salesforce Platform, enabling enterprises to store and leverage customer data in Salesforce for full-cycle CRM engagement. Some enterprises go even further – storing and integrating with customer data in Salesforce enables full-cycle CRM engagement. Heroku provides seamless Heroku Postgres and Salesforce Data synchronization enabling organizations to go beyond the usual data architectures and combine the capabilities of the Lightning Platform and Heroku.Imagine building modern applications that selectively sync data to Salesforce, enabling Service Cloud and Sales Cloud workflows.Learn about Heroku and Salesforce
Heroku is tightly integrated with Salesforce – providing seamless Heroku and Salesforce data synchronization, enabling companies to architect innovative apps that span both platforms.
SummaryApps are transformative — apps are how customers now engage with companies.Developers are critical to app success.Security and operations are what Heroku does well — we do this to allow companies to focus on what matters: the app.Data is at the heart of any app — and Heroku provides a secure, scalable database-as-a-service.Ecosystems matter – Heroku provides over 200 Add-ons with which to instantly extend applicationsEnterprise-level controls let companies support and manage portfolios of applications.Heroku grows with the needs of evolving businesses, offering flexible pricing for apps and organizations of all sizes.Seamless Heroku and Salesforce data synchronization makes it easy to build innovative apps that span both platforms.
Heroku is a cloud AI PaaS that lets companies build, deliver, monitor and scale apps — we’re the fastest way to go from idea to URL, bypassing all those infrastructure headaches.
Next stepsFind out how Heroku can help your business deliver apps.Got technical skills and want to give it a go? Sign up and try it for yourself.Want to find out what your development team thinks of Heroku? Send them to the Heroku Dev Center.
Ready to Get Started?Stay focused on building great data-driven applications and let Heroku tackle the rest.Sign Up Now
Products
Heroku Platform
Heroku AI
Heroku Managed Inference and Agents
pgvector for Heroku Postgres
MCP on Heroku
Heroku Data Services
Heroku Postgres
Heroku Key-Value Store
Apache Kafka on Heroku
Heroku Enterprise
Heroku Private Spaces
Heroku Connect
Heroku Shield
Heroku Success
Heroku Teams
Elements Marketplace
Languages
Python
.NET
Java
Node.js
Go
PHP
Ruby
Scala
Clojure
Resources
Dev Center
Training & Education
Get Started
Pricing
Blog
Customers
Partners
Compliance Center
Solutions
Podcasts
About Us
What is Heroku?
Heroku & Salesforce
Careers
Help Center
Status
Contact
Rss
X-twitter-square
Github
Linkedin
日本語
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
© Copyright 2025 Salesforce, Inc. All rights reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners. Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105, United States