26 of the Best TV Shows to Stream on Disney Plus - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
26 of the Best TV Shows to Stream on Disney Plus
The Disney-owned streamer has Marvel, Star Wars and so much more.
Aaron Pruner Writer Aaron covers what's exciting and new in the world of home entertainment and streaming TV. Previously, he wrote about entertainment for places like Rotten Tomatoes, Inverse, TheWrap and The Hollywood Reporter. Aaron is also an actor and stay-at-home dad, which means coffee is his friend.
See full bio
Aaron Pruner
Aug. 31, 2025
3:00 a.m. PT 9 min read
Kathryn Hahn, Joe Locke, Aubrey Plaza, Sasheer Zamata, Ali Ahn and Patti LuPone star in Marvel's Agatha All Along on Disney Plus. Marvel Television
Disney Plus is one of the big dogs in streaming entertainment, and it only took half a decade to get here. The Walt Disney name carries huge value, and when it comes to Mouse House programming, Disney Plus is where it's at. So, it should come as no surprise when I call this one of the best streaming services out there. It may be a bold statement but where else can you find Andor, Bluey and Daredevil hanging out all under one roof? Then there are all the Marvel and Star Wars titles in the streamer's library. All this Disney epicness is just a click away.Disney Plus also has an array of Disney classics and original titles well worth your time. Do you want family-friendly shows, educational docuseries or fun reality programs? They're all here. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.Read more: Disney Plus Review: More Than Just Child's PlaySign up for Disney Plus
See at Disney Plus
Disney/Pixar
Dream Productions
Dream Productions takes place between the events of Inside Out and Inside Out 2 and heads back into the mind of young Riley. Instead of focusing on her emotions, this four-episode mockumentary-style series delves into the production company in charge of her dreams. As Riley grows, her emotions require extra processing, and that's where the folks at Dream Productions come in. Paula Pell and Richard Ayoade star; the voices of Amy Poehler, Maya Rudolph, Tony Hale, Lewis Black and Phyllis Smith are also featured.
Marvel
Ironheart
The newest Marvel series to hit Disney Plus takes place following the events of Black Panther: Wakanda Forever and follows Riri Williams (Dominique Thorne) as she creates her own suit of armor inspired by Tony Stark's. Part coming-of-age story and part journey of self-discovery, the series finds the brilliant young woman grappling the with intersection of magic and technology while striving to find her place in the world.
National Geographic
Underdogs
You may be used to animal series narrated by the likes of, say, Sir. Richard Attenborough or Morgan Freeman, to add gravitas to the informative program. Underdogs takes a different route. Ryan Reynolds takes the voice-over helm on this one to explore Mother Nature's odd creatures. Misfits to some, weirdos to others, the Deadpool star gives these quirky animals their due in this fun series.
Des Willie/Lucasfilm Ltd.
Andor
Simply put, I think Andor is the best Star Wars series Disney Plus has made. The program ditches the flashy, and often clichéd, production values of its predecessors and goes all-in on some intense ground-level storytelling. Expanding the story of the characters featured in the one-off film Rogue One, Andor comes through with the emotional stakes thanks to its smart writing and the excellent performances of its cast. Phenomenal stuff, right here.
Giovanni Rufino/Marvel Television
Daredevil: Born Again
Daredevil: Born Again finds Matt Murdock once again fighting for justice, both in the courtroom and on the streets. The series acts as a reboot of sorts and reunites Charlie Cox with Vincent D'Onofrio's (who reprises his role as Wilson Fisk) to once again battle for the soul of Hell's Kitchen. Check out our bone-crushing review of the series.
Marvel Animation
Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man
A new spin on Spider-Man lore unfolds in the streamer's new animated series, Your Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man. The show, presented in a nostalgic animation style, explores a different timeline in which Peter Parker (Hudson Thames) is mentored by Norman Osborn (Colman Domingo), who you may know better as the villainous Green Goblin. This'll be interesting.
Pixar
Win or Lose
Pixar's first original animated series follows a middle school softball team and their journey to the championship. The eight-episode season takes place over one week and follows different characters as they explore the same events from different perspectives. SNL alums Will Forte and Melissa Villaseñor lend their voices alongside Better Call Saul's Rhea Seehorn, Lil Rey Howery, Rosa Salazar, Flula Borg and Jo Firestone.
Disney/Francisco Roman
Goosebumps
Justin Long led the first installment of Disney Plus' YA series, and David Schwimmer takes up the mantle of creepy adult in the show's second season. The gateway horror series takes inspiration from R.L. Stine's iconic book series. Each season follows a group of teens wrapped up in a supernatural mystery.
Matt Kennedy/Lucafilm Ltd.
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew dials the tone back to the Amblin days of the 1980s. There's no trace of Luke Skywalker in this show. Instead, Skeleton Crew takes place in a reality where stories of the Jedi are viewed as fairy tales. That is, until a ragtag group of kids stumble upon an abandoned starship and accidentally shoot themselves into space. The result: a (literally) out-of-this-world adventure.
Chuck Zlotnick/Marvel
Agatha All Along
Agatha All Along isn't a direct sequel to WandaVision, but the stories are definitely related. Kathryn Hahn reprises her deliciously devilish role in the spooky new series, which follows Agatha and a group of ragtag witches on a journey down the Witches Road to help Ms. Harkness get her powers back. Spoiler: It ain't gonna be easy.
Lucasfilm Ltd.
Star Wars: Visions
Star Wars: Visions is a fun and edgy animated anthology series that adds an exciting new element to Lucasfilm's long-established franchise. Seven Japanese animation studios were tapped to create nine unique noncanonical episodes for the program. Additional episodes from Spain, Ireland, Chile, the United Kingdom, South Korea, France, India, Japan and South Africa were released in the show's second installment.
Disney Plus
Doctor Who
Doctor Who kicked off 60 years ago, and since then, the sci-fi series has been revamped multiple times. Actors like David Tennant and Matt Smith helped bring the iconic Time Lord into the present day with the program's run of modern era seasons. Ncuti Gatwa is the latest actor to take the reins as the Doctor, marking the first time in the program's history that a Black actor has stepped into the role. Doctor Who made the move to Disney Plus in 2023. New episodes (starting with season 14) will exclusively air on the streamer.
Ludo Studio
Bluey
Bluey is a phenomenon, plain and simple. The kids' show, which follows a family of anthropomorphic dogs -- Bluey, her sister Bingo, dad Bandit and mom Chilli -- was the most streamed series in 2023, and for good reason. Nearly all the episodes run at around 8 minutes in length, making it an easy binge. And while the tone remains light and playful, the series digs into relevant and poignant topics in a way that never talks down to its audience. Who knew a show about an Australian dog family would be so addictive? Disney Plus knew.
Disney Plus
Percy Jackson and the Olympians
This fresh take on Rick Riordan's cherished books aims to erase the live-action movies from our collective memories. And for the most part, it accomplishes its task. The eight-episode first season follows the events of Lightning Thief, the first book in the series. Thanks to a younger cast and lighter stakes, this Percy Jackson series is positioned to be a YA hit for Disney Plus.
Lucasfilm Ltd.
The Mandalorian
Dave Filoni and Jon Favreau took their love of Star Wars to new heights with The Mandalorian. It's the first live-action Star Wars series to hit Disney Plus and it set the standard for everything that came after. Stylistically inspired by things like the Lone Wolf and Cub manga, Akira Kurosawa's Yojimbo and Sergio Leone's iconic Dollars trilogy (which starred Clint Eastwood as the Man With No Name), the series follows a lone bounty hunter who gets a second chance at life when he's hired to protect a little green alien you may know simply as Baby Yoda.
Apple Corps Ltd
The Beatles: Get Back
This three-part documentary series puts us smack-dab in the creative maelstrom of one of the world's biggest musical groups. Directed by Oscar-winner Peter Jackson, The Beatles: Get Back gives a cinéma vérité-style look at a band at the top of their game and on the precipice of collapse. This previously unseen footage shows John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr in rehearsal for their infamous rooftop concert at their Apple Corps headquarters on London's Savile Row. It was their last live performance. It's breathtaking, inspiring and heartbreaking. And definitely worth a watch.
Marvel Studios
What If...?
If you've ever wondered what may have happened if things turned out differently for your favorite Marvel heroes and villains, Marvel's What If...? is the show for you. The animated anthology series is based on the comic book of the same name and asks, "What if key events in the MCU never happened?" Peggy Carter can totally become Captain America and the Avengers may turn into brain-hungry zombies. And that's just the tip of the iceberg of what Marvel's What If...? is bringing to the table. Read our full What If... ? review here.
Marvel Animation
X-Men '97
X-Men: The Animated Series ended its five-season run in 1997. Almost three decades later, X-Men '97 continues the story of everyone's favorite mutant superhero crew. The pacing is quick, the writing is tight, and the 2D animation style acts as a nice bow tying together this lovely nostalgic gift for '90s kids everywhere.
Chuck Zlotnick/Marvel Studios
Echo
Echo (Alaqua Cox) was first introduced in a three-episode arc in Hawkeye. Marvel's Echo is centered on the hearing-impaired antihero. She's also a member of the Choctaw Nation, which leads the series to wonderfully explore these aspects of her identity. Her association with Wilson Fisk (Vincent D'Onofrio) further connects the MCU shows on Disney Plus with those previously on Netflix -- and sets up the arrival of Matt Murdock (Charlie Cox) and crew quite nicely.
Lucasfilm Ltd.
Star Wars: The Bad Batch
The Bad Batch is an intense, action-packed spin-off of the celebrated Star Wars animated series The Clone Wars. Audiences have seen the fallout of Order 66 take shape in various forms throughout the Star Wars franchise, but never like this. The Bad Batch follows a squad of elite clone troopers with genetic defects. They may have special abilities, but that doesn't make them invisible to the top-secret execution order. In turn, the animated series fills in some blanks in Star Wars lore. It does so in an incredibly entertaining way.
Disney Plus
Ms. Marvel
Ms. Marvel is a breath of fresh air for the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The Disney Plus series flips the script on what we have grown to expect from Marvel shows on the streamer. Iman Vellani is a revelation as the titular hero. It's a challenge for a show to balance the heavy responsibilities of being a superhero with the trials and tribulations of high school. The story pulls it off, and does so with a welcome helping of Muslim representation.
Disney Plus
WandaVision
WandaVision started it all on Disney Plus. It's the first original series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to hit the streamer. It's a genre-bending adventure that finds Wanda and Vision living out different realities inspired by TV sitcoms, from I Love Lucy and The Dick Van Dyke Show to The Brady Bunch and Family Ties. How does the emotional fallout of Avengers: Endgame (and Vision's death, specifically) affect Wanda? Well, let's just say her grief takes her down one heck of a weird rabbit hole.Read our full WandaVision review.
Gareth Gatrell/Marvel/Disney Plus
Loki
Tom Hiddleston has appeared as Loki, the God of Mischief, throughout the Marvel Cinematic Universe for the past decade. Thanks to Disney Plus, he finally leads his own odd adventure. The quirky sci-fi series puts Loki in the unlikely position of hero. Here, he works with a barrage of interesting characters, including Owen Wilson's Mobius M. Mobius, to correct the timeline. It's an offbeat, fun and thoroughly weird series that appeals to die-hard fans and newbs alike.
Chuck Zlotnick/Marvel Studios
The Falcon and the Winter Soldier
What happens when Captain America hangs up his shield? That's the question going into Marvel's The Falcon and the Winter Soldier. Here, Sam Wilson (better known as Falcon) and Bucky Barnes (aka the Winter Soldier) buddy up in a surprisingly funny and heartfelt series that deals with trauma, grief and classism as the world picks up the pieces from the earth-shattering events of Avengers: Endgame.
Disney
Moon Knight
Moon Knight stars Oscar Isaac as Steven Grant, a troubled man with dissociative identity disorder. These aren't simple anxiety issues -- no, Grant actually shares his body with a mercenary named Marc Spector. The discovery of this alter-ego leads Grant on an adventure that pits him against a sinister cult leader named Arthur Harrow (Ethan Hawke) and a gang of formidable Egyptian gods. It's a trippy ride that may even scratch that Indiana Jones itch.Read our full Moon Knight review.
Disney Plus
Muppets Mayhem
Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem Band get top billing in Muppets Mayhem, Disney Plus's latest series inspired by Jim Henson's Muppets. Here, the Electric Mayhem Band struggles to record one more album. But record company politics and other past mistakes make things complicated for the crew -- and boy do those complications lead to some hilarious on-screen antics! Of all the Muppets programs to hit TV in recent years, Muppets Mayhem comes closest to the wacky, fun vibe of the original.
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.