Best Camera Phone of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
We Tested Dozens of Phones and These Have the Best Cameras
We tested top camera phones from Apple, Google and Samsung. These are the ones that consistently deliver great photos and videos.
Our Experts
Written by
Andrew Lanxon
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Written by
Patrick Holland
Article updated on August 3, 2025 at 3:30 AM PDT
Andrew Lanxon Editor at Large; Lead Photographer, Europe When he's not testing the latest phones or phone cameras, Andrew can normally be found with his own camera in hand or behind his drums or eating his stash of home-cooked food -- sometimes all at once. Expertise Smartphones, photography, iOS, Android, gaming, outdoor pursuits. Credentials Shortlisted for British Photography Awards 2022, Commended in Landscape Photographer of the Year 2022
See full bio
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr. Expertise Apple | iPhone | iOS | Android | Samsung | Sony | Google | Motorola | Interviews | Coffee equipment | Cats Credentials Patrick's play The Cowboy is included in the Best American Short Plays 2011-12 anthology. He co-wrote and starred in the short film Baden Krunk that won the Best Wisconsin Short Film award at the Milwaukee Short Film Festival.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
iOS or Android
If your family and friends are on Apple services like iMessage and FaceTime, stick with an iPhone. If you’ve been deep on Samsung, stay on Android. But know that switching between the two has never been easier.
Size
Phones are large in general with the smallest ones having a 6.1-inch screen and large models topping out at 6.8 inches. That makes visiting a store and trying a phone out before you buy it quite important so that you can see what size phone works best for you.
Cameras
Phone cameras have gotten better over the past five years. Don’t be fooled by how many cameras a phone has ot the number of megapixels; more is not necessarily better.
Software support
Phone makers promise varying lengths of long-term software and security support ranging from just one year to as many as seven. These updates not only ensure you get many of the latest features but also keep your phone secure.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
We tested dozens and dozens of smartphones over the past year and this list has the best camera phones that you can buy in 2025. Nearly all phones can take a decent photo. But for consistently great images, even in low-light settings, you need a phone with a top camera setup. For example, the Galaxy S25 Ultra, the Pixel 9 Pro and the iPhone 16 Pro all have amazing cameras with features that even professional photographers can appreciate. Even the new Galaxy Z Fold 7 made the list thanks to its S25 Ultra-like camera. Every phone on this list includes pro-level tools for shooting RAW images, recording log video and manually controlling camera settings. Our Picks
Best premium iPhone Apple iPhone 16 Pro
Jump to details
$1,000 at T-Mobile USA
Jump to details
Featured Deal What is this?
Get a free iPhone 16 when you switch to T-Mobile Apple iPhone 16
Jump to details
See at T-Mobile
Jump to details
Best Google has to offer Google Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL
Jump to details
$800 at T-Mobile
Jump to details
Best phone camera for zoom Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
Jump to details
$1,300 at Samsung
Jump to details
Best foldable camera phone Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7
Jump to details
$1,950 at Samsung
Jump to details
Best phone for Android purists Google Pixel 9
Jump to details
Buy a Google Pixel 9, get $100 store credit
$699 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Show 1 more
MOBILE DEALS OF THE WEEK
iPhone 17 Pro Max (With Eligible Trade-In, Unlimited Plan):  $100 (save $1,100)
Samsung Galaxy S25 128GB With Unlimited Plan for $30 Per Month ($720 Upfront):  $360 (save $440)
Google Pixel 9a 128GB Unlocked Phone With Gemini (Obsidian):  $449 (save $50)
OnePlus 13R 256GB Unlocked Phone (Nebula Noir):  $550 (save $50)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
We Tested Dozens of Phones and These Have the Best Cameras
What is the best camera phone?
Best camera phones of 2025
Best premium iPhone
Get a free iPhone 16 when you switch to T-Mobile
Best Google has to offer
Best phone camera for zoom
Best foldable camera phone
Best phone for Android purists
Best phone cameras compared
Recent updates
Factors to consider when looking at a phone's cameras
How we test phones
Other phones we tested
Phone camera FAQs
What to look forward to in 2025
What is the best camera phone?It's important to keep in mind that there isn't a best camera phone for everyone. Even among CNET's phone reviewers, there isn't a "perfect" phone that suits all our needs. We look at how these cameras perform in real-life situations: How they balance exposures, how they handle colors and how easy they are to use. Read our guide to help find the best phone camera for your needs.We thoroughly tested and compared dozens of phones and found that one with more lenses or megapixels isn't necessarily any better at taking great shots. Top phones, like the iPhone 16 Pro and Pixel 9 Pro, tend to have a variety of lenses, including an ultrawide and a telephoto with 5x optical zoom, and use larger image sensors and camera features for AI-powered computational photography. Then there's the Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra's camera, which has 3x and 5x optical zoom lenses and can take some of the best zoom photos that you can possibly get from a phone.
This was taken with the iPhone 16 Pro's 5x telephoto camera. Patrick Holland/CNETThe $999 iPhone 16 Pro and $1,199 iPhone 16 Pro Max have the same trio of lenses: wide, ultrawide and 5x telephoto. The new 48-megapixel ultrawide camera is a big step up from previous iPhone models. It not only takes outstanding photos but doubles as a high-res macro lens to get the perfect focus on your food snaps. Both phones also support 4K 120fps slow-motion video that looks outstanding. A new Camera Control button doubles as a shortcut key to open the camera but also as a shutter button. It can also be used as a zoom rocker or to swipe through Apple's revamped Photographic Styles -- letting you preview each one in the viewfinder before you take a single pic. Both phones pack advanced features such as ProRaw images, ProRes video capture and recording in Log color space, which makes them powerful tools for professional filmmakers.Is the iPhone 16 Pro leaps and bounds ahead of what Google and Samsung are doing? No. In terms of consistency, reliability and approachability, the iPhone 16 Pro is our pick for people who want a top-notch camera system that's easy to use. For the latest news about the iPhone, check out everything Apple announced at WWDC 2025.Best camera phones of 2025
The iPhone 16 Pro's ultrawide lens got an upgrade and here's one of our favorite photos that we took with it. Andrew Lanxon/CNET
This iPhone 16 photo, taken with the main camera, looks true to life. Lisa Eadicicco/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Get a free iPhone 16 when you switch to T-Mobile
Apple iPhone 16
Pros
Camera Control is useful for switching camera settings
Photographic Styles makes photos pop
Ultrawide camera is better in low light
Cons
Apple Intelligence isn’t out yet
No always on display
No changes to wired charging speeds
No upgrades to the Action button
When I tested the iPhone 16 and 16 Plus I was definitely impressed by the new photography features, the convenient Action button and the elegant build. I consider these phones to be top-notch choices for Apple fans. Parts of the iPhone 16’s key feature, Apple Intelligence, are now out, and the fact that these phones will support it means they’ll likely feel future-proofed for years to come. Aside from screen size (6.1 inches on the regular, 6.7 inches on the Plus), battery size and price, the iPhone 16 and 16 Plus are identical in every way.The iPhone 16 isn’t perfect -- it’s missing an always-on display, and it feels like it’s been ages since Apple improved its wired charging speeds. But it checks all the important boxes and then some.Why we like itThe iPhone 16 and 16 Plus rank so high in our testing because the phones appeal to both novice users and power players a like. They offer about 90% of the experience of Apple's Pro models but cost hundreds of dollars less. Not only is the iPhone 16 a wonderful phone out of the box, Apple has a long track record of updating its software and security patches for years.Who it's best forWhen you think about how the Camera Control key, the Action button and the Dynamic Island come together, along with the camera and battery improvements Apple has made over the last several years, the iPhone 16 is a compelling upgrade for someone coming from an older iPhone, especially if that person is on an iPhone 13 or older. For those who don’t need the Pro’s extra photography prowess and battery life, the iPhone 16 won’t disappoint. Who shouldn’t get itI wouldn't recommend buying the iPhone 16 just for the Camera Control button or the better ultrawide camera.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at T-Mobile
Here's a photo of Dean's path in Edinburgh taken with the Pixel 9 Pro's main camera. Andrew Lanxon/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Best Google has to offer
Google Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL
Pros
Genuinely fun new AI skills
Sleek new design
Seven years of software updates
Cameras can take great daytime shots
Cons
Camera hardware hasn't improved much over Pixel 8 Pro
Gemini AI will eventually require a paid subscription
The Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL have a lot going for them, from their shiny new designs and long software support period. But it's the AI skills that really stand out, from the deep integration of the conversational Gemini Live, to the new Pixel Studio that creates weird and wonderful images from your text prompts.The phones aren't perfect. While the cameras are good and can take excellent photos in bright light, they're just okay in low-light and in night mode. The best AI features will require a monthly subscription (though you get the first year for free) But if you're keen to experiment with AI on your phone then the new Pixel 9 Pro range is a superb way to experience it. Read our Google Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL review.Why we like itGoogle's Pixel line of phones has gone from strength to strength and its latest model is unquestionably the best phone the company has ever made. It's not just the slick-looking design; the Pixel 9 Pro offers a superb camera system, a generous support period and a host of new AI skills making it one of the most accomplished Android phones around. The 9 Pro XL takes that further by accommodating a bright and vibrant 6.8-inch display.Who it's best forIt's a great phone for those of you looking for an elegant everyday Android phone. The interface is easy to navigate and the camera takes great photos with almost no effort on your part. If you feel overwhelmed by the plethora of settings and menus on other Android flagships, Google's Pixel 9 Pro is the way to go. If playing mobile games or watching videos on the go is a priority, opt for the larger Pixel 9 Pro XL.Who shouldn't get itIf you don't need the best cameras Google makes, consider the regular Pixel 9. I do like the fit and finish better on the 9 Pro, but it starts at $999.  ... Show more
Get it now
$800 at T-Mobile
$799 at Google
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.3 inches or 6.8 inchesProcessor
Google Tensor G4Cameras
50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto), 42-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Porcelain, rose quartz, obsidian, hazel
Add to compare
CNET's Patrick Holland snagged this shot with the Galaxy S25 Ultra's new ultrawide camera. Patrick Holland/CNET
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best phone camera for zoom
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
Pros
Best screen on any phone
Versatile cameras
Most powerful phone I've tested
Good battery life
Cons
$1,300 price
Design is almost too minimal
AI features are hit-or-miss
S25/S25 Plus have similar features and cost less
Samsung's Galaxy S25 Ultra which has a lot of AI features, the best of which are interesting and the worst of which unreliable. Luckily, Samsung gets a lot of other things right on the S25 Ultra, which has a new Snapdragon 8 Elite processor, high-resolution ultrawide camera, and some sweet pro video tools that rival the iPhone 16 Pro. Samsung wisely kept all the best parts of last year's Galaxy S24 Ultra (basically the entire phone including that antireflective display) but some of its worst parts, too, like the $1,300 price tag.If you want the best screen you can find on any phone, get the S25 Ultra. If you want the most versatile phone cameras, get the S25 Ultra. If you want a stylus, get the S25 Ultra. But if your needs scale back on any of those fronts, the more affordable S25 options, or even last year's S24 Ultra, may be worth considering. Read our full Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra review.Why we like itThe reason to get the Ultra over its S25 siblings is its screen, which is truly the best I've seen on any phone, and the cameras, which are a step above what the S25 and S25 Plus have. Added video features like ability to record in Log format gets the Ultra as close as it's ever been to the iPhone in terms of professional video capture.Who it's best forIf you have a Galaxy S22 Ultra or older, the S25 Ultra will seem like a significant upgrade. It's harder to make that case for S23 Ultra owners, who, unless their phone's battery is ailing or they can score an incredible discount, should otherwise sit this one out. And for you S24 Ultra owners, you don't need this phone. Save your money and treat yourself to a nice steak dinner and a movie.Who shouldn’t get itThe Galaxy S25 Ultra's appeal is muddied by its $1,300 price. The regular Galaxy S25 has the same functionality, power and longevity, and it costs $500 less. Want a bigger screen? Consider the Galaxy S25 Plus. For the majority of people, the regular Galaxy S25 and S25 Plus will be a better fit.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,300 at Samsung
$1,075 at Walmart
$1,300 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.9 inchesProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 EliteCameras
200-megapixel (wide), 50-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto), 50-megapixel (5x telephoto), 12-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Titanium black, titanium pinkgold, titanium pinkgold, titanium jetblack, titanium gray, titanium silverblue, titanium whitesilver, titanium jadegreen
Add to compare
This shot of CNET's Tara Brown was taken with the Galaxy Z Fold 7.
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
James Martin/CNET
Best foldable camera phone
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7
Pros
Thin 4.2mm design
200-megapixel main camera
Powerful Snapdragon 8 Elite processor
Durable build
Cons
Steep $2,000 price tag
Same 4,400-mAh battery as last year's Fold
25-watt wired charging
With the Galaxy Z Fold 7, Samsung has finally addressed some of the key issues with its previous book-style foldables. The impressively thin build and wider, 6.5-inch cover screen makes this feel like a standard phone when closed, and that wider 8-inch inside display is great for multitasking, with the ability to run up to three apps simultaneously. Perhaps most notably, the camera gets a major upgrade with the addition of a 200-megapixel main camera, which takes shots on par with the top-of-the-line S25 Ultra. Altogether, it’s a great choice if you want a bigger, tablet-like display without the bulk or a compromise on camera quality.Why we like itThe Z Fold 7 does a solid job combining what's great about standard slate phones and what's great about foldables. It feels wonderfully normal to hold when closed, thanks to its sleek design and lightweight build. It also packs great cameras and has an expansive main display that's 11 percent bigger than last year's Z Fold 6. Thankfully, a slimmer build doesn't force the battery to take a hit; the Z Fold 7 maintains that same 4,400-mAh battery as last year's foldable. That pales in comparison to batteries from Chinese competitors, but at least it's not a downgrade. The Z Fold 7 also packs a Snapdragon 8 Elite processor to power the many AI features you'll get onboard, from Galaxy AI photo and audio editing tools to Google's Gemini Live and Circle to Search. The phone also supports seven years of software and security updates. Who it's best forIf you're bored of standard slate phones and want something that feels a little more exciting, the Galaxy Z Fold 7 is a great choice. The slim design and wider cover screen helps it to feel as normal as possible when closed, with the added perk of an expansive main display that's great for multitasking and watching videos. The cameras are also impressive for a foldable that's so thin. Who shouldn't get itThe Z Fold 7's $2,000 price tag is perhaps its biggest caveat. Also, if you don't need a bigger display, it may not be worth the splurge. Ironically, the cover screen is so practical that you’ll rarely need to open the phone -- unless you’re watching movies or multitasking, in which case a phone like the Galaxy S25 Ultra might be a better fit.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,950 at Samsung
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
8 inches and 6.5 inchesProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyCameras
200-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (telephoto), 10-megapixel (inner screen), 10-megapixel (outer screen)Colors
Jetblack, blue shadow, silver shadow, mint
Add to compare
This photo was taken with the Pixel 9's new Add Me feature. Lisa Eadicicco/CNET
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best phone for Android purists
Google Pixel 9
Pros
Beautiful design that feels durable
Fun and somewhat useful AI features
New ultrawide camera takes good photos
7 years of software updates for longevity
Cons
More expensive that previous Pixels and competitors
Doesn't feel that different from Pixel 8
There’s a lot to like about the Pixel 9, from its respectable camera to its classy new design and lengthy 7-year timeline for software updates. But Google’s phones have always shined for their clean, slick software, and that once again applies to the Pixel 9 series. Pixels are also among the first to get new software updates, making them an ideal choice for those who want to get their hands on the latest version of Android first. Aside from Android updates, Google also brings new features to Pixel phones throughout the year through updates it calls Feature Drops.The Pixel 9 comes with a few new AI tricks that you may find useful, like the ability to search for content in screenshots, generate images from scratch in the Pixel Studio app and add new objects in photos. These features aren’t must-haves, and they’re not without flaws. Plus, at a starting price of $799, the Pixel 9 has a higher bar to live up to. But the Pixel 9 feels like it belongs in that class of device. Read our full review for the Google Pixel 9.Why we like itThe Pixel 9 and Google's Gemini assistant still feel like a first step toward what the company is hoping to achieve: Making phone software more intelligent so that we can spend less time swiping, tapping, scrolling and digging. In the meantime, the Pixel 9 shines for its great camera, elegant design and clean software, just like the less AI-centric Pixels of years past.Who's it best forIf you're a Pixel fan upgrading from an older phone, like the Pixel 6 or earlier, you'll find a lot to love about the Pixel 9. But keep in mind that for the same price, Samsung's Galaxy S25 has a brighter screen and a dedicated telephoto lens for taking zoomed photos.Who shouldn't get itIf you want the absolute best cameras that Google makes, including having a dedicated telephoto lens, I'd recommend the Pixel 9 Pro.  ... Show more
Get it now
Buy a Google Pixel 9, get $100 store credit
$699 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.3 inchesProcessor
Google Tensor G4Cameras
50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 10.5 megapixel (selfie)Colors
Peony, wintergreen, porcelain, obsidian
Add to compareBest phone cameras compared
ProductApple iPhone 16 ProGoogle Pixel 9 ProSamsung Galaxy S25 UltraApple iPhone 16Google Pixel 9 Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz adapative refresh rate6.3-inch LTPO OLED; 2,856x1,280 pixels; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.8-inch AMOLED; 3,120x1,440 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.1-inch OLED; 2,556 x 1,179 pixel resolution; 60Hz refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,424x1,080 pixels; 60-120 Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 460 ppi495 ppi501 ppi460 ppi422 ppiDimensions (inches) 5.89 x 2.81 x 0.32 inches6x2.8x0.3 inches6.41 x 3.06 x 0.32 in.5.81 x 2.82 x 0.31 inches6x2.8x0.3 inchesDimensions (millimeters) 149.6 x 71.5 x 8.25mm152.8x72x8.5 mm162.8 x 77.6 x 8.2 mm147.6 x 71.6 x 7.8mm152.8x72x8.5 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 199 g (7.03 oz.)199g (7 oz.)218g (7.69 oz.)170 g (6 oz.)198g (7 oz.)Mobile software iOS 18Android 14Android 15iOS 18Android 14Camera 48-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 5x telephoto50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto)200-megapixel (wide), 50-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto), 50-megapixel (5x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide)Front-facing camera 12-megapixel42-megapixel12-megapixel12-megapixel10.5-megapixelVideo capture 4K4K8K4K4KProcessor Apple A18 ProGoogle Tensor G4Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyApple A18Google Tensor G4RAM + storage RAM N/A + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB16GB + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB12GB RAM + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GBExpandable storage None (Face ID)NoneNoneNone (Face ID)NoneBattery Up to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed). 4,700 mAh5,000 mAhUp to 22 hours video playback; up to 18 hours video playback (streamed). 4,700 mAhFingerprint sensor None (Face ID)Under displayUnder displayNone (Face ID)Under displayConnector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneUS starting price $999 (128GB)$999 (128GB)$1,300 (256GB)$799 (128GB)$799 (128GB)
Recent updates
In July 2025, we added the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 to our list. The Fold 7 replaces last year's Fold 6 and comes with a completely new design that makes it thinner, lighter and feel more like a "regular phone." It has a new main 200-megapixel camera that is similar to the one on the Galaxy S25 Ultra. Factors to consider when looking at a phone's cameras
Consider last year's models: Apple no longer sells the iPhone 15 Pro Max, but you can still find it at third party retailers and often for hundreds less than the iPhone 16 Pro Max.Protect your new phone with a case: Make your phone and its camera's last longer with a case.Don't overlook affordable phones: The $499 Pixel 8A and $599 iPhone 15 can do almost everything that a new premium phone can do for a fraction of the price. Save some money and still take great snaps.Wait for sales: Many of the best phone camera systems are found on more expensive models. Look for sales and discounts around major holidays, especially Amazon's Prime Day and Cyber Monday.Check if you're already invested: Have you already bought a lot of iPhone camera accessories like a case or tripod? Stick with an iPhone if you still want access to them. Make sure your new iPhone will still work with your setup. How we test phones
We test every phone in real-world scenarios, focusing on its features, design, performance, cameras, battery life and overall value. We document our findings in an initial review that is periodically updated when there are new software updates, or to compare it against new phones from competitors such as Apple, Samsung, Google and OnePlus.
The Galaxy Z Flip 5 largely has the same camera hardware as the Z Flip 4. But the new chip brings some image processing improvements. Lisa Eadicicco/CNETPhotographyPhotography is a major focus for most phones these days, so we take pictures and videos of various subjects in a variety of settings and lighting scenarios. We try out any new camera modes, such as ProRes Log video that debuted with the iPhone 15 Pro and 15 Pro Max, or the Magic Editor photo tool that launched with the Google Pixel 8 series.Battery lifeBattery testing is conducted in a variety of ways. We assess how long a phone lasts during a typical day of use and note how it performs during more focused sessions of video calls, media streaming and gaming. We also conduct a video playback test, as a simple, replicable measure of pure battery life, which isn't always included in the initial review but sometimes added later in an update.Performance measuringWe use benchmarking apps to measure each phone's performance, alongside our own anecdotal experiences using the phone for our review. Most notable are how the graphics and animations look. Are they smooth? Or do they lag or stutter? We also look at how quickly the phone switches between horizontal and vertical orientations, and how fast the camera app opens and is ready to take a photo.
Emergency SOS might be one of the most important features to come out on any phone this year. Kevin Heinz/CNETWe perform processor-heavy tasks like editing photos, exporting videos and playing games. We evaluate whether a newer version of a particular phone includes enough features to make it worth upgrading from older models.Read more: How We Test Phones Other phones we tested
The $1,400 Sony Xperia 1 V retains all the best features of previous Xperia 1 phones, like a 4K high refresh rate display, expandable storage, cutting-edge cameras with eye-tracking autofocus, a 5,000-mAh battery, a dedicated hardware shutter button and a headphone jack, all wrapped in Sony's lovely, mundane utilitarian design. The phone brims with numerous quality-of-life improvements for its target audience of creative types like photographers, filmmakers, musicians and gamers who want nuanced control over the content they make. Its $1,400 price tag keeps this phone squarely aimed beyond most consumers. Phone camera FAQs
Which phone camera is the best at night?
The Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra, Apple iPhone 16 Pro and Google Pixel 9 Pro all have dedicated night modes that take multiple images and combine them in a single photo that's brighter and has less image noise. All three are good, and it's nearly impossible to say one is better than another.
Show more
Are iPhone or Samsung cameras better?
Samsung Galaxy phones and Apple iPhones have some of the best cameras found on any phone. Either smartphone is a capable photographic tool, but neither is such a clear leader that it's worth moving from Android to iOS or vice versa. If you want the biggest telephoto zoom camera found on a phone, grab a Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra. If you want an excellent all-around shooter that produces natural-looking images and videos, along with pro features like ProRes and Log video capture, get an iPhone 16 Pro or 16 Pro Max.
Show more
What's the difference between real cameras and phone cameras?
The biggest difference between a dedicated camera and a phone camera is the size. A dedicated camera has a larger sensor and bigger lenses that take in more light. The results are photos that have more detail, a wider dynamic range and more versatility in medium and low light. A phone camera is tiny. The sensor is smaller than a fingernail and the lens is about the size of a single Lego brick. To overcome the limitations of a small sensor and lens, a phone uses computational photography (AI and machine learning) to combine parts of multiple images into a single photo that's brighter and has more detail than a phone camera alone.
Show more
What to look forward to in 2025
Samsung teased the Galaxy S25 Edge at its January Galaxy Unpacked event. Not much is known about the phone aside from it being slimmer than the regular Galaxy S25. Here's everything you need to know about the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge. There's also buzz for the next iPhone, likely called the iPhone 17 -- from a slimmer version of the upcoming device to a new screen with a higher refresh rate on baseline models. We've rounded up rumors, leaks and analysis on the iPhone 17 Air (one of several nicknames for Apple's next iPhone). Read CNET's iPhone 17 rumor roundup for more info.
About the Author
Andrew Lanxon Editor at Large; Lead Photographer, Europe Andrew Lanxon Editor at Large; Lead Photographer, Europe
When he's not testing the latest phones or phone cameras, Andrew can normally be found with his own camera in hand or behind his drums or eating his stash of home-cooked food -- sometimes all at once.
Read full bio
Also written by
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology ReporterAlso written by
Patrick Holland Managing Editor
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.