Best Creatine Supplements, Nutritionist Picks – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
Supplements
The Best Creatine Supplements of 2025: An Expert Guide
Audited & Verified: Jun 11, 2024, 7:12am
Lauren Silva
Contributor
Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of...
See Full Bio
Lauren Silva
Contributor
Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of...
See Full Bio
Written By
Lauren Silva
Lauren Silva
Contributor
Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of...
See Full Bio
Lauren Silva
Contributor
Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of...
See Full Bio
Contributor
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
Integrative Medicine
Dr. Sasha Rose is a licensed naturopathic doctor and acupuncturist with over 17 years of experience. She is the founder, owner and medical director of Wildwood Health Center located in Southern Maine. Her first book, Digestive Relief for Life: The Se...
See Full Bio
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
Integrative Medicine
Dr. Sasha Rose is a licensed naturopathic doctor and acupuncturist with over 17 years of experience. She is the founder, owner and medical director of Wildwood Health Center located in Southern Maine. Her first book, Digestive Relief for Life: The Se...
See Full Bio
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
Integrative Medicine
Dr. Sasha Rose is a licensed naturopathic doctor and acupuncturist with over 17 years of experience. She is the founder, owner and medical director of Wildwood Health Center located in Southern Maine. Her first book, Digestive Relief for Life: The Se...
See Full Bio
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
Integrative Medicine
Dr. Sasha Rose is a licensed naturopathic doctor and acupuncturist with over 17 years of experience. She is the founder, owner and medical director of Wildwood Health Center located in Southern Maine. Her first book, Digestive Relief for Life: The Se...
See Full Bio
Medically Reviewed
|
Integrative Medicine
& 1 other
Audited & Verified: Jun 11, 2024, 7:12am
Have a question we may not have answered?
Ask our editors here
Have a question for Lauren Silva or our other editors?
Ask here for a chance to be featured in a story.
Submit your question
This form is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google
Privacy Policy and
Terms of Service apply.
Send a note to
Lauren Silva,
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
and our other editors. We read every email.
By submitting this form, you agree to allow us to collect, store, and potentially publish your provided information, including name and question, in the article or any related content. You confirm that the submitted content is original, accurate, and non-infringing on any third-party rights. We may contact you via the email address provided for follow-up questions or to notify you if your question is selected for publication. See our
Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
Thank you for submitting your question.
Keep reading Forbes Advisor for the chance to see the answer to your question in one of our upcoming stories. Our editors also may be in touch with follow-up questions.
Continue reading
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Getty Creative
Table of Contents
What is Creatine?
The Best Creatine Supplements, Recommended By Nutrition Experts
Thorne Creatine Monohydrate
Klean Athlete Klean Creatine
What Are The Health Benefits of Creatine?
Potential Side Effects of Creatine
Types of Creatine Supplements
How Much Does Creatine Cost?
Who Should Take Creatine Supplements?
Who Should Avoid Taking Creatine Supplements?
How to Take Creatine Supplements
Is Creatine Worth Using?
What Happens If You Stop Taking Creatine?
How to Choose the Best Creatine Supplement for You
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
{{ tocState.toggleTocShowMore ? 'Show more' : 'Show less' }}
If you’re an athlete, or have found yourself focused on building muscle, it’s very possible you’ve heard about creatine, which is a natural compound synthesized from the amino acids glycine, arginine and methionine, and which is also available in supplement form.
Claims about creatine’s ability to increase athletic performance abound, but do these claims really hold up when it comes to scientific research? Read on to learn more about the benefits of this supplement, if it’s essential for athletes, and a few brands that may be worth it—as recommended by Forbes Health Advisory Board nutrition experts.
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Transparent Labs Creatine HMBContains zero artificial sweeteners, colored dyes, unnecessary fillers, or harmful additivesCombination of Creatine Monohydrate and HMB is clinically proven to increase lean muscle mass by +25% compared to Creatine aloneAdded BioPerine increases bioavailability and absorptionInformed Choice Certified for dosage, purity, and safety from banned substances	Shop Now	On Transparent Lab's Website
What is Creatine?
Amino acids are molecules in the body that combine to form proteins. As an amino acid derivative, creatine plays a big part in creating energy for our cells, especially in times of increased energy demand, such as sleep deprivation, certain mental health conditions or neurological diseases.
Specifically, creatine helps create the compound adenosine triphosphate (ATP). “ATP is the body’s source of energy, and when [it is] depleted in the muscles, fatigue starts to occur,” says Destini Moody, a registered sports dietitian at Garage Gym Reviews and head of performance nutrition for the NBA G League Ignite team. When creatine is added to the muscles [in the form of food or creatine supplements] it can help regenerate ATP faster, which can boost exercise performance, notes Moody.
The human body produces creatine on its own, and additional amounts can be ingested via meat, seafood, milk and eggs, as well as from supplements. The majority of creatine, about 95%, is found in skeletal muscles, which is why creatine is largely associated with muscle gain and exercise. The remaining 5% of creatine in the body can be found in the brain and testes (in those with male reproductive organs)[1]Kreider RB, Kalman DS, Antonio J, et al. International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: safety and efficacy of creatine supplementation in exercise, sport, and medicine. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2017;14:18. .
The Best Creatine Supplements, Recommended By Nutrition Experts
When it comes to finding the right creatine supplement for you, there are many options out there. We spoke to a few nutrition experts and Forbes Health Advisory Board members to get their top recommendations to help make your decision making a little easier.
Thorne Creatine MonohydratePrice: $40 for 90 servingsCreatine per serving: 5 grams	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked It“Thorne’s Creatine Monohydrate is a micronized form of creatine, which makes it more soluble in water and allows it to mix easily and dissolve completely (which can reduce stomach upset for many),” notes Melina Jampolis, M.D., an internist, board-certified physician nutrition specialist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. According to Dr. Jampolis, this brand of creatine is also used by the U.S. Olympic teams, pro athletes and the Mayo Clinic.In addition to noting that Thorne’s Creatine Monohydrate is NSF Certified for Sport (which is why it’s so widely used by professional athletes), Toby Amidor, registered dietitian, author and Forbes Health Advisory Board member notes that this particular creatine is also gluten free.
Klean Athlete Klean CreatinePrice: $31.60 for 60 servingsCreatine per serving: 5 grams	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked It“Douglas Labs’ Klean Athlete line is one of the leading clinical providers of dietary supplements known for their safety, efficacy and use of third-party testing,” notes Dr. Jampolis, who also recommends Klean Creatine due to its pure creatine monohydrate formulation and the fact that it’s free from gluten and GMOs.This particular creatine is also free of wheat, artificial coloring, flavoring and sweeteners, notes Amidor, and is vegan friendly and NSF Certified for Sport.
What Are The Health Benefits of Creatine?
Creatine may have several benefits, but it’s important to note that most studies regarding creatine’s efficacy and safety pertain to a specific type called creatine monohydrate. Supplements that contain other forms of creatine and/or other ingredients may not offer the same exact benefits.
Improved muscle recovery. Creatine supplementation can decrease recovery time between workouts by lessening some muscle damage and promoting muscle fiber recovery[2]Wax B, Kerksick CM, Jagim AR, Mayo JJ, Lyons BC, Kreider RB. Creatine for Exercise and Sports Performance, with Recovery Considerations for Healthy Populations. Nutrients. 2021;13(6):1915. .
Creatine use can also help reduce muscle soreness, which can enable more frequent exercising without the barrier of soreness, says Moody.
Increased power and endurance. Studies have largely analyzed creatine’s performance-improving benefits in fitness and weight training, running and swimming; in these studies, participants generally saw a 10% to 20% improvement in their athletic performance. While most studies have been performed in men, creatine has also shown benefits in women and children[1]Kreider RB, Kalman DS, Antonio J, et al. International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: safety and efficacy of creatine supplementation in exercise, sport, and medicine. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2017;14:18. .
Increased muscle size and strength. Several studies show creatine supplementation increases the availability of creatine for muscles, contributing to greater strength and muscle mass, as well as performance. However, some studies indicate that women may not see as much gain from supplementation as men[2]Wax B, Kerksick CM, Jagim AR, Mayo JJ, Lyons BC, Kreider RB. Creatine for Exercise and Sports Performance, with Recovery Considerations for Healthy Populations. Nutrients. 2021;13(6):1915. .
Postmenopausal muscle strength. At least one study maintains that high doses of creatine, about 0.3 grams per kilogram of body weight per day, may increase muscle size and function in postmenopausal individuals[4]Forbes SC, Cordingley DM, Cornish SM, et al. Effects of Creatine Supplementation on Brain Function and Health. Nutrients. 2022;14(5):921. .
Neuroprotective properties. Study results are mixed, but there is some evidence to suggest that creatine supplementation may be beneficial for cognitive functioning, especially in memory[5]Antonio J, Candow DG, Forbes SC, et al. Common questions and misconceptions about creatine supplementation: what does the scientific evidence really show?. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2021;18(1):13. .
Further, studies show some evidence of improved exercise capacity in people with neuromuscular disease, such as muscular dystrophy, Huntington’s disease, Parkinson disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)[2]Wax B, Kerksick CM, Jagim AR, Mayo JJ, Lyons BC, Kreider RB. Creatine for Exercise and Sports Performance, with Recovery Considerations for Healthy Populations. Nutrients. 2021;13(6):1915. .
Explore Our Featured Supplements Partners
Transparent Labs Creatine HMB
Shop NowTransparent Lab's Website
Contains zero artificial sweeteners, colored dyes, unnecessary fillers, or harmful additives Combination of Creatine Monohydrate and HMB is clinically proven to increase lean muscle mass by +25% compared to Creatine alone Added BioPerine increases bioavailability and absorption Informed Choice Certified for dosage, purity, and safety from banned substances
Nutricost Creatine Monohydrate
Shop NowOn Amazon Website
Works to help increase ATP for optimal muscle performance High quality micronized creatine monohydrate Purity tested to make sure it’s free from contaminants Non- GMO, gluten free 5 grams per serving
Jacked Factory Creatine Monohydrate
Shop NowOn Amazon Website
Pure Creatine Monohydrate Powder for Pre or post-workout Manufactured in a cGMP-Certified Facility Creatine supplementation increases strength, power, endurance, and muscle hypertrophy It won’t cause gastrointestinal discomfort like others
Explore Our Featured Supplements Partners
Transparent Labs Creatine HMB
Contains zero artificial sweeteners, colored dyes, unnecessary fillers, or harmful additives Combination of Creatine Monohydrate and HMB is clinically proven to increase lean muscle mass by +25% compared to Creatine alone Added BioPerine increases bioavailability and absorption Informed Choice Certified for dosage, purity, and safety from banned substances
Shop NowTransparent Lab's Website
Nutricost Creatine Monohydrate
Works to help increase ATP for optimal muscle performance High quality micronized creatine monohydrate Purity tested to make sure it’s free from contaminants Non- GMO, gluten free 5 grams per serving
Shop NowOn Amazon Website
Jacked Factory Creatine Monohydrate
Pure Creatine Monohydrate Powder for Pre or post-workout Manufactured in a cGMP-Certified Facility Creatine supplementation increases strength, power, endurance, and muscle hypertrophy It won’t cause gastrointestinal discomfort like others
Shop NowOn Amazon Website
See More See Less
Potential Side Effects of Creatine
“Side effects of creatine [supplementation] are generally mild and go away over time,” says Jesse Feder, a registered dietitian, personal trainer and contributor to My Crohn’s and Colitis Team, a social network for individuals living with those conditions.
Side effects of creatine supplementation, per Feder and Alex Larson, a Minnesota-based registered dietitian and athlete nutrition coach at Alex Larson Nutrition, can include:
Bloating
Gas
Stomach cramps
Water retention during first days of supplementation
Nausea and diarrhea (when consuming too much creatine at one time)
Are Creatine Supplements Safe?
Research by the International Society of Sports Nutrition indicates that creatine supplementation is generally safe and well-tolerated in adults for both short and long-term use[1]Kreider RB, Kalman DS, Antonio J, et al. International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: safety and efficacy of creatine supplementation in exercise, sport, and medicine. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2017;14:18. . However, more research is needed to determine whether creatine use is safe for children and teenagers.
When taken in very high doses, creatine supplements may cause kidney damage or cause the body to stop producing creatine naturally. Consult with your doctor to determine if you would benefit from taking a creatine supplement.
Types of Creatine Supplements
Creatine supplements may contain different forms of creatine, each with different purported benefits. While creatine monohydrate is the most widely used and most researched form, various supplements may use creatine in other forms, like ethyl ester, hydrochloride and more.
Creatine Monohydrate
Creatine monohydrate is the most commonly used form of creatine in dietary supplements. Research indicates that taking creatine monohydrate supplements during athletic training or exercise may promote muscle gain as well as increased strength and exercise capacity[5]Antonio J, Candow DG, Forbes SC, et al. Common questions and misconceptions about creatine supplementation: what does the scientific evidence really show?. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2021;18(1):13. .
Creatine Ethyl Ester
Creatine ethyl ester is a synthetic form of creatine thought to improve the supplement’s absorption in the stomach. While some research supports that creatine ethyl ester may be better absorbed in the body compared to other creatine forms, other studies indicate that ethyl ester creatine is not as effective in increasing muscle creatine levels as creatine monohydrate[6]Gufford BT, Ezell EL, Robinson DH, et al. pH-dependent stability of creatine ethyl ester: relevance to oral absorption. J Diet Suppl. 2013;10(3):241-251. [7]Spillane M, Schoch R, Cooke M, et al. The effects of creatine ethyl ester supplementation combined with heavy resistance training on body composition, muscle performance, and serum and muscle creatine levels. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2009;6:6. .
Creatine Hydrochloride
Some manufacturers claim that creatine hydrochloride has a higher body absorption rate and requires a lower dose to experience positive effects of the supplement compared to other forms of creatine. In fact, one study found that creatine in hydrochloride form was significantly more water-soluble than creatine monohydrate[8]Gufford BT, Sriraghavan K, Miller NJ, et al. Physicochemical characterization of creatine N-methylguanidinium salts. J Diet Suppl. 2010;7(3):240-252. .
However, another small study examining the effects of creatine hydrochloride and creatine monohydrate on 36 participants found that creatine hydrochloride consumption did not produce greater athletic performance or hormonal changes than in those who took creatine in monohydrate form[9]M Tayebi, H Arazi. Is creatine hydrochloride better than creatine monohydrate for the improvement of physical performance and hormonal changes in young trained men?. Science & Sports. 2020;35(5):135-141. .
Creatine Magnesium Chelate
Some research indicates that creatine magnesium chelate supplements may increase water stores in the body, which may improve muscular creatine and strength. However, one specific, older study from 2004 examining bench press endurance and strength of individuals taking creatine magnesium chelate or creatine monohydrate supplements found that both supplements improved body strength, but that neither supplement outperformed the other[10]Selsby JT, DiSilvestro RA, Devor ST. Mg2+-creatine chelate and a low-dose creatine supplementation regimen improve exercise performance. J Strength Cond Res. 2004;18(2):311-315. .
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Jacked Factory Creatine Monohydrate5000mg of unflavored, pure creatine monohydrate per scoopCan be stacked with other fitness supplements like pre-workout and BCAAsRapidly absorbed without causing gastrointestinal discomfortFree of harsh chemicals, fillers, and artificial food dyes	Shop Now	On Amazon
How Much Does Creatine Cost?
Creatine supplements may cost anywhere from $10 to $99 depending on factors like the manufacturer, servings per container and the form of creatine contained in the supplement.
Who Should Take Creatine Supplements?
Creatine supplements are usually best for athletes and individuals who regularly exercise to increase muscle mass and want to optimize their exercise recovery.
“Research has also found small, notable benefits to athletes’ sprinting performance,” Larson adds.
Moody and some researchers note that women may specifically benefit from creatine supplementation, as they tend to report consuming significantly smaller amounts of creatine from their diet than men, and have 70–80% lower endogenous creatine stores[3]Smith-Ryan AE, Cabre HE, Eckerson JM, Candow DG. Creatine Supplementation in Women's Health: A Lifespan Perspective. Nutrients. 2021;13(3):877. .
“It is important to drink your recommended daily intake of water when supplementing with creatine,” notes Jenna Stangland, a sports dietitian with supplement brand Momentous, director of nutrition with the Minnesota Timberwolves NBA organization and team dietitian for the Minnesota Wild NHL organization. Water is integral in getting creatine to your muscles—where the creatine is then stored—and in the process of creating energy from creatine. “Making sure you are drinking water helps the intracellular process of how creatine is used to make energy,” says Stangland.
Who Should Avoid Taking Creatine Supplements?
Individuals with kidney, liver or heart disease and/or high blood pressure should avoid creatine supplementation, say Larson and Moody, as this can worsen such existing conditions.
For otherwise healthy individuals, when taken as advised (such as via the directions on your supplement or a recommendation from a registered dietitian), there should be no adverse effects from creatine. However, excessive amounts may cause bodily harm, as evidenced by one case involving an athlete who took more than 10 grams of creatine daily for 6 weeks and experienced rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of skeletal muscle tissue) and sudden kidney failure.
How to Take Creatine Supplements
Creatine supplements typically come in powdered form that dissolve in water. Other supplement forms like liquids, capsules or tablets and drink mixes are also widely available. Always take creatine supplements as directed by the product label.
How Much Creatine Should You Take?
How much creatine you should take per day depends on factors like your personal health history and fitness goals. For those who opt for creatine loading, a typical dose may be 5 grams of creatine monohydrate four times per day for two to five days. For those who use creatine supplements for maintenance in exercise performance, you’ll typically only need to take 2 grams of creatine per day.
Consult with your doctor to determine how much creatine you should take per day.
When Is the Best Time to Take Creatine?
There is no best time of day to take creatine. You just need to take it either right before or right after your workout, whether that’s in the morning, afternoon or night, according to Feder and Larson. If creatine causes stomach issues, Larson recommends taking it with a meal.
Do I Need to Load Creatine?
Creatine loading refers to the practice of taking small doses of creatine (usually 5 grams) four to five times per day for five to seven days. While creatine loading may increase muscular stores of creatine, research suggests that taking smaller doses of creatine (3 to 5 grams per day) may also lead to increased muscular creatine stores and improve muscle mass, athletic performance and recovery[6]Gufford BT, Ezell EL, Robinson DH, et al. pH-dependent stability of creatine ethyl ester: relevance to oral absorption. J Diet Suppl. 2013;10(3):241-251. .
Is Creatine Worth Using?
Creatine is mostly worth using if you are looking to increase your strength and power in your exercises and train regularly, according to Feder, Larson and Moody.
What Happens If You Stop Taking Creatine?
Generally, when you stop taking creatine supplements, the creatine levels in your body will restore to pre-supplementation levels.
One small study from 2004 examining the effects of creatine on older adult men found that when individuals stopped taking creatine they experienced reduced muscular endurance[11]Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Chad KE, Chrusch MJ, Davison KS, Burke DG. Effect of ceasing creatine supplementation while maintaining resistance training in older men. J Aging Phys Act. 2004;12(3):219-231. . However, participants did not experience losses in muscle strength or lean tissue mass[11]Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Chad KE, Chrusch MJ, Davison KS, Burke DG. Effect of ceasing creatine supplementation while maintaining resistance training in older men. J Aging Phys Act. 2004;12(3):219-231. . More research is needed to understand how discontinuing creatine use may affect other populations.
How to Choose the Best Creatine Supplement for You
The best creatine supplement for you depends on factors like personal preference, health history, cost and more. Consult with your healthcare provider to determine if you should take a creatine supplement.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What type of creatine is best?
The best type of creatine depends on factors such as the type of creatine included, cost and personal preference.
How do you find the best creatine supplement?
Per our experts, the best creatine supplements are those that: Contain creatine monohydrate and no other ingredients, contain 5 grams of creatine in one serving and have third-party testing and backing from NSF Certified for Sport or Informed Sport.
Can you take creatine every day?
Yes, you can take 3 to 5 grams of creatine each day, even on your days off to keep your creatine stores high, say Stangland and Moody.
Is creatine better before or after a workout?
Research suggests that taking creatine after a workout may increase fat-free mass and strength.
How long does creatine take to work?
It may take two to four weeks for individuals to experience the benefits of creatine supplementation such as increased muscular strength.
Can I mix creatine with protein?
It’s generally safe to take creatine and protein supplements simultaneously.
Does creatine affect testosterone?
No, creatine supplementation does not affect testosterone levels in the body.
Sources
Footnotes
Kreider RB, Kalman DS, Antonio J, et al.
International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: safety and efficacy of creatine supplementation in exercise, sport, and medicine. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2017;14:18.
Wax B, Kerksick CM, Jagim AR, Mayo JJ, Lyons BC, Kreider RB.
Creatine for Exercise and Sports Performance, with Recovery Considerations for Healthy Populations. Nutrients. 2021;13(6):1915.
Smith-Ryan AE, Cabre HE, Eckerson JM, Candow DG.
Creatine Supplementation in Women's Health: A Lifespan Perspective. Nutrients. 2021;13(3):877.
Forbes SC, Cordingley DM, Cornish SM, et al.
Effects of Creatine Supplementation on Brain Function and Health. Nutrients. 2022;14(5):921.
Antonio J, Candow DG, Forbes SC, et al.
Common questions and misconceptions about creatine supplementation: what does the scientific evidence really show?. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2021;18(1):13.
Gufford BT, Ezell EL, Robinson DH, et al.
pH-dependent stability of creatine ethyl ester: relevance to oral absorption. J Diet Suppl. 2013;10(3):241-251.
Spillane M, Schoch R, Cooke M, et al.
The effects of creatine ethyl ester supplementation combined with heavy resistance training on body composition, muscle performance, and serum and muscle creatine levels. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2009;6:6.
Gufford BT, Sriraghavan K, Miller NJ, et al.
Physicochemical characterization of creatine N-methylguanidinium salts. J Diet Suppl. 2010;7(3):240-252.
M Tayebi, H Arazi.
Is creatine hydrochloride better than creatine monohydrate for the improvement of physical performance and hormonal changes in young trained men?. Science & Sports. 2020;35(5):135-141.
Selsby JT, DiSilvestro RA, Devor ST.
Mg2+-creatine chelate and a low-dose creatine supplementation regimen improve exercise performance. J Strength Cond Res. 2004;18(2):311-315.
Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Chad KE, Chrusch MJ, Davison KS, Burke DG.
Effect of ceasing creatine supplementation while maintaining resistance training in older men. J Aging Phys Act. 2004;12(3):219-231.
References
Kreider RB, Jäger R, Purpura M.
Bioavailability, Efficacy, Safety, and Regulatory Status of Creatine and Related Compounds: A Critical Review.
Nutrients. 2022;14(5):1035.
Water, drinks and hydration.
NHS. Accessed 7/14/2023.
Creatine.
Mount Sinai. Accessed 8/1/2023.
Do Athletes Really Need Creatine Supplements?.
United States Anti-Doping Agency. Accessed 8/1/2023.
LR Brilla, MS Giroux, A Taylor, KM Knutzen.
Magnesium-creatine supplementation effects on body water.
Metabolism. 2003;52(9):1136-1140.
Hultman E, Söderlund K, Timmons JA, Cederblad G, Greenhaff PL.
Muscle creatine loading in men.
J Appl Physiol (1985). 1996;81(1):232-237.
Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Chad KE, Chrusch MJ, Davison KS, Burke DG.
Effect of ceasing creatine supplementation while maintaining resistance training in older men.
J Aging Phys Act. 2004;12(3):219-231.
Antonio J, Ciccone V.
The effects of pre versus post workout supplementation of creatine monohydrate on body composition and strength.
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10:36.
Kaviani M, Abassi A, Chilibeck PD.
Creatine monohydrate supplementation during eight weeks of progressive resistance training increases strength in as little as two weeks without reducing markers of muscle damage.
J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2019;59(4):608-612.
Kreider RB, Kalman DS, Antonio J, et al.
International Society of Sports Nutrition position stand: safety and efficacy of creatine supplementation in exercise, sport, and medicine.
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2017;14:18.
Outlaw J, Burks B, Hayward S, et al.
Effects of post-exercise whey protein vs. whey protein plus creatine consumption in females.
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10(Suppl 1):P20.
Find The Right Supplements For You
Best Multivitamins For Men
Best Multivitamins For Women
Best Protein Powder
Best Whey Protein Powder
Best Protein Powder For Weight Loss
Best Protein Powder For Muscle Gain
Best Protein Shakes
Best Greens Powders
Best Magnesium Supplements
Best Pre-Workout
Best Vitamin C Supplements
Best Zinc Supplements
Best Iron Supplements
Best Vitamins For Energy
Best Vitamins For Hair Growth
Best Probiotic Supplements
Best Collagen Powders
AG1 (Athletic Greens) Review
Learn More About Supplements
Your Guide To The Best Fish Oil Supplements
I’m A Nutrition Scientist—Here’s Why I Take A Multivitamin
Your Guide To Vitamin D: Benefits, Best Sources And More
Next Up In Supplements
Best Protein Powders
Best Collagen Powders
Best Greens Powders
Best Pre Workout
Best Clean Protein Powders
Best Whey Protein Powder
Best Protein Powders For Weight Loss
Best Fish Oil Supplements
Best Supplements And Vitamins For Gut Health
More from
Support Your Weight Loss And Ignite Your Metabolism With GNC
By
Forbes Health Brand Group
Best Apple Cider Vinegar Gummies: What To Know
By
Valerie Williams
Health Benefits Of Black Seed Oil, According To Experts
By
Heidi Borst
Mushroom Supplements: Benefits, Types and Potential Risks
By
Emily Phares
Apple Cider Vinegar Gummies: Benefits, Research & What You Need To Know
By
Valerie Williams
Thyroid Supplements: Safety, Tips And Recommendations
By
Heidi Borst
Bromelain: Health Benefits, Dosage And Side Effects
By
Heidi Borst
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Lauren Silva
Contributor
Lauren Silva, a freelance writer in New York City, believes in feeling good in your body and making that experience accessible to everyone across generations. The proof is in her ever-piling browser tabs and newsletters, which help her stay on top of the latest wellness trends. When she’s not researching sustainable alternatives to her everyday products, Lauren is likely attempting to make a dent in her “TBR” book pile.
Sasha Rose, N.D., L.Ac., M.S.O.M.
Integrative Medicine
Dr. Sasha Rose is a licensed naturopathic doctor and acupuncturist with over 17 years of experience. She is the founder, owner and medical director of Wildwood Health Center located in Southern Maine. Her first book, Digestive Relief for Life: The Secret to the Mind-Gut Connection, was published in 2015. Her clinical speciality is integrative gastroenterology, treating irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), small intestine bacterial overgrowth, acid reflux, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and chronic idiopathic constipation. She sees patients in person and via telemedicine visits.
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise