Best early Prime Day Amazon Echo device deals 2025: My 10 favorites sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Smart Home
Best early Amazon Prime Day Echo device deals 2025: I'm tracking 10 of my favorite discounts before October
Prime Day will be here before we know it, but we've already found some great deals on Amazon Echo devices ahead of the sales event.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 24, 2025 at 6:09 a.m. PT
Amazon Echo Show 5 | for $65 (save $25)
Amazon Echo Show 5
for $65 (save $25)
View now View at Amazon Amazon Echo Buds with active noise cancellation | for $45 (save $75)
Amazon Echo Buds with active noise cancellation
for $45 (save $75)
View now View at Amazon Amazon Echo Buds | for $25 (save $25)
Amazon Echo Buds
for $25 (save $25)
View now View at Amazon Amazon Echo Pop Kids | for $28 (save $22)
Amazon Echo Pop Kids
for $28 (save $22)
View now View at Amazon Amazon Echo Auto | for $20 (save $35)
Amazon Echo Auto
for $20 (save $35)
View now View at Amazon
Amazon Echo Show 5 Kids | for $65 (save $35)
Amazon Echo Show 5 Kids
for $65 (save $35)
View now View at Best Buy
Show more (1 item)
Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale -- better known as October Prime Day -- kicks off Oct. 7, and is the best time to buy Amazon devices, including Echo speakers and displays. The online retailer features some of the biggest deals on its own devices during these sales events, so you can trust that you're getting the best deal on an Echo device if you're shopping on Prime Day.Also: Amazon October Prime Day: Everything you need to knowI've picked up quite a few Echo products and Amazon devices myself during past Prime Day sales. Combining this experience with my smart home expertise, I've rounded up the best deals on Amazon Echo devices for the Prime Big Deal Days event coming up next month. Also: The best Alexa devices you can buy: Expert tested and recommendedFind Prime Day dealsBest Amazon Echo device deals for Prime Day 2025
Amazon Echo Show 5 for $65 (save $25)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $65 (28% off)Original price: $90One of the top deals we've found for Amazon Echo devices before the launch of Amazon's October event is for the Amazon Echo Show 5. Currently available for $65, this smart display offers access and control of your smart home devices via the Alexa voice assistant, a 5.5-inch display for viewing content, including the news and weather reports, as well as built-in speakers. Review: Amazon's Echo Show 5 made me a smart display believer (and my daughter, too)
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Echo Buds with active noise cancellation for $45 (save $75)
Photo by Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $45 (63% off)Original price: $120These Amazon Echo Buds with active noise cancellation are a steal ahead of Amazon's main sales event. Available with a 63% discount, Amazon's latest Echo earbud range offers ANC, dynamic audio, hands-free access to Alexa, and comes with a wired charging case.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Echo Buds for $25 (save $25)
Image: Amazon
Current price: $25 (25% off)Original price: $50If you're looking for cheaper earbuds, you will pay only $25 ahead of Amazon's October Prime Day event for the 2023 release. These Amazon Echo Buds don't come with the same active noise cancellation, but they do offer up to 20 hours of battery life.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Echo Pop Kids for $28 (save $22)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $28 (44% off)Original price: $50A cute and interesting device, which could be a great gift for your child over the holiday season, is the Amazon Echo Pop Kids version. Now available for only $28, this tiny voice assistant-enabled speaker can be used to answer queries, filter content, and stream music, while parents can control access and set time limits. Six months of Amazon Kids+, Marvel's Avengers is included.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Echo Auto for $20 (save $35)
Amazon
Current price: $20 (64% off)Original price: $55Ever thought about adding the Amazon Alexa assistant to your car? If you have an existing Alexa and Echo ecosystem running at home, you might want to explore how the Amazon Echo Auto can extend this network to your vehicle. Use the device to access Alexa, associated skills, and stream your playlists.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Amazon Echo Show 5 Kids for $65 (save $35)
Amazon
Current price: $65 (35% off)Original price: $100Children and smart home devices -- with access to the Internet -- do not always mix, but if you'd like to introduce your kids to smart displays in a safe manner, consider the $35 discount available for the Amazon Echo Show 5 Kids (3rd-gen). Available at Best Buy, this display only shows child-safe content thanks to its parental controls and has built-in speakers, alongside access to Spotify.Also: The best Alexa devices you can buy: Expert tested and recommended
Show more
View now at Best Buy
More October Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsAmazon Echo Dot Kids: $38 (save $22 at Best Buy): For a kid-friendly version of the Echo Dot, you can save $22 at Best Buy on the 2022 Echo Dot Kids model. Amazon Echo Spot alarm clock (renewed): $72 (save $8 at Target): Ever considered using an Amazon Echo alarm clock? Schedule this smart, stylish little smart home device so you wake up on time and don't miss important appointments. Amazon Fire HD 10 tablet: $90 (save $50): While it's not an Echo device, Amazon's range of Fire HD tablets is also very popular. You can pick up a lightweight, 10.1-inch tablet that works with Amazon Alexa with a $50 discount. Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K: $40 (save $20): Another smart home product you might consider adding to your Echo ecosystem is an Amazon Fire TV Stick. You can save 33% ahead of Amazon's October event. FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? This year, Amazon's October Prime Day sale runs from October 7 to 8. The annual sale will last for two days in the fall, and you can expect to see a range of deals on household goods and electronics.Are Amazon Echo devices really cheaper on Prime Day? They often are! As it is Amazon's own event, Prime Day deals always appear for Amazon-branded products, including the Echo device family. How did we choose these October Prime Day deals?ZDNET authors only write about deals that interest us personally and include products that we own, have tested, or want to buy. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale, as is often the case with Apple devices), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal actually represents value for your money. We also considered customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter during limited-time events.
Show more
What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget dealsOur top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best early Target Circle Week deals to compete with Prime Day: I'm tracking 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best October Prime Day deals under $100: My favorite early sales
Top Best Buy deals before Prime Day 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use