Nearly everything you've heard about AI and job cuts is wrong - here's why | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Nearly everything you've heard about AI and job cuts is wrong - here's why
Looking for a few good AI leaders - are you ready?
Written by
Joe McKendrick, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 6:50 a.m. PT
seksan Mongkhonkhamsao/Moment via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysRumors of 50% AI-related job cuts are greatly exaggerated.Leaders are needed to step up and keep AI efforts grounded.Vibe coding is the new citizen development.What is the biggest problem with AI today? It's leadership. Good leaders are needed to tamp down expectations -- or fears -- of what AI will bring. Then, someone needs to maintain guardrails for "vibe coding," the latest form of citizen development.Also: You've heard about AI killing jobs, but here are 15 news ones AI could createAI transformation is going to take a lot longer than we think, because companies simply don't know where to go with it. "Every day, we get announcements about new AI models. Every day someone claims we're around the corner from [artificial general intelligence]," said Tom Davenport, the AI/data analytics guru of gurus. Real transformation requires process redesign The reality on the ground is, however, that "organizations are struggling to find measurable value from generative AI," he said in a recent podcast hosted by Paul Estes. That's because "real transformation requires process redesign -- not just new tools; enterprise-level projects -- not individual prompts; and years of persistent effort." In other words, AI is not too different from the technology waves of the past. And these lessons get learned over and over again. Simply firing up generative AI with prompts doesn't create measurable economic value.Davenport debunked what he calls an outright myth -- that AI will soon eliminate 50% of white-collar jobs. For example, he explained, "We talked to a bunch of insurance companies. A number of them said, 'we don't need those entry-level people anymore, because we're having AI do the tasks they used to do.' And I'd say, 'how are you going to get the experienced people of the future if you don't hire entry-level people?' And they said, 'we're not quite sure.' And every company that I've talked to has said the same thing for 12 or 13 years now. They don't have a good plan for that."Also: I got 4 years of product development done in 4 days for $200, and I'm still stunnedCorporate boards and leaders need to be steered away from the notion that AI will enable their companies to chop out 50% of their white-collar workers. "Those discussions are happening at the boardroom level, but it's not going to happen," Davenport related. "Those CEOs and board members will be retired or dead before that takes place."Simultaneously, talk of going all-in on AI is ultimately self-defeating. "It's a really bad idea to say, 'I think we won't need half of the people that we have today," Davenport explained. "That does not encourage people to try to figure out how to use AI to be more productive. It suggests that if you're too successful, you're out of here."It's likely that AI may even necessitate the creation of new jobs we have yet to imagine. But in the meantime, the best path forward is to involve people more deeply in the AI process, starting with opening up opportunities for vibe coding.Everyone's a citizen developer now"AI turns us all into citizen developers," Davenport said. "I've been blown away by what I can create. It used to be that only developers could create even a webpage, or even a little web app. You had to spend hours and hours and have expertise to be able to build that."It's important for business leaders to start to exploit these capabilities -- with guardrails. It may be tempting to employ generative AI for a range of tasks, but you may do so at your own peril. "You don't want your vibe coders to be developing a payroll system, or a demand deposit accounting system in a bank," Davenport cautioned. Instead, think about a red-yellow-green kind of structure, he suggested -- "Red, forget about it, doesn't make any sense. Yellow, can be possibly done by a citizen developer, but you need to have some pretty strict governance. Green fine, go ahead."Also: Stop using AI for these 9 work tasks - here's whyThere is also a need for individuals to take the lead in guiding AI adoption and development. "There are too many tech chiefs out there -- CIOs, CTOs, CAIOs, CDOs," said Davenport. In a survey he did, "a number of executives say there are too many, and we don't collaborate in the way we should. We'd be fine with the idea of a single tech information and data leader to manage all of this and report to the CEO."Needed is a forward-thinking individual who orchestrates all of these AI activities, who steers clear of the hype and inflated expectations of AI. "Managing up is very important in that role," said Davenport. "You need someone who can sell the case for IT-enabled, technology-enabled and AI-enabled business change to the leadership. You won't have this if you split this role up into six or seven parts."Transforming your business with AI means "a lot of concerted effort, change management, determination, and some visionary thinking by senior executives who are willing to see it through [to] eventually get something valuable out of it," said Davenport. "But it's not nearly as easy as people suggest it is." Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
AI helps strong dev teams and hurts weak ones, according to Google's 2025 DORA report
These consumer-facing industries are the fastest adopters of AI agents
AI will transform work more than replace jobs, study finds
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use