Editorial policies | Nature Portfolio
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
nature
nature portfolio
editorial policies
Editorial policies
Editorial policies
Authorship
Competing interests
Research Ethics
Reporting standards and availability of data, materials, code and protocols
Image integrity and standards
Plagiarism and duplicate publication
Corrections, Retractions and Matters Arising
Peer Review
Confidentiality
Acknowledgements
Preprints & Conference Proceedings
Press and embargo policies
Self archiving and license to publish
Appeals & Complaints
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Collections, Guest Edited Collections, and Special Issues
Communicate with Respect
Clinical Research
Editorial policies
The Nature Portfolio journals' editorial policies for primary scientific research can be found on the pages listed below. The Nature Portfolio includes all journals with Nature in their name, the Communications journals, the npj series, Scientific Reports and Scientific Data. A list of these journals and a description of the relationship between them can be found here. In August 2015, the Nature Portfolio journals became members of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE). We will be guided by COPE guidelines, however the Nature Portfolio journals will continue to make independent decisions based on our existing policies and principles.
For details on the editorial policies of other any non-Nature-Portfolio journal on nature.com, please visit their website.
Communicate with respect
Only through relationships based upon mutual respect can we build trust and deliver quality publishing products and services to the communities we serve.
Authorship
The Nature Portfolio journals' authorship policy (including Authorship: inclusion & ethics in global research).
Competing interests
Nature Portfolio journals' competing interests policies.
Ethics and Biosecurity
Nature Portfolio journals' editorial policies on publishing primary research reporting experiments on living organisms; and on biosecurity and bioethics.
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Nature Portfolio journals' policies on the use of artificial intelligence.
Reporting standards and availability of data, materials, code and protocols
Nature Portfolio journals' policy on availability of materials and data, and reporting requirements for life sciences research articles.
Image integrity and standards
Nature Portfolio journals' policies and guidelines on digital images and their manipulation.
Plagiarism and duplicate publication
The Nature Portfolio journals' policies on plagiarism and on providing due credit for published and unpublished data.
Corrections, Retractions and Matters Arising
Nature Portfolio journals' policy on corrections, retractions and other amendments to published material.
Peer Review
Nature Portfolio journals' advice for peer-reviewers, and policies relevant to the peer-review process.
Confidentiality
The Nature Portfolio journals' policies on confidentiality.
Acknowledgements
The Nature Portfolio journals’ acknowledgements policies.
Appeals & Complaints
The Nature Portfolio journals’ appeals and complaints policies.
Preprints & Conference Proceedings
Nature Portfolio journals' policy on preprints and conference proceedings.
Press and embargo policies
Nature Portfolio journals' policy on authors' communication with the media and at scientific meetings.
Self archiving and license to publish
Nature Portfolio license to publish policy, and conditions of re-use, for authors.
Collections and Special Issues
Nature Portfolio Journals' policy around Collections and Special Issues
Clinical Research
Nature Portfolio journals' policy on clinical research.
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature Portfolio
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited