The Uplift - Good news and stories that lift you up from CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
The Uplift
Stories that uplift and inspire
New episodes monthly on the CBS News app.
facebook
Full Episodes
The Newsletter
About Tony Dokoupil
Streaming Schedule
The Uplift: Christina's Corner
A video store owner in Idaho makes sure his most loyal customer, a woman with Down Syndrome, doesn't miss his store after he decided to close his shop. Plus, more heartwarming news.
Sep 20
21:17
The Uplift: Christina's Corner
The Uplift: A life well lived
David Begnaud remembers the late Judge Frank Caprio, who was known for his compassion in the courtroom. Plus, a California family gains a new surrogate grandmother. Find out how this blended family came to be.
Sep 6
22:14
The Uplift: Michael Jordan's Home Court
A group of lucky basketball players get a chance to play on Michael Jordan's home court inside his former house. A family decides to move to a remote island and Steve Hartman explains why. Plus, more heartwarming stories.
Aug 23
21:00
The Uplift: What's your sign?
Mark Strassmann explores the ever-growing popularity of astrology. David Begnaud catches up with a 12-year-old businessman who is using his company to give back to his church. Plus, more heartwarming news.
Aug 16
21:49
The Uplift: Small but mighty
Two young girls from a small, remote town in Scotland want others to see how small but mighty they are – and so is their school. Despite only having two students, the girls say the school is worth it and are fighting to keep it running. Plus, more good news stories.
Aug 9
21:31
Latest Stories
A custodian earns 4 degrees and a mailman adopts his best friend
Texas custodian Jessica Caldwell earned four degrees while working nights and raising four kids. A local mailman adopted a dog from his old route.
Jul 14
10 of Pope Francis' most heartwarming moments
From spinning with the Harlem Globetrotters to signing a Harley-Davidson, here are 10 memorable moments from Pope Francis' papacy.
Apr 21
Duo Team aiming to compete in 6th major marathon shares journey
Michael Sayih and Max Fink have finished the Chicago, New York, Boston, London and Berlin marathons together. They hope to complete the Tokyo Marathon this year.
Feb 25
The top 10 uplifting news stories of 2024
2024 was filled with breaking political news, international and domestic conflicts and world-changing events – but there was also heartwarming and good news. Here are the top 10 uplifting news stories of 2024.
Dec 30, 2024
Combating Parkinson's with rock climbing
There is currently no cure for Parkinson's Disease. But some with Parkinson's are finding that an unusual therapy – rock climbing – is helping them improve their balance, mobility, strength and cognition.
Nov 17, 2024
Woman reuniting photos lost in Hurricane Helene with families who own them
After Hurricane Helene, Taylor Schenker found herself with about 200 family photos that didn't belong to her. Now, she's hoping to reunite them with the people they belong to.
Nov 12, 2024
A real-life Rosie the Riveter, Jennifer McMullen, turns 100
The "Rosies" were women recruited by U.S. defense manufacturers during WWII to help build tanks, ships and planes.
Oct 25, 2024
This blind teen hopes his singing will bring joy to others
In April, Sawyer McCarthy sang the national anthem at a Columbia Fireflies game, reaching millions of viewers — not only in America but around the world.
Sep 18, 2024
Why a London man named Bushe turns his neighbors' hedges into art
When Tim Bushe looks at a hedge, he sees "the shape within" the shrubbery - and then he teases it out with his trimmer to honor his late wife.
Jul 16, 2024
After being paralyzed, this 20-year-old competed in a marathon
Mason Branstrator has always been an athlete, but three years ago, he was paralyzed in a skiing accident. It hasn't stopped him from playing sports.
Jul 2, 2024
Show More
Latest Videos
Sponsored
Latest Videos
After 15 years, this teacher and her star student still share a musical bond
Gia Martinez's first music class was 15 years ago, when she was a third grader at PS 48 in the Bronx. That happened to be the first year her teacher, Melissa Salguero, was teaching at the school. All these years later, the teacher still remembers her former start student — and they still share a musical bond.
Jul 26
12:57
Duo set to complete 6 major marathons
Michael Sayih and Max Fink have a special bond — they're regular racing partners who compete in countless 5K, Iron Man and marathon events all over the world. Michael has cerebral palsy, and started racing at 5 years old. Max has his own reason to race: to honor his mom, who died from breast cancer. He believes she brought him and Michael together. They are now attempting to complete all six Abbott World Marathon Majors. They only have one race left to reach their goal: Tokyo.
Feb 21
05:20
California couple's love surpassed all odds
For Elizabeth Wampler, it was not love or even like at first sight when she met her future husband. Now, 30 years later, she says her unfounded assumptions about his cerebral palsy were "wrong on all counts." In the week before Valentine's Day, CBS News is featuring stories about love that blossomed despite unimaginable odds. We call this series Love, Against All Odds.
Feb 8
03:45
Dogs stuck during fires saved by CBS News crew
It was a dramatic rescue. CBS News correspondent Jonathan Vigliotti was contacted by a stranger who told him his three rescue dogs were stuck inside his Pacific Palisades house — alone — as the Palisades Fire closed in. Jonathan and his producer, who were reporting nearby, did not hesitate to help — risking their lives to save all three dogs.
Jan 16
04:22
Reuniting people with photos lost in Helene
After Hurricane Helene tore through six states, Taylor Schenker went for a walk in hard-hit Asheville, North Carolina. As she dug through the debris and mud, she found family photos that got lost in the storm. Now, she's hoping to use her Photos from Helene Instagram page to help reunite the images with the families who own them.
Nov 12, 2024
04:42
Ceramic donuts go viral
Jeff Nebeker celebrates the success of his viral ceramic donuts, which sold out in just three minutes after being posted by gallery owner Michelle O'Brien. Over 9,000 people are on the email list for the next restock.
Oct 2, 2024
02:28
Shania Twain brings 81-year-old fan onstage
Shania Twain invited an 81-year-old superfan – who has been attending her shows for 25 years – onstage at her concert in England.
Jul 12, 2024
01:38
Athlete paralyzed skiing completes marathon
Mason Branstrator's life changed when he was paralyzed at 17. But that hasn't stopped him from playing sports and competing in a marathon. Mason, 20, just completed the wheelchair race at Grandma's Marathon in Duluth, Minnesota.
Jul 2, 2024
04:38
Tony Dokoupil
Tony Dokoupil
Tony Dokoupil is a co-host of "CBS Mornings." Since joining CBS News in 2016, Dokoupil has interviewed a variety of major artists, entertainers and newsmakers.
Read More
twitter
instagram
facebook
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue