iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared both flagship models, and here's the winner | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared both flagship models, and here's the winner
The iPhone Air and iPhone 17 Pro Max are two extremes that elevate Apple's handsets to a new level. So which one should you get?
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 4:00 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple's iPhone 17 lineup brings some of the biggest design changes the smartphone series has seen in years, and no two models better highlight this shift than the iPhone Air and iPhone 17 Pro Max. The iPhone Air is one of the thinnest smartphones Apple has ever made, made for those who value a sleek, portable design. Meanwhile, the iPhone 17 Pro Max doubles down on power with a cutting-edge camera system and a new vapor chamber cooling system.Also: iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro: I compared both models, and here's who should upgradeBoth devices are great, but they cater to different audiences. The question of the day is: Which one should you get as your new daily driver? It's hard to choose, but don't worry -- I'm here to help. Below, I've broken down how the iPhone Air compares to the iPhone 17 Pro Max.SpecificationsFeaturesiPhone 17 AiriPhone 17 Pro MaxPrices$999$1,199Display6.5-inch Super Retina XDR with ProMotion6.9-inch Super Retina XDR with ProMotionBattery27 hours of video playback  39 hours of video playback  FinishesSky Blue, Black, White, Light GoldCosmic Orange, Deep Blue, SilverProcessorA19 ProA19 ProFrameTitanium frameAluminum unibodyStorage256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBCamera18MP Center Stage selfie / 48MP Fusion Main18MP Center Stage / 48MP Fusion Main, 48MP Fusion Ultra Wide, 48MP Fusion Telephoto
You should buy the iPhone Air if...
Jason Hiner/ZDNET1. You want an ultrathin yet tough phoneAt just 5.6 mm thick, the iPhone Air is nearly a third thinner than the iPhone 16 Pro. Although it appears fragile, it's anything but, as Apple designed its mobile device to be just as durable as it is elegant. The smartphone's frame is made of grade 5 titanium, a material known for its high strength and "corrosion-resistant characteristics." Also: 3 reasons why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro and buying this model insteadCeramic Shield protects the back of the iPhone Air, allowing it to better resist damage. On the front, Apple chose to equip the screen with Ceramic Shield 2. Thanks to this material, Apple says the display has "3x better scratch resistance" than previous models and "improved anti-reflection" properties.
2. You don't need every bell and whistleAs I mentioned in my iPhone 17 series comparison piece, the iPhone Air isn't as feature-rich as the higher-end models. This may be a controversial opinion, but I think the device's lack of bells and whistles will benefit users as they'll receive a more streamlined experience. For instance, it only has a single 48MP Fusion lens as its rear camera system. According to Apple, it enables the equivalent of four lenses with users able to shoot photographs in both 28mm and 35mm focal lengths. You won't have to fiddle around with the settings or learn what the cameras do. It's all condensed.Also: iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared both thin phones, and there's a clear winnerAnother change relates to cellular connectivity. The iPhone Air relies exclusively on eSIM technology. Carriers continue to increase support for eSIM at a consistent rate, so this isn't too big a detriment, but this does mean that you won't be able to use your SIM card. Apple has also said that the adoption of an "eSIM-only design" allowed the company to save space, helping the iPhone Air achieve that thin form factor.
Buy the iPhone Air (pre-order on 9/12) View now at Apple
You should buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max if...
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
1. You want the most powerful iPhoneThe iPhone 17 Pro Max shares a surprising number of similarities with the iPhone Air. Both devices run on a three-chip setup, which consists of the A19 Pro processor, N1 networking chip, and C1X modem. Together, this trio allows the smartphones to deliver powerful performance, support Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 6, and offer faster, more energy-efficient cellular connections.Also: T-Mobile will give you a free iPhone 17 Pro - here's how to get yoursWhere the Pro Max differentiates itself is in size and stamina. Its massive 6.9-inch Super Retina XDR display hits 3,000 nits of brightness, ensuring visibility under direct sunlight. Support for ProMotion lets it run at a refresh rate of 120Hz for smooth visuals. The glass is even protected by Ceramic Shield 2. Paired with a battery reportedly capable of lasting up to 39 hours of video playback, it is the iPhone built for users who want the best of the best.
2. You want the best camera systemThe similarities between the two phones don't stop at the chipset or displays because they also have similar camera systems. For example, both models have the new 18MP Center Stage selfie lens. Not only does it provide higher-quality images, but it also uses a new type of sensor that lets owners capture photos in both portrait and landscape orientations without needing to rotate their phone.Also: Every iPhone that can be updated to iOS 26 (and when you can install it)The iPhone 17 Pro Max differentiates itself again by providing professional-grade video. The flagship model now supports ProRes RAW, a video codec that better preserves data for high-quality footage, the Log 2 format for wider color gamuts, and genlock. Genlock is software that synchronizes "video across multiple cameras." For content creators, tools like these allow the iPhone 17 Pro Max to double as a capable filmmaking camera.
Buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max (pre-order on 9/12) View now at Apple
Alternatives to consider
ZDNET RECOMMENDS iPhone 17 The base iPhone 17 keeps the traditional iPhone design while receiving upgrades in select areas, such as a touchscreen that supports ProMotion.
View at Apple
ZDNET RECOMMENDS iPhone 16 Pro Last year's iPhone 16 Pro remains a top pick thanks to its top-performing A18 chip and support for Apple Intelligence.
View at Best Buy Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: I compared both models, and there's a big difference
I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's the best buy for you
iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro: I compared both models, and here's why it's worth upgrading
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use