Researchers 3D print lightweight ceramic fuel cell — suggests alternative power source for the aerospace industry | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
3D Printing
Halot X-1 review: A solid step forward for serious hobbyists
3D Printing
Best Filaments for 3D Printing 2025
3D Printing
Scientists 3D print titanium fuel tank for space travel
Superconductors
New 3D printing process could improve superconductors
3D Printing
3D printing and AI used to slash nuclear reactor component construction time ‘from weeks to days’
3D Printing
MIT team creates chip-based 3D printer the size of a coin, cures resin using only light
3D Printing
New 3D printing tech fuses hard and soft structures in a single print — novel resin can create both with different light sources
3D Printing
China state-backed firm is first to 3D print a micro turbojet engine, successfully tested in-flight
3D Printing
Chinese scientists tout infinitely recyclable 3D printer resin
3D Printing
Firm pioneers 3D printing copper coolers directly onto processors using OLED manufacturing techniques with 'pixel perfect accuracy'
3D Printing
3D printing in space passes industry testing milestone for fabrication of spacecraft and associated equipment
3D Printing
Hong Kong scientists 3D printing organs for transplant patients
3D Printing
Scientists 3D print tumors for cancer research
3D Printing
Portable 3D-printed device can produce enough drinking water from thin air for a family of four every day
3D Printing
3D-printed PCB made with liquid metal and PVA is fully recyclable, allows immediate reuse
3D Printing
Researchers 3D print lightweight ceramic fuel cell — suggests alternative power source for the aerospace industry
News
By
Ash Hill
published
19 September 2025
This 3D printed fuel cell ditches metal for ceramic construction.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Getty / Daniel Garrido)
The world of fuel cells just got a jolt thanks to researchers from the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). The team has been hard at work developing a new technology that could completely change the way we approach fuel cell manufacturing. The new process involves 3D printing and results in what the team refers to as the "Monolithic Gyroidal Solid Oxide Cell" (or just "The Monolith" for short). This work was reported by Interesting Engineering, along with a journal published on the DTU website.The team implemented a custom design inspired by the natural construction of coral. This shape optimizes surface area while the material composition allows for a much lighter-weight end product. Most fuel cells are comprised of metal, which contributes greatly to their weight. This fuel cell is apparently completely ceramic.The intricate design is known as a gyroid and is a type of triply periodic minimal surface (shortened to TPMS). These surfaces are intended to provide as much surface area as possible. It's beneficial, particularly in this case, as the surface provides more optimal heat dispersion. According to the development team, the cell is capable of producing more than a watt of power for each gram of its own weight.
You may like
Scientists 3D print titanium fuel tank for space travel
New 3D printing process could improve superconductors
3D printing and AI used to slash nuclear reactor component construction time ‘from weeks to days’
The material also has a surprisingly noteworthy amount of durability. When testing the fuel cell's ability to withstand temperature fluctuations, it managed to handle temperatures as high as 212° F (100° C). It also maintained its structural integrity when alternating between both power-storing and generating modes.The fuel cell also features something called "Electrolysis Mode" which increases the hydrogen production rate almost tenfold compared to standard fuel cells. The 3D printing aspect of the design also helps make the manufacturing process easier than regular fuel cells.If you want to get into the world of 3D printing but aren't sure where to start, check out our list of best 3D printers to see what we recommend and why. You probably won't start off 3D printing fuel cells, but it's a great first step.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See more 3D Printing News
See all comments (0)
Ash HillContributing WriterAsh Hill is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware with a wealth of experience in the hobby electronics, 3D printing and PCs. She manages the Pi projects of the month and much of our daily Raspberry Pi reporting while also finding the best coupons and deals on all tech.
Read more
Scientists 3D print titanium fuel tank for space travel
New 3D printing process could improve superconductors
3D printing and AI used to slash nuclear reactor component construction time ‘from weeks to days’
MIT team creates chip-based 3D printer the size of a coin, cures resin using only light
New 3D printing tech fuses hard and soft structures in a single print — novel resin can create both with different light sources
China state-backed firm is first to 3D print a micro turbojet engine, successfully tested in-flight
Latest in 3D Printing
Bambu Lab's X1C color 3D printer is 33% off in combo deal
Prusa’s mobile slicer now works with competitors' 3D printers
Borderlands 4 props come to 3D printing fans
Researchers embed fingerprints into 3D printed parts
Researchers develop modified glue gun that can print bone
Creality Hi Combo review: Catching up with color
Latest in News
China's latest GPU arrives with claims of CUDA compatibility and RT support
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.