This 9-inch tablet singlehandedly changed my mind about gaming on Android | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
This 9-inch tablet singlehandedly changed my mind about gaming on Android
I went in doubtful, but RedMagic's Astra gaming tablet completely exceeded my expectations - it delivers top-tier gaming performance that rivals far more expensive devices.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 12:45 a.m. PT
RedMagic Astra
ZDNET's key takeaways The RedMagic Astra gaming tablet is available on Amazon starting at $700.The tablet offers unmatched performance for an Android tablet.When the fan is in use on the Astra, the battery does drain a bit faster, and the price is up there for a tablet. View now at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.As far as gaming is concerned, I'm not ashamed to say that I've done it all: consoles, PCs, handhelds, phones, and now, tablets. For the most part, I've found Android devices to offer less than stellar results. Tablets are often too slow or their displays aren't up to the task, and phones are simply too small. That's a shame, because tablets and phones are the most portable. Also: Why I recommend this Lenovo tablet over competing models that cost twice the priceRecently, however, I was sent the RedMagic Astra Gaming Tablet, and I do believe it's changed my opinion on gaming with Android. What about this tablet has flipped the switch?
ZDNET RECOMMENDS The RedMagic Astra Gaming Tablet This nine-inch Android tablet is hard to beat for gaming performance.
details
View at Amazon My experienceWith every Android device, the onboarding is fairly simple, so I was able to get to the gaming fairly quickly. Even before that, my first impression was that this tablet seemed faster than any Android tablet I've ever used. On top of that, the display was gorgeous. The animations are as buttery smooth as I've ever seen on an Android tablet. By a long shot.Also: I use this budget Android tablet more than my iPad Pro - and why you probably would, tooAfter I played around with various actions to keep testing the animations and app opening speeds (which were blazing fast), I decided to dive into what this tablet was built for: gaming. I downloaded "Diablo: Immortal" because I've experienced that on lesser tablets and witnessed, first hand, what underpowered hardware can do to the game. The first thing that struck me was how fast the game installed, and then how fast the data download was. I've installed this game on several Android devices, and the data download was always slow.Within two minutes, I was playing the game and, it was impressive. The RedMagic Astra plays every bit as well as a console system. The graphics are smooth, the sound is surprisingly good, and the overall experience is phenomenal. And that was without flipping the performance tuning switch. The Astra has a small red switch you can toggle to enable a special mode. When I switched it on, a new UI opened (called Energy Cube) with the "Diablo: Immortal' launcher ready to go. I'd already played the game for a while outside of this special mode, so I decided to see if there was any improvement to gameplay with it on.
The RedMagic Energy Cube is a space for you to play games with better tuned performance. Jack Wallen/ZDNETEnergy Cube features behavioral learning as well as an auto fan option (to keep the tablet cooler during longer sessions), as well as on-demand recording. You can also tune the performance to meet your needs (or the needs of a particular game).Once I launched Diablo: Immortal from the Energy Cube, there was a slight improvement in performance. Remember, however, that the game already played incredibly well outside of Energy Cube, so even a slight bump in performance was impressive.Also: Why I prefer this Lenovo tablet over the iPad for multimedia consumptionThe big thing I noticed, from playing the game within Energy Cube, is that the device didn't get nearly as warm (because of the fan activation). At the same time, the battery did drain a bit faster. The tablet's fan is a 20,000 RPM active cooling fan, which is combined with a 13-layer IEX cooling system. Needless to say, this tablet does not get hot, so I wonder if the hardware is a bit overkill, here. Even with a faster power drain, however, it still holds its own. The 8,200 mAh battery supplies hours of gameplay on a full charge.What about everyday use?This tablet absolutely excels at gaming (far beyond any tablet I've tested). But outside of that use case, I was just as pleasantly surprised. Also: This ultra-tough Android tablet can handle drop, bumps, and long hours on the jobFrist off, the Astra is on the smaller side (nine inches), which is great for gaming. I've tried to game with a larger tablet, only to find my fingers and wrists grew tired after a longer session. For everyday use, the nine-inch screen is a bit small, but not too small to render it a burden for web browsing, email, and the usual tasks I do on a tablet. In fact, after a while, I got used to the smaller display and found I preferred it to the larger tablets I have. ZDNET's buying adviceI have no trouble saying that this is the most satisfying Android tablet experience I've had to date.
The RedMagic Astra Gaming tablet is offered in three different configurations, starting at $700. That extra 4GB of RAM and 256 GB of added storage are well worth the price bump, and part of what contributed to my tablet's fantastic performance. It's not the cheapest tablet on the market, but its performance justifies the cost. If you're looking for an Android tablet for gaming, this is definitely the one to beat (and I don't see any Android tablet beating it any time soon). As well, if you want a high-end tablet for everyday usage (and you don't mind the smaller screen), this is still a fabulous option.Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
The specsCPU - Snapdragon 8 Elite.Display - 9.06-inch 2.4K OLED.Cooling - 13-layer ICE-X cooling system.RAM/Storage - Up to 24GB RAM and 1TB of storage (a version that is only available on the RedMagic site)Battery - 8,200 mAh large battery with fast charging support.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
Samsung's new flagship Galaxy tablets are the iPad Pro for Android fans - but something's missing
I tested a 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's who should buy it (and who shouldn't)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use