Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro [Expert Review] Updated 2025
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
We Tested 10 Air Fryer Toaster Ovens—These 6 Are the Best
38 Healthy Air-Fryer Recipes You Need to Try
Bakeable: Your Guide to Everything Baking
Le Creuset Dutch Oven Review: A Splurge That's Worth Every Penny
Kitchenaid Toaster Oven Air Fryer Review: The Best Overall Option for Countertop Cooking
Our Favorite Air Fryer Toaster Oven Now Comes in a Smaller Size (And It's Cheaper, Too!)
Our Place Wonder Oven: The Prettiest Air Fryer Toaster Oven We've Tested Just Got a Major Upgrade
Our Pros Found the Best Countertop Convection Ovens
Ninja Pizza Oven Review: This Electric Powerhouse Cooks Perfect Pies (And So Much More)
The Smart and Sleek Breville Toaster That Stole Our Editor's Heart
Cuisinart Pizza Oven Review: This 3-in-1 Appliance Really Does Do It All
16 Best Air-Fryer Accessories
The Best Air Fryers of 2024, Tested by the Taste of Home Kitchen
Breville Food Processor Review: This Small Appliance Is Built to Last
The KitchenAid Toaster is the Perfect All-Purpose Appliance
Kalorik Air Fryer Oven Review: We Love This Appliance’s Mix of Handy Accessories
Cosori Air Fryer Toaster Oven Review: This Sleek Appliance Blends Price With Performance
HexClad Dutch Oven Review: This Workhorse Replaces Every Other Pan in My Kitchen
10 Things You Probably Didn't Know About Your Oven
TASTE OF HOME
Home
Stuff We Love
Expert Product Reviews & Buying Guides
Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro Review: Why I Ditched My Oven for This All-In-One Appliance
TASTE OF HOME
By
Nicole Doster
Tested by Annamarie Higley, Sheri Kaz and Dylan Fischer
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 11, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
The Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro is an all-in-one countertop appliance that will crisp foods to perfection.
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
When I first started editing air fryer content in 2017, I will admit I was a bit of a skeptic. What could an air fryer do that my normal oven couldn’t? But after hearing rave reviews from our Test Kitchen, community cooks and practically everyone else under the sun, I gave the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro a try. And truth be told, after exploring all this appliance has to offer, I’ve almost entirely given up my oven.
Yes, you read that correctly. This all-in-one countertop cooker is not only useful—it’s essential in my kitchen and has turned this air fryer skeptic into a true believer.
TASTE OF HOME
We Tried It
Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro
This all-in-one smart oven is a kitchen workhorse with 13 settings ranging from roast to air fry to dehydrate and more.
Shop on WalmartShop on BrevilleShop on Williams Sonoma$399.95 at Sur La Table
What is the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro?
Nicole Doster For Taste of Home
Breville’s Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro is not just an air fryer—it’s an all-in-one countertop appliance. The Pro model I tested comes with two wire racks, a 13-by-9 enamel pan, a pizza pan and a mesh basket for dehydrating and air-frying. It boasts 13 different cooking methods:
Air-fry
Bake
Roast
Pizza
Proof
Reheat
Cookies
Slow cook
Dehydrate
Bagel
Toast
Over the past few years of using the oven, I’ve cooked everything from biscuits to bacon to bagels—and even a whole roast chicken. Its versatility is second to none.
What makes the Breville different from most other air fryers out on the market is its size. It’s a little larger than a microwave, and unlike most egg-shaped air fryers, the Breville Smart Oven uses a flat mesh basket that slides into a rack to air-fry food. This allows you to fit more food across a larger surface area compared to the typical air fryer. And since the oven door is glass, you can check in on food as it cooks. Buh-bye, overcooked air-fryer French fries!
Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro Product Features
TASTE OF HOME
As mentioned, the oven’s size is one of its defining features. As someone whose counter space is a scarce commodity, there are pros and cons to an oven of this size (14 x 22 x 12 inches, to be exact). While it takes up a decent amount of space, the oven has a spacious interior that accommodates a whole slew of dishes that the typical air fryer can’t. It’s great for making large sides and even main courses ranging from casseroles to whole chickens. I was surprised that I could fit an entire 4-quart Dutch oven inside!
And while the oven comes with preset modes, you’re not limited to them. When baking, for example, you can select the precise time and temperature of your choice. One of the genius features Breville built into the oven is the ability to automatically convert the temperature from regular baking to convection and to super convection. So long, conversion guides!
There are a few more subtle features that reflect Breville’s attention to detail in its product design. With the press of a button, you can turn on “rotate remind” which alerts you at the halfway mark to turn your dish for even cooking.  There’s also a light that makes it easy to peek in, magnets built into the door that help pull out the rack and even a specially designed loop on the appliance cord that makes it easier to insert and remove the plug. These small upgrades and air fryer accessories add up and make the Breville Smart Oven feel like a luxury in the kitchen.
How does it work?
ⓘ
With the twist of a dial, you can select between the 13 cooking methods that the Breville Smart Oven has to offer. Once a method is selected, a preset will appear with the option to change the time and/or temperature. For instance, if you select Toast, the oven will give you an option to select the level of darkness (1-7) and number of slices (1-9). For the Cookies setting, the oven defaults to 325 degrees on convection for 11 minutes.
To cook, you simply place the rack (or sheet pan or air-fryer basket) to its designated height. Breville outlines the proper spot to place each rack on the outside of the door: broil on the top rack, pizza on the lowest rack and so on. (However, while testing, I’ve found these labels can be somewhat tricky to read.)
Once the oven is fired up, Breville uses what it refers to as “Element IQ technology” to adjust the power of its heating elements to cook food to perfection. Like other air fryers and convection ovens, a built-in fan circulates hot air throughout the oven, distributing the steady heat and consistent airflow that’s essential to crisp food to perfection.
How We Tested It
TASTE OF HOME
To test the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro, I first measured the time it took to preheat the Smart Oven to 400 degrees and compared it to my standard oven. The results were incredible:
Breville Smart Oven preheat time: 5 minutes 10 seconds
Standard oven preheat time: 13 minutes 11 seconds
This means the Breville Smart Oven is able to preheat and cook a dish in the time that it took to heat my old oven. As someone who is very impatient when it comes to cooking, this was huge.
Nicole Doster for Taste of Home
Next, to test Breville’s powerful convection heat, I baked sliced potatoes at 400 degrees for 15 minutes on the regular bake, convection and super convection settings and compared them to my standard (non-convection) oven.
Standard oven: The potatoes were cooked and only slightly golden on the outside. They could likely use 10 to 15 more minutes until browned and crispy.
Breville standard: The potatoes were slightly darker than my standard oven’s results, but not by much.
Breville convection: The potatoes were beginning to get deeply golden with some dark brown bits.
Breville super convection: At the 15-minute mark, the potatoes were a deep brown and perfectly roasted, with some smaller slices beginning to over-brown.
What this leads me to believe is that the Smart Oven’s convection and super convection modes are a great shortcut for speedy roasting and air-frying, shaving minutes off the standard cooking time for dinners and sides.
What’s more, I can confirm that the appliance can cook almost anything you throw its way. This past holiday season, I relied on it for Christmas cookies, where its quick preheat time was invaluable. I’ve also baked fruit cobbler using my largest 12-inch cast iron skillet, brownies in a 9-by-9 baking dish and almost too many cakes to count. If you constantly find yourself needing more space to cook dessert, the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro is a great complement to your baking arsenal.
Testing Team Evaluation
Our Product Testing Team tested the Breville air fryer toaster oven alongside others for our piece on the best air fryer toaster ovens. We performed roughly 10 tests on each and spent a collective 80 hours on this test, including researching, sourcing, intaking and testing the products. After all that testing, the Breville oven earned a spot as the best large-capacity oven.
"This is perfect for someone with a kitchenette in their home or a family who wants a second oven because, for all intents and purposes, it's just that. It fits casseroles, stews, whole roasts—so impressive for a portable appliance that just plugs into your wall!"annamarie higleyProduct Testing Manager
Intuitiveness
Dylan Fischer for Taste of Home
The door is glass and has indicators for what to cook on each shelf. There’s also a nice big LCD screen to navigate. However, we had some issues with the preheat function kicking in mid-cook when we opened the door to check on our food. There’s a temperature sensor inside, so if the door is left open a little too long when you’re checking the food, you’ll have to sit through another quite lengthy preheat cycle.
French Fries
In the French fries test, the unit fared better than most. Though the fries came out a bit underdone, they were all very consistently golden brown. Plan on putting a few extra minutes on the timer and spraying your fries with oil first for better results.
Cake Baking
In terms of baking a cake, the Breville boasted the best rise, caramelization and evenness of all the cakes we made. That said, the preheat function kicks back in after opening the door for as little as 10 to 15 seconds, and it takes a while to get back up to temperature. Be careful when you open that door mid-cook!
Whole Chicken
Dylan Fischer for Taste of Home
When it came time to cook the chicken, we placed a baking rack on the very lowest rung and put an aluminum baking sheet on top to catch the drippings. We heated the oven to 375 degrees and set the timer to 90 minutes. It took a few minutes to preheat, so meanwhile, we loaded the chicken onto a second baking rack to place directly above the aluminum pan on the rung that was labeled “roast.” We rotated the rack halfway through to promote even browning.
Unsurprisingly, because this thing is supposed to fit a whole turkey, the chicken fit with plenty of room on either side and a couple of inches of headroom. Ellie Crowley, Associate Culinary Producer, who provided professional expertise throughout these tests, was most impressed by the oven’s results. She liked the evenness of the golden brown color and the sound that the skin made when tapped, indicating crispiness. This chicken temped right at 165 degrees after 90 minutes of cooking. It was the juiciest of all the chickens we cooked, which is saying something because they were all super moist.
Long Term Tests
Nicole Doster For Taste of Home
I have had this oven since May 2022 and use it nearly every single day—often multiple times a day. I am not kidding, apart from Christmas baking (which requires an abnormal amount of oven space), this air fryer has replaced my oven in every way.
The only major issue that I’ve noticed is that the pizza pan has scratched and chipped significantly. I haven’t noticed any issues with the other accessories (air-fry basket, baking sheet, etc.). We do use the pizza pan quite frequently and will probably buy a replacement (like the HexClad pizza steel) soon.
I still enjoy using its convection/super convection settings to cook food quickly. And the fact that it can pre-heat in a fraction of the time that my oven would have taken is a game changer for when I decide to start dinner late or when I’m already hungry. It’s also easy to clean—much easier to clean than an oven because it sits on the countertop. No bending over or getting on your hands and knees! You just need to pull out the crumb tray and wipe the window. We also appreciate that the big front window allows us to easily monitor food for doneness. This has saved us from burnt dinner multiple times!
Pros
Versatility
Smart and powerful cooking technology
Large capacity
Air-fryer settings
Easy to clean
Holds up year after year
Great for small families
Cons
Pricey
Takes up countertop space
Has a learning curve
What Other Shoppers Had To Say
Annamarie Higley for Taste of Home
Foodies and home cooks alike have shared rave reviews about the smart oven.
Amazon reviewer Orchards Charcuterie shared, “From the moment I started using it, I was blown away by its amazing features. The LCD display is not only sleek and stylish, but it also makes it incredibly easy to navigate through the different cooking functions. And speaking of cooking functions, this oven has it all. With 13 options to choose from, I can cook anything from crispy fries to mouthwatering roasts.”
After purchasing the appliance for their kitchen, reviewer Mona Segal states, “It’s the best appliance decision I have made in years. Breville is a reliable and excellent product line—I own other appliances made by them. This oven, however, has completely transformed my overheated kitchen. Aside from the air-frying capacity, it has absolutely every oven function imaginable, thus allowing me to cook without having to fire up my large oven, which is a true gift in this hot summer.”
Five-star reviewer Cool1234 says, “It fits wonderfully on my countertop and looks beautiful. It’s very well made and it is not loud and all, even when cooking with convection mode and (super convection mode).”
Breville vs. Ninja vs. Cosori vs. Chefman
So how does the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro stack up against other popular air fryer ovens on the market?
Breville vs. Ninja Foodi Smart XL Air Oven: The Ninja Foodi is similar to the Breville in many ways. It has intuitive controls and evenly browns food on its Bake and Air-Fry functions. The Ninja is more budget-friendly, while Breville tends to be more of a splurge. However, the Breville offers more settings than the Ninja, including low-temp presets like Proof and Slow Cook.
Breville vs. Chefman TurboFry Air Fryer XL: Both appliances are top-notch air fryers with a large cooking capacity. The Chefman can hold a whopping 8 quarts in its air-fryer basket. However, the Chefman Air Fryer is a traditional air fryer with one primary cooking mode while the Breville Smart Oven is multifunctional and similar in size and shape to a convection toaster oven.
Final Verdict
If you’re looking for an appliance that offers the same benefits as an air fryer, toaster, oven and dehydrator in one, the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro is the way to go. While on the pricier end, the Breville is packed with features and special touches that make cooking your favorite mains and side dishes a breeze. Its super powerful heating elements cook food more quickly and thoroughly than traditional appliances—great for those (like me) who are always antsy to get food on the table.
Breville’s Latest Launch
This Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro now comes in a smaller size. Meet the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Compact. It has all the functionality of the Pro but in a compact design that’s perfect for smaller kitchens. For reference, the original oven measures in at 21.4 x 17.3 x 12.7 inches, while the newer, smaller version is much more petite at 15.7 x 16.9 x 10 inches and has a 0.5 cubic foot capacity. It retails for around $250. That’s about $150 less than it’s larger cousin, which means you’ll be saving space and money. You can read more about the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Compact here.
Where To Buy the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro
TASTE OF HOME
We Tried It
Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro
Ready to take the leap? The Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro will soon be your go-to appliance for air-frying, baking, dehydrating and more.
Shop on WalmartShop on BrevilleShop on Williams Sonoma$399.95 at Sur La Table
The Breville  Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro is available on Walmart, Breville, Williams-Sonoma and Sur La Table. While pricey at $400, keep an eye out for sale markdowns during Black Friday and Amazon Prime Day events for the best price.
FAQ
Nicole Doster For Taste of Home
How do you air-fry with a Breville Smart Oven?
A Breville Smart Oven comes with an air-fryer function. Simply place the food inside and hit the Air-Fry function. My favorite things to cook in the air fryer are crispy carrots, zucchini chips and frozen French fries.
How loud is the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer?
I will admit that when I initially set up the smart oven, the buzzer was loud. My colleagues have told me this is a common gripe for many air fryer owners. Luckily, you can adjust the volume on the Breville to get rid of blaring alarms. Simply hold the temperature conversion button for three seconds to turn the volume up, down or off completely. Press any button to lock the setting.
Some users have found that older models from Breville were noisy while cooking—especially on the air-fry or convection settings. So far I have found no issues with the sound of the oven fan.
What is the difference between the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer and the Pro?
Breville has released several versions of their countertop ovens with capabilities ranging from a simple toaster oven to the multifunctional smart oven air fryer combos of today. The primary difference between the Smart Oven Air Fryer and the Pro version is the size. The standard model measures 0.8 cubic feet while the Pro model is 1 cubic foot. Additionally, the Pro has two new settings: Dehydrate and Proof.
Can you put aluminum foil in a Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer?
Yes, you can use aluminum foil in a Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer Pro. However, like most ovens, you should be cautious to ensure the foil does not touch the heating elements. When air-frying wet foods, I actually prefer to line a baking sheet with foil to catch drippings instead of letting the mess fall to the drip tray. This makes for easy cleanup.
Is the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer a microwave as well?
While the Breville Smart Oven Air Fryer offers 13 different functions, it does not come with a microwave function. However, there are several functions that perform similarly to a microwave, including the warm, bake and slow cook settings.
Why You Should Trust Us
Nicole Doster has nearly 10 years of publishing experience, writing, editing and directing strategy for brands including Taste of Home, Reader’s Digest, Family Handyman, The Healthy, Birds and Blooms and more. She also launched Taste of Home‘s food brand testing program in 2017, conducting thorough reviews for the whole spectrum of food categories. As TMB’s affiliate content director, she oversees strategy, operations and planning for all product testing and shopping content to bring readers recommendations and inspiration you can trust.
Along with Nicole Doster’s hands-on testing, the Breville Smart Oven was also tested by three other Taste of Home product testers, Annamarie Higley, Sheri Kaz and Dylan Fischer.
Sean Tirman, Content Updates Editor at Taste of Home, updated and contributed research to this piece. Sean has written shopping guides since 2016 and is a former associate editor at Gear Patrol.
Author
Nicole Doster
With nearly a decade of experience creating content for various lifestyle publishers and eCommerce brands, Nicole combines her love of at-home cooking with her expertise in product reviews and digital content creation to lead the award-winning shopping editorial team across Taste of Home, Family Handyman and Reader's Digest. As Trusted Media Brand'...
Read More
Tester
Annamarie Higley
As Taste of Home's product testing manager, Annamarie leads the sourcing and testing of the products you see recommended on our websites. She's passionate about ensuring your money is spent on quality items that perform better than their competitors and will help you maintain a happy, efficient home.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box