Snag this 27-inch QHD Asus TUF gaming monitor for just $229 — the lowest price we've ever seen for it | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Monitors
Gaming Monitors
Snag this 27-inch QHD Asus TUF gaming monitor for just $229 — the lowest price we've ever seen for it
Deals
By
Ash Hill
published
21 September 2025
Add new features to your gaming setup, not debt.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Asus TUF)
When it comes to gaming monitors, size isn't everything. WhIle it can definitely be more immersive to have a large screen, sometimes it just isn't as practical as having one with a smaller footprint. In those cases, it helps to lean into other specs and in the case of today's deal—you get plenty to work with. The Asus TUF Gaming VG27AQM1A monitor usually goes for around $329 but today it's marked down to just $229.
Check out this deal on Amazon
This gaming monitor is built around a 27-inch IPS panel and is backed up with some quality specs like its sweet-spot QHD resolution. The monitor is AMD FreeSync Premium certified with the game-friendly features like Extreme Low Motion Blur Sync to create a more seamless, fluid experience while gaming.
Save 30% ($100)Asus TUF Gaming monitor VG27AQM1A: was $329 now $229 at AmazonAll-time low price This gaming monitor has a 27-inch IPS panel with a QHD resolution. It can reach a refresh rate of 260Hz and is AMD FreeSync Premium certified for its performance. This price is one of the best we've ever seen for it since it released.Read more▼View Deal
You get more than your average display with the Asus TUF Gaming VG27AQM1A monitor. It features a 27-inch IPS panel with a dense, QHD resolution that measures in at 2,560 x 1,440 pixels. The refresh rate can get pretty high, with 260 Hz being its max — this isn't the highest on the market, but it's still up there. It pairs well with a low response time of 1 ms.
This screen is AMD FreeSync Premium certified for its quality specs and performance. It also has additional features like Extreme Low Motion Blur Sync and is G-Sync compatible. Asus's display panel of choice covers 90% of the DCI-P3 color gamut. You get a handful of input options, as well, including two HDMI ports, one DisplayPort, a USB hub and a 3.5mm jack for audio devices.
If you still aren't sold, you should take a moment to explore our list of best gaming monitors. There we list out our favorites along with plenty of details about why we like them. This also gives you a chance to familiarize yourself with what specs are leading the market.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (0)
Ash HillContributing WriterAsh Hill is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware with a wealth of experience in the hobby electronics, 3D printing and PCs. She manages the Pi projects of the month and much of our daily Raspberry Pi reporting while also finding the best coupons and deals on all tech.
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.