Best Smart Plugs for 2025: Easy Upgrades for Home Electronics - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeSmart Home Smart Plugs
Best Smart Plugs for 2025: Easy Upgrades for Home Electronics
Installing smart plugs can help you make your home outlets smart and save energy. Our experts have tested the best ones.
Our Experts
Written by
David Anders
Article updated on September 1, 2025 at 9:00 AM PDT
David Anders Former Senior Writer David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products. Expertise Broadband providers | Home internet | Security cameras
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
Do you need to save by finding a smart plug for less than $10 or are you willing to pay a bit more for extra features?
Size
Is the smart plug compact enough to fit in your outlet?
Smart home support
Does the plug work with your preferred voice assistant?
Energy management
Does the plug let you measure electricity use over time?
App controls
Is the app intuitive and easy to use quickly?
Wattage
Is the plug rated for the wattage that your device uses?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you are just getting started in your smart home journey, there's one thing that's essential: the simplicity of a smart plug. You can plug it into a standard wall outlet and it can make any device smart, allowing you to set on/off schedules (think coffeemakers or floor lamps) and monitor energy use, among other handy tricks for appliances you already have around your home. Our Picks
Best overall smart plug Emporia Smart Plug
Jump to details
$12 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget smart plug TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini
Jump to details
$15 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart plug for Apple HomeKit and Matter Leviton D215P-2RW
Jump to details
$23 at The Home Depot
Jump to details
Best smart plug for easy setup GE Cync Smart Plug
Jump to details
$16 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best dual outlet smart plug HBN Smart Plug
Jump to details
$10 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Alexa smart plug Amazon Smart Plug
Jump to details
$25 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
SMART LIGHT BULB DEALS OF THE WEEK
Philips Hue 4-Piece Smart Light Starter Kit:  $99 (save $61)
TP-Link Kasa KL125P2 LED Smart Light Bulbs (2-Pack):  $19 (save $6)
Govee A19 Wi-Fi Smart Dimmable Color Bulbs (4-Pack):  $28 (save $12)
Philips Hue 60W A19 White and Color LED Smart Bulbs (3-Pack):  $90 (save $45)
Philips Hue 3-Piece Smart Light Starter Kit:  $110 (save $20) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Smart Plugs for 2025: Easy Upgrades for Home Electronics
What is the best smart plug overall?
Best smart plugs of 2025
Best overall smart plug
Best budget smart plug
Best smart plug for Apple HomeKit and Matter
Best smart plug for easy setup
Best dual outlet smart plug
Best Alexa smart plug
Best Smart Plugs Compared
Other smart plug models we tested
What does a smart plug work with?
Factors to consider when choosing a smart plug
How we test smart plugs
What we updated
We've tested dozens of models from top brands like GE, Leviton and TP-Link across all major platforms, including Alexa, Google and HomeKit. Here are the ones that impressed us most.What is the best smart plug overall?
Tyler/LacomaCNETCNET has tested countless smart plugs over the years and we brought in more than 10 new models to determine the best smart plugs currently on the market. The result is this guide to our top five smart plugs -- starting with the Emporia 15W smart plug, which topped our list thanks to its easy setup and excellent electricity management options.Read on to see why we chose it, and the other plugs that made our list. Read more: These Smart Plugs Are the Secret to a Seamless Smart HomeBest smart plugs of 2025
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best overall smart plug
Emporia Smart Plug
Pros
Excellent energy management
Affordable at less than $15
Very easy account setup
Compact enough for most outlets
Cons
No Apple support
Not everyone wants so many energy management options
Why I like it:The Emporia smart plug combines affordability with excellent app operation and energy management, making it one of the best smart plugs I've come across with easy, highly customizable control. The rounded design and on/off side switch always proved top-notch.From the home screen display, you can see connected devices and their on/off status along with how much energy they are using. Tapping the plug or power icons will take you to the on/off settings or you can tap on the device name to see a graph of your plug's (that is, whatever's plugged into it) energy use over time. In addition to the charts, you can also set the plug for automatic scheduling to save energy or create your own schedules on the fly. It's intuitive and easy to master.The only disappointment I had with Emporia's plug is that it's not compatible with Apple Home (hopefully HomeKit support is on the way) and works best if you use Emporia's own app for detailed management, although Google Home/Gemini and Alexa compatibility are included.Who is this for:Buyers who want a smart plug with easy setup and excellent electricity management. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who aren't interested in tracking energy, users who need an Apple-compliant plug.  ... Show more
Get it now
$12 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Google Home/Gemini, Amazon AlexaEnergy management
Yes, with automatic peak hour schedulingAmps
15
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best budget smart plug
TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini
Pros
Affordable at less than $15
Customized scheduling options
Very compact size
Cons
Lacking energy management options
Why I like it:I've tested the TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini before and it remains one of my favorite plugs, especially for those who want an affordable option. This smart device works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant via your Wi-Fi network and the Kasa app (Android and iOS) offers plenty of detailed options for customizing scheduling, away modes and timers. Alas, this Wi-Fi smart plug doesn't offer energy-consumption data, a USB port or HomeKit compatibility, which keeps it from the very top of my list even if other features are excellent.Who is this for:Users who want an extra-affordable, simple plug. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who need USB ports or energy monitoring.
... Show more
Get it now
$15 at Amazon
$15 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Google Home/Gemini, Amazon Alexa, IFTTTEnergy management
NoAmps
15
Learn more
TP-Link Kasa Smart Wi-Fi Plug Mini review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best smart plug for Apple HomeKit and Matter
Leviton D215P-2RW
Pros
Apple compatibility thanks to Matter, which is hard to find in smart plugs
Inituive app with home/away modes, vacation mode and more
Handy indicator light/button
Cons
Expensive compared to alternatives at more than $20
Why I like it:I liked the Leviton D215P-2RW smart plug right out of the box. For a smart plug, it has a sleek design. I'm particularly fond of the little corner window that acts as a button to manually turn the device on and off and as an indicator light -- features that most smart plugs keep separated. It's also slimmer than most smart plugs I've seen, which is nice if you're working with a limited space.Design aside, I found the Leviton smart plug easy to set up and the app is pleasantly simple. The home screen displays all connected plugs (or other Leviton smart devices) and their status, along with the ability to switch them on or off with a tap. Setting a schedule for the plug was also easy and intuitive.Another standout feature of the Leviton smart plug: Thanks to its Matter support, it plays nicely with all three of the major smart home ecosystems. I had no problem connecting the smart plug to my Google Home Mini but I did have to download the Leviton "skill" to connect to Alexa. It's an extra step but one that only took about 30 seconds. Leviton is also compatible with Apple HomeKit and Siri, which is somewhat rarer for a smart plug.Who is this for:Apple fans looking for a high-quality, Matter-compatible smart plug.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who don't need a lot of compatibility features.  ... Show more
Get it now
$23 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Google Home, Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit/SiriEnergy management
NoAmps
15
Add to compare
David Anders/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
David Anders/CNET
Best smart plug for easy setup
GE Cync Smart Plug
Pros
Excellent app controls for swift management
Quick voice assistant connections for Alexa and Google
A variety of Cync routines with other devices
Cons
Needs compatible smart home devices to really shine
More than $25 when not on sale
Why I like it:Speaking of apps, GE's Cync app is nothing short of delightful. The initial smart plug setup took me through a series of simple, step-by-step instructions complemented by soft, home-inspired imagery in the background. The setup also prompted me to connect to Alexa and Google devices, something I had to navigate to within the app or go to a hub to do with other smart plugs.Once your smart plug is set up, you can control on/off settings from the home screen or tap "Routines" to set a schedule. There are a number of other functions and settings you can play with, such as grouping devices together for simultaneous control or creating "scenes" with custom settings, like turning off a set of lights before starting a movie or changing the smart light bulbs to your team's color on game day. If it sounds complicated, you can get a user-friendly, eye-pleasing breakdown of how to use all the various Cync features under Settings > App Tutorials.I'm getting away from the smart plug a bit but that's because the GE Cync app is clearly intended to incorporate multiple devices and support total home automation. You can use the smart plug on its own but the app invites you to do much more.Who is this for:People who want an elegant, excellent app experience for their smart plug. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who aren't interested in smart home stuff like routines, grouping and device management.  ... Show more
Get it now
$16 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Google Home/Gemini, Amazon AlexaEnergy management
NoAmps
15
Add to compare
David Anders/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
David Anders/CNET
Best dual outlet smart plug
HBN Smart Plug
Pros
Two outlets with separate control functions
Convenient app design
Very affordable at less than $10
Cons
No Apple support for this model, either
Why I like it:You get two for the price of one here. The HBN smart plug is one of the few I've seen with two independently controlled outlets. Even with the extra outlet, the smart plug isn't that much wider than other single plugs and it's still compact enough to plug something else in above or below it.I'm sure there are quite a few uses for a dual smart plug but plugging my Christmas tree lights into one and a corner lamp into the other immediately comes to mind. Currently, I have a light fixture and a fan plugged in and the ability to independently control one or the other is pretty nifty. I also found the HBN to be user-friendly, and for alternatives its voice assistant is compatible with Alexa and Google. Each outlet is nameable, so you can turn off a single outlet by saying "Alexa, turn off Switch 2," or control both outlets at once by referring to the device name.You can also create separate schedules for each outlet. Here at home, I've set my fan to come on during these sweltering Southern summer days while the lamp is programmed to come on at night. Again, pretty nifty.Who is this for:Buyers who want two outlets on their plug.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who prefer a more compact plug and only want to use it with one device.
... Show more
Get it now
$10 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Google Home/Gemini, Amazon AlexaEnergy management
NoAmps
15
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best Alexa smart plug
Amazon Smart Plug
Pros
Native Alexa compatibility
Auto-reconnect to the Alexa app
Swift setup if you're comfortable with Alexa
Cons
More than $20 is quite expensive for a smart plug
Why I like it:Amazon's own entry into the smart plug market is, to no surprise, incredibly compatible with Alexa. If you already use the Alexa app, that makes this plug particularly easy to set up, with no need to create another account or learn any third-party app. In addition to all those Alexa voice commands (and any Alexa Plus improvements that may come in the future), Amazon designed the plug to automatically re-connect with Alexa if it suddenly goes offline, a boon during power outages.Who is this for:Alexa fans who want a painless setup process.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who prefer Google/Gemini and Apple support.  ... Show more
Get it now
$25 at Amazon
$25 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Amazon AlexaEnergy management
NoAmps
15
Add to compareBest Smart Plugs Compared
Emporia smart plugTP-Link Kasa smart Wi-Fi plug mini Leviton D215P-2RWGE Cync smart plugHBN smart plug Smart home support Google Home/Gemini, Amazon AlexaGoogle Home/Gemini, Amazon Alexa, IFTTTGoogle Home, Amazon Alexa, Apple HomeKit/SiriGoogle Home/Gemini, Amazon AlexaGoogle Home/Gemini, Amazon AlexaEnergy management Yes, with automatic peak hour schedulingNoNoNoNoAmps 1515151515
Other smart plug models we tested
It's the smallest plug in my smart home. John Carlsen/CNETThere are dozens of smart plugs out there from companies large and small and, while we haven't tested every single one, we've tried out many of the ones you'd come across online or at your local big box store. Here's a quick look at other notable options:ConnectSense Smart Outlet 2: This smart plug does it all -- energy monitoring, individually controlled outlets, a USB port and LED status lighting. The unattractive, oversized design is enough to keep us from recommending it. Everyone loves a smart outlet but no one likes an ugly one.Govee Smart Wi-Fi Plug: The round design is nice and blends in with my wall plate perfectly while leaving plenty of room for another plug. Nothing else really stands out about the plug, unfortunately, but if you want a simple, cheap (currently $10) plug that doesn't scream "I'm a smart plug," this is a good choice.Philips Hue Smart Plug: The Philips Hue app reminded me of GE's Cync app in that the setup was simple and there's the potential to connect multiple devices under whole-home automation. For a single smart plug, this one is fairly expensive at $35 (currently $28) and it doesn't sport any unique features to justify the cost. Wyze: We like the Wyze Smart Plug primarily for its low pricing. The Wyze does all the basic functions of a smart plug and will only set you back $20 for a two-pack. The bargain price is nice but if you only need one plug, there are cheaper options.Enbrighten Dual Smart Plug (Update: Out of Stock): As with the HBN smart plug, I appreciated the extra outlet. The Enbrighten version is significantly wider and doesn't allow for individual control of each outlet, at least not in any way that I could easily figure out. It's also priced a bit higher than the HBN dual outlet at $22.Vont Smart Plug (Update: Out of Stock): Your standard smart plug. Nothing special but nothing that would turn me away from using it, either. If you can catch it on sale, or perhaps in a value-priced two-pack, this smart plug can be a decent, budget-friendly addition to your smart home.WeMo (Update: Out of Stock): We previously featured this smart plug as "Best for HomeKit" in spite of other shortcomings like a less-than-impressive app. Yes, the smart plug works well with a HomeKit setup along with Alexa and Google but so does the more user-friendly Leviton plug.
What does a smart plug work with?
Linkind/CNETSmart plugs generally work with any device that can fit into a standard American outlet socket (or the standard socket in your region of choice). They work best with devices that have simple on/off states and can start running immediately when turned on. The classic example is a coffeemaker set to start brewing the moment its smart plug is activated but there are a lot of other possibilities -- grow lights, fountain pumps, energy-hogging displays, bedside lamps that can join your alarm in waking you up, and a whole lot more.Read more: Want to Buy a Smart Plug? Read This First Factors to consider when choosing a smart plug
Amazon/CNETPriceThe good news is that smart plugs are super affordable and their apps are free to use. However, if you’re on a strict budget it may be worthwhile to look for options that are less than $20. Most of our plug choices are about $15. We even have one or two less than $10, although you may lose some features at prices that low.Size and designSize is especially important for smart plugs because we only have so much room around our outlets. You may be plugging in other appliances to the spare socket or the outlet may not have much room for a plug to protrude. Compact is usually better as a result. You don’t want a plug that goes out much beyond the edges of the outlet, for example.Other important design features include a physical on/off button, which some users find very important, and indicator lights to see the status of the plug. Smart home support and MatterSmart home support can be very convenient for voice assistants and routines, but compatibility can vary. Apple compatibility is still relatively rare so if you prefer Apple make sure your plug works with HomeKit. Google and Alexa compatibility are more common but ultimately you’ll want home compatibility that your smart devices already have, or what you’re comfortable using.Energy managementMany smart plugs offer energy management and electricity tracking, which is excellent if you want to see what devices are power hungry and arrange schedules to save money. We prefer these energy management options but not everyone is interested in them and they can make apps a bit more confusing to use.
TP-Link/CNETApp controlsApp UI is important even for simple devices like smart plugs. We chose options that are easy to manage and quick to set up, especially with processes like scheduling on/off times. Apps shouldn’t be cluttered with unnecessary content or take a long time to find what you’re looking for.AmpsMost smart plugs are rated for 15A, suitable for most basic devices. But if your device uses more amps than that (like a small heater, for example) you need to find a smart plug that has a higher wattage rating to avoid problems.Scheduling and modesHigh-quality smart plugs should always have the option for scheduling times to turn on or off. More advanced models may offer home/away modes based on location tracking Outdoor ratingThis list focuses on indoor smart plugs but we have a guide for outdoor models, too. If you plan on using the smart plug outdoors, it absolutely needs weather resistance (usually with an IP rating) and a design that allows for outdoor functioning.
How we test smart plugs
Smart plugs can be really handy in many ways, but there are still limitations regarding what can be safely used with them. Chris Wedel/CNETTesting a smart plug is relatively straightforward, thanks to the simplicity of these smart home gadgets (which is also why they're such a great starting place). We test these plugs in our own homes, running through several phases. App setup and installationFirst we pay close attention to the setup process and how easy it is to get the smart plug up and running. We like to see apps that are easy to understand and preferably options that don't require an extra account to set up. This is also the period where we take a close look at the physical design of the plug, how compact it is and what features it has, such as LED indicators and physical switches.
Emporia has more comprehensive and user-friendly energy management options than most -- but you may need other Emporia devices to use them all.  Tyler Lacoma/CNETPower management and schedulingAs we hook up devices for testing, we start looking at scheduling features and how easy it is to turn devices on or off remotely. If plugs are compatible with another app like Alexa or Google Home, we connect them and test control features from there, too. We like to see scheduling options that are easy to set and adjust on the fly. Energy management and savingsMany smart plugs also include electricity tracking and energy management options. Here, we experiment with how easy it is to watch energy use over time (usually a few days connected to an appliance) and if the app offers features to cut down on electricity use, like automatically turning the device off at peak hours.
Emporia scheduling options for smart plug showing time of day. Tyler Lacoma/CNETSmart home connectionsIf the smart plugs can function in routines and work with other smart devices, we connect them and see how easy it is to get routines going and how responsive smart plugs are to changes. What we updated
The Eve Energy smart plug works with Matter right out of the box and hits stores March 28. EveSpring 2025: After excellent testing with Emporia's smart plug, I decided to move it to the top of the list for anyone interested in energy management. Also, I added the Amazon smart plug as an option for Alexa users who want particularly speedy setups.
Smart plug FAQs
Why use a smart plug?
Smart plugs are one of the cheapest and simplest ways to add smart technology to non-smart devices such as lamps, nightlights and fans. A smart plug will give you control over the flow of power to plugged-in devices via an app on your phone or using your voice when paired with a compatible home assistant like Alexa or HomeKit. For example, you could say, "Alexa, turn on the dining room lamp" from anywhere in the house. Smart plugs also enable you to create schedules to automatically turn the device on or off at specified times. Some plugs come with other features such as energy use monitoring but conveniently turning your devices "on" or "off" is the main purpose of a smart plug.
Which smart plug should I buy?
When choosing the best smart plug for your needs, start by identifying which voice assistant you'll be using, if any. Most plugs are compatible with Alexa and Google, but finding one that is compatible with HomeKit may be more of a challenge. Look for Matter compatibility, which indicates that a plug also functions with Apple Home and Siri.Next, compare the size and style of each smart plug. Most smart plugs are compact but some can be rather bulky and may block access to other outlets. Some are rectangular, others may have rounded edges or a circular shape, which tends to blend in better with the wall plate. Pick the one that best fits your home's style and space.Extra features like energy monitoring and USB charging can add even more control and convenience but consider how often you may use these added features before paying a higher price for a smart plug that does more than you need it to.
Do smart plugs save energy?
Smart plugs themselves do not lower energy consumption but the use of a smart plug is a great way to control and potentially lower your energy use. Setting a schedule for a light to turn off at a certain time, for example, will keep it from staying on continuously. Or you could set an away mode so certain devices always turn off when you aren't at home, saving money. Some smart plugs, such as the Emporia Smart Plug, feature energy-use monitoring along with automatic settings to turn devices on or off depending on your energy consumption. Again, the smart plug itself does not save energy but using a smart plug and taking advantage of its features can help keep your energy use in check.
What is the difference between a smart outlet and smart plug?
A smart outlet replaces your existing wall outlet and requires installation (often with wiring), while a smart plug simply plugs into your existing outlet with no installation needed. Smart outlets are permanent and flush with the wall, while smart plugs are portable and can be moved between outlets. Smart outlets typically offer a cleaner look, but smart plugs are more affordable and usually don't require electrical work.
Is there anything you should not plug into a smart plug?
You should avoid plugging high-powered appliances like heaters, air conditioners, dehumidifiers or anything that draws more than 1,800 watts into a smart plug, as these can overload the plug's circuitry. You should also avoid major appliances like refrigerators, washing machines and dryers, as they need consistent power and could be damaged by unexpected power cycling. Finally, avoid medical devices or anything else that requires constant, uninterrupted power.Also, keep in mind most indoor smart plugs are rated for 15 amps, suitable for the average American outlet. Some devices, like space heaters, may draw more amperage, which can be dangerous for the smart plug over time.
What's the difference between Thread, Zigbee, Z-Wave and Wi-Fi smart plugs?
Thread, Zigbee and Z-Wave are all special connections that smart plugs may use to communicate with certain hubs. They aren't usually necessary for a standalone smart plug. Wi-Fi, of course, allows you to connect the smart plug to your router and then operate it via your phone app, making it a required connection.
Can smart plugs be used outdoors?
No, not unless they are specifically rated for outdoor use. It could be dangerous to use indoor smart plugs outdoors if it leads to a short circuit. We have a list of outdoor smart plugs here.
What is a Matter-certified smart plug?
Matter is a smart home standard that, among other things, helps guarantee compatibility with voice assistants and apps like Alexa, Apple Home and Google Home. It's an especially good way to guarantee functionality with Apple and Siri, which is otherwise hard to find.
About the Author
David Anders Former Senior Writer David Anders Former Senior Writer
David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products.
Read full bio
Smart Home Guides
Smart Home
Best Smart Lights
Best LED Floodlight
Best Alexa Devices
Best Smart Garage Door Opener Controller
Generator vs. Battery
Best Indoor Smart Gardens
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Best Smart Home Devices
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Apple Homekit Devices
Best Google Assistant & Nest Device
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.