This Tiny Home Looks Like a Spaceship and Has a Sauna
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Real Estate
This isn't your basic tiny home. It looks like a spaceship and comes with a sauna. See inside.
By
Alcynna Lloyd
The Pebl Grand tiny cabin, designed by Hello Wood.
Courtesy of György Palkó
2025-09-24T09:31:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Hello Wood, a Hungarian-based architecture studio, designs prefab tiny homes.
The company has built a futuristic tiny cabin that blends into nature and resembles a spaceship.
The Pebl Grand is 200 square feet, starts at $86,247, and can fit a sauna.
Ever wanted to step onto a spaceship? Hello Wood's futuristic tiny cabin gets you close.The Hungary-based architecture studio has built the Pebl Grand, a 220-square-foot, prefabricated accessory dwelling unit (ADU) that looks more at home on FX's 'Alien-Earth' set than in someone's backyard.
Designed to feel both natural and otherworldly, the Pebl Grand blends organic materials like wood and stone with aluminum. Its asymmetrical, faceted shell gives it an asteroid-like look, and depending on its exterior cladding — either mirror, wood, or stone — it stands out or camouflages into its surroundings."When you see the market, everybody builds a box," András Huszár, lead architect of the Pebl Grand and CEO of Hello Wood, told Business Insider. "Hello Wood has a philosophy: what can we do for innovation, how can we make this structure special, or give a message?"Hello Wood's message is clear: tiny homes and cabins can be creative and smart — and still reasonably priced.
The Pebl Grand starts at €73,000 ($86,247), though customization, material choices, and upgrades can increase overall costs. The standard model includes a king-size bed, a kitchenette, a dining nook, and a bathroom with a shower and toilet. An upgraded version, which features an infrared sauna and a panoramic window, starts at €85,000 ($100,424).Take a look inside the Pebl Grand.
The Pebl Grand is an upgraded version of a Hello Wood classic.
The tiny cabin blends into its natural surroundings.
Courtesy of György Palkó
The Pebl Grand can be traced back to Hello Wood's Pebl One, a 92.57-square-foot tiny cabin originally designed as a detached studio.
The Pebl Grand isn't just 107 square feet larger — it is also more versatile.
The walls of the tiny cabin are asymmetrical.
Courtesy of György Palkó
For homeowners, the tiny cabin is a natural fit as a home office, guest room, or meditation studio.However, hospitality or entertainment businesses might want to use it as a pop-up suite, VIP lounge, or even a green room during festivals.In May, a New York City venue purchased five Pebl Grand units for its rooftop terrace, where the units will serve as rest spaces for performing artists, Hello Wood said.Huszár called it "a dream come true."
A Pebl Grand can be built and delivered in a few months.
The roof of the Pebl Grand.
Courtesy of György Palkó
After a client pays a deposit, Hello Wood begins production. The deposit amount is determined on a project-by-project basis.From deposit to installation, the project typically takes two to three months — although that time depends on the tiny home's destination as well, the company said.Hello Wood typically manages permits, site preparation, and installation — though obtaining permits is ultimately the client's responsibility. While clients are usually responsible for electrical or water hookups, the company can arrange assistance.
The installation process takes a couple of weeks.
Hello Wood can install a deck for clients.
Courtesy of György Palkó
The Pebl Grand is prebuilt at Hello Wood's factory in Hungary. For European clients, the unit can be delivered turnkey-ready, while overseas locations such as the US receive flat-packed panels for on-site assembly and installation.The units use a ground-screw foundation, so a concrete slab isn't required. The company says this reduces environmental impact and speeds installation.According to Hello Wood, a unit delivered in panels can be built and installed within a few weeks.
The living quarters of the Pebl Grand are minimalistic.
The kitchenette and dining room.
Courtesy of György Palkó
The tiny cabin has oak-lined walls, and its floors can be either parquet oak or carpet in shades of brown or blue.Most of its built-in furniture is made from cross-laminated timber (CLT) panels, finished in vegan leather — available in brown, blue, or green."The interior design gives the same feeling as the atmosphere outside — that you are in this interesting polygonal form that is inspired by nature," Huszár said.
The cabin is also meant to feel like a '5-star hotel suite.'
The sleeping quarters and bathroom area of the Pebl Grand.
Courtesy of György Palkó
Consider the Pebl Grand a more luxurious way of glamping. Beyond the bed and the translucent glass is a shower and sauna.
The Pebl Grand has a full-size shower.
The shower of the Pebl Grand tiny home.
Courtesy of György Palkó
If you don't like the standing shower, the stall and sauna can be replaced with a more formal bathroom.
The Pebl Grand may be minimalist in design, but it isn't short on luxury.
The sauna of Pebl Grand.
Courtesy of György Palkó
Saunas have become an increasingly sought-after amenity in luxury homes, and Hello Wood is among the few builders adding them to tiny homes.Hello Home's compact sauna fits one and includes a built-in bench. The sauna's floor-to-ceiling windows frame the forest, creating a view to enjoy while sweating it out.
Huszár says people are amazed by the tiny cabin.
At night, the unit nearly disappears from view.
Courtesy of György Palkó
"People enjoy the cabin," Huszár said. "They feel it's cool — something different from anything they've seen before. It's friendly, from nature, and yet it's from the future."
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account