Flag football - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
2
Basic rules
3
Variations
4
International tournaments
Toggle International tournaments subsection
4.1
IFAF Flag Football World Championship
4.2
Olympics
4.3
World Games
4.4
International Flag Football Festival
4.5
Kelly McGillis Classic
5
United States
Toggle United States subsection
5.1
USA Football
5.2
USA Flag
5.3
NFL Flag
5.4
American Flag Football League
5.5
Varsity flag football
6
Canada
Toggle Canada subsection
6.1
Varsity flag football
6.2
Canadian Flag Football League
6.2.1
Flag Football National Championships
7
United Kingdom
8
See also
9
References
10
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Flag football
24 languages
العربيةCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolEuskaraFrançaisItalianoעבריתमराठीNederlands日本語PolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Variant of American football
This article is about the sport. For the flag used to signal penalties, see Penalty flag.
Flag footballA game of flag football being played at the University of Texas at AustinHighest governing body
International Federation of American Football
International Woman's Flag Football Association
First playedc. 1940 in Fort Meade, Maryland, U.S.CharacteristicsContactLimitedTeam membersTwo teams of 4-10TypeTeam sportball gameEquipmentBall, flagVenueFootball fieldPresenceCountry or regionWorldwideOlympicTo be first included in 2028World Gamessince 2022
Flag football is a variant of gridiron football (American football or Canadian football depending on location) where, instead of tackling players to the ground, the defensive team must remove a flag or flag belt from the ball carrier ("deflagging") to end a down. In flag football, contact is limited between players. The sport has a strong amateur following with several national and international competitions each year sponsored by various associations but is most popularly played in America where it was invented. The international governing body for the sport is the International Federation of American Football (IFAF) with the International Woman's Flag Football Association (IWFFA) governing the women's game.
Flag football will be a discretionary event for the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, the first time any gridiron football code has been a full part of an Olympic programme.
History[edit]
The best available records to date point to the early 1940s during World War II as the sport's starting point.[1][2] The game began as a recreational sport created for American military personnel to help them stay fit but was designed in a way that would help prevent them from becoming injured during wartime. At the time it was called "Touch and Tail football", which then became "flag football" after the war ended.[3]
The first known recorded history of flag football can be traced to Fort Meade, Maryland, USA, which is now generally accepted as the sport's birthplace. The first national flag football organization, the National Touch Football League (NTFL), was formed in the 1960s in St. Louis, Missouri. Since 1971, the league has had a national championship game.[4]
Arizona teachers Porter Wilson and Norman Adams invented flag-a-tag belts and flags[5][6][7] which are the template for the flags used in the game today.
Basic rules[edit]
Children playing the sport in MexicoPlayer at the point of taking other player's flag at a game at Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education, Mexico City
The specific rules of flag football vary widely by league, though all share in common their replication of the rules of traditional American football with tackling replaced by flag-pulling.
Traditional American football rules are often eliminated or modified to reflect the more recreational nature of the game, the desire to avoid physical contact and injury, and the generally smaller number of participating players per side.
In a standard game of flag football, the match is played in two halves. Time length is determined by the league being played.[8] The clock only stops for injuries, half-time and timeouts. Most leagues have 10 players per team, 5 on offense and 5 on defence, there is no punting team for flag football.
Variations[edit]
Flag football is sometimes played on sand.
Chiefly, because there is no dominant sanctioning organization for the sport, the game has mutated into many variations: 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, and 4 players on each side; coed or single-gender; with kicking and punting and with point-after conversions (including some with 1, 2, and 3 point tries) or without; and field sizes that vary from full Canadian Football League (CFL) size, National Football League (NFL) size (120 yards long by 531⁄3 yards wide), to fields a third that size.
An important distinction is whether linemen are allowed to catch passes ("Eligible Linemen") or, as in the NFL / CFL, are not allowed to do so ("Ineligible Linemen"). Flag (and touch) football may also be divided into "contact" or "non-contact", depending on whether or not blocking is allowed; if allowed, blocking is usually restricted to the chest.[9]
The ability or inability of the quarterback to advance the ball past the line of scrimmage (LOS) by running is another rule subject to variation by the league.
The sport is also played on surfaces other than a traditional grass football field, including on sand beaches; beach flag football has previously featured as a discipline at the Asian Beach Games.[10]
International tournaments[edit]
IFAF Flag Football World Championship[edit]
Main article: IFAF Flag Football World Championship
The International Federation of American Footbal (IFAF) organise a biannual IFAF Flag Football World Championship.
Olympics[edit]
Main article: Flag football at the Summer Olympics
In July 2022, the National Football League (NFL) and the IFAF partnered on a bid for flag football to be included as an optional event during the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. The NFL had sponsored the inclusion of flag football as an invitational event during that month's 2022 World Games—a multi-sport event featuring sports and disciplines not currently contested at the Olympics—in Birmingham, Alabama. The men's tournament was won by the United States, and the women's tournament by Mexico.[11][12] The NFL's executive VP of football operations Troy Vincent stated that the sport was "the future of American football", as it was inclusive and had fewer barriers to access.[13] Flag football was shortlisted as one of nine sports advancing to the next phase of the bid process.[14] In October 2023, the LA organizing committee proposed the inclusion of flag football as an event,[15][16][17][18] which was officially approved at the 141st IOC Session.[19][20]
World Games[edit]
Main article: Flag football at the 2022 World Games
The 2022 World Games marked the 40th anniversary of the event, which took place from July 7 to 17. Hosted at Legion Field in Birmingham, Alabama, flag football featured eight men's teams and eight women's teams from around the world. In 2021 the World Games uploaded a beginner's guide to World Games Flag Football.[21]
As the reigning world champions,[22] the United States men's and women's teams both pre-qualified for the 2022 World Games. The remaining seven teams were selected through the IFAF qualifying process.[12]
International Flag Football Festival[edit]
The International Flag Football Festival (IFFF) organizes the World Cup of Flag Football featuring teams from the United States, Mexico and several other nations.[citation needed]
Kelly McGillis Classic[edit]
The Kelly McGillis Classic is a women's tournament organised by the IWFFA held each February in Key West, Florida[23] where over 90 women and girls teams participate in 8-on-8, semi-blocking contact flag football.
United States[edit]
USA Football[edit]
USA Football is the governing body of American football in the United States, the sole US member of the International Federation of American Football,[24] and a recognized sports organization of the US Olympic & Paralympic Committee.[25] Its non-profit mission includes designing and delivering premier educational, development, and competitive programs for American football, including tackle and flag football. USA Football is the only organization that selects and organizes the U.S. national team (men's and women's) in federation-sanctioned international competition.[26]
USA Flag[edit]
USA Flag currently operates the largest National Championships flag football tournament in the United States, along with a club World Championships every January in Florida that eclipsed over 980 teams this past January 2023, the largest single weekend flag football tournament ever recorded. The USA Flag has grown exponentially each year.
NFL Flag[edit]
The National Football League and its teams have promoted and sponsored flag football leagues in the United States as a youth sport under the branding NFL Flag; in 2020, Denver Broncos quarterback Russell Wilson became a chairman and co-owner of NFL Flag, as part of efforts by the NFL to expand its promotion of the sport into other territories. The program has also placed a particular focus on expanding women's flag football, due to gridiron football having predominantly been played by men.[27][28]
In 2023, Pro Bowl (the NFL's all-star event), as part of a retooling, was promoted into a series of skills competitions, culminating with three flag football games as the final events.[29] In 2023 and 2024, NFL Flag also hosted its world championships as part of the Pro Bowl festivities.[30][31] In February 2025 NFL commissioner Roger Goodell stated that the NFL was considering launching a pro Men's and Women's flag football league, while a source with knowledge of the league stated to ProFootballTalk that Goodell statement was an "understatement" and that work on the proposed league is "very much underway".[32][33]
American Flag Football League[edit]
Main article: American Flag Football League
The American Flag Football League (AFFL) is a flag football organization that offers youth and women's competition, and in 2023, a men's professional division.[citation needed]
Varsity flag football[edit]
By May 2020, the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), in partnership with the NFL, had begun the process of adding flag football as a varsity sport for female student-athletes.[34] The NAIA became the first collegiate governing body to sanction the sport at the varsity level. NAIA women's flag football began during the 2020–21 season as an emerging sport with at least 15 teams, and the NAIA and NFL also expected an upgrade of the sport to an invitational level sport by 2022 with at least 25 teams.[35]
In 2023, the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA) began to sponsor flag football as an emerging women's sport.[36][37]
In the spring of 2025, Atlantic East Conference of NCAA Division III began independently sponsoring women's flag football, with support from the NFL and the Philadelphia Eagles.[38] In July 2024, Conference Carolinas of NCAA Division II announced that six of its 16 member schools would sponsor women's flag football, starting in the spring of 2026.[39] In February 2025, the NCAA's Committee on Women's Athletics recommended that the association's three division add flag football as a varsity sport under its Emerging Sports for Women program; at the time of the recommendation, approximately 65 NCAA member institutions had varsity- or club-level flag football teams.[40]
Canada[edit]
Varsity flag football[edit]
The Réseau du sport étudiant du Québec (RSEQ), a U Sports conference in Quebec, began sponsoring university women's flag football independently of U Sports in 2021.[41] Additionally, the RSEQ is also a member of the Canadian Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) and has sponsored college women's flag football since 2009 and men's flag football since 2017.[42][43] The version of flag football played by the RSEQ is a hybrid of American football and Canadian football rules, utilizing Canadian fields and scoring rules with the 4 downs seen in the American game.[44]
Canadian Flag Football League[edit]
Main articles: Canadian Flag Football League and Football Canada
The Canadian Flag Football League (CFFL) was established in 2019 and runs Canada's CFFL National Championship.[45] The league is affiliated with Football Canada, the national governing body for football in Canada and its variants. The winners of the CFFL National Championship also gain the opportunity to represent Canada in international competition.
The league's major objective is to help integrate existing adult flag leagues on a nationwide basis. Depending on the region, teams compete in their Regional Championships, either Eastern, Western, or Central. The top two teams from each division advance to the national championship.
There are three divisions for the CFFL: male, female, and mixed.
Flag Football National Championships[edit]
The Canadian Flag Football National Championships (FFNC) was established in 2007 to provide athletes with the opportunity to develop their skills and compete in national team competitions and eventually the Canadian Flag Football League (CFFL) which was established in 2019. Since its inception, the format of the championship has undergone several changes.[46]
In 2011, in response to the growth of flag football and the development of Football Canada's Long-Term Athlete Development (LTAD) model, the under-15 co-ed division was replaced by separate boys and girls under-16 divisions. These divisions supplemented the pre-existing under-18 divisions that were added in 2010.
By 2013, the championship featured three divisions: male and female under-16 divisions and a female under-18 division.
In 2017, with the introduction of the Under-16 Regional Flag Challenge, the championship shifted to an under-18 format with male and female divisions.
United Kingdom[edit]
Flag football competition in the United Kingdom is, mostly, 5-a-side. There are two main organizations: the adult-only Outlaw Flag League,[47] which run Tournaments from March to October, culminating in playoff and championships. Secondly, there is the NFFL, the National Flag Football League, organized by the British American Football Association (BAFA). At a senior level, there are sixty teams divided into two leagues - NFL Division One: Highlands, North A, North B, Midlands, South East, and South West[48] and The Premiership: Highlands, North, South East, and South West, with the top teams qualifying for playoffs at the end of the season. BAFA also runs The Youth Flag Football League (YFFL)[49] and organizes teams competing at under 17, under 14, and under 11.[50][51] Flag football games in the UK are played with five players on each side with no contact, and are officiated according to the IFAF flag football rules with a few minor variations.[52] The U17s and U14s, and, for the 2023 season U11s, compete in the National Youth Flag Football League, which runs from April to August, with teams playing in Local and regional tournaments to qualify for National Finals Day and ultimately be crowned National Champions.
See also[edit]
American football portal
Touch football (American)
American flag rugby
League tag
Tag rugby
Touch rugby
References[edit]
^ "Academics, Physical Education, Course, Team-Sports, Flag Football" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on January 9, 2022. Retrieved January 8, 2022.
^ "Flag Football" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on January 9, 2022. Retrieved January 8, 2022.
^ "6 Things You Didn't Know About Flag Football". i9sports.com. Retrieved January 8, 2022.
^ "When did flag football start in the United States?". idswater.com. July 5, 2020. Retrieved April 29, 2022.
^ "US Patent for Flag football device Patent (Patent # 5,709,621)". patents.justia.com. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
^ "Flag Football Belt Device Patent Grant Wilson May 25, 1 [Wilson; Porter C.] - USPTO .report". uspto. report. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
^ "Flag football belt device". patents.google.com. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
^ "Flag Football Rules". NFL Flag. Retrieved July 24, 2024.
^ "Flag Football Plays - Lineman and Blocking". Best Flag Football Plays. Retrieved January 1, 2016.
^ "Phuket 2014 - Flag Football". Olympic Council of Asia. 2014. Archived from the original on February 5, 2023. Retrieved August 19, 2022.
^ "World Games flag football medallists honored at season-opening NFL game". www.insidethegames.biz. September 9, 2022. Retrieved September 26, 2022.
^ a b "NFL partners with The World Games to add flag football in 2022". NFL.com. Retrieved December 30, 2020.
^ "IFAF partners NFL to launch flag football bid for Los Angeles 2028 inclusion". www.insidethegames.biz. July 13, 2022. Retrieved September 26, 2022.
^ "Motorsport, cricket and karate among nine sports on shortlist for Los Angeles 2028 inclusion". Inside the Games. August 3, 2022. Retrieved August 4, 2022.
^ "Cricket recommended for 2028 LA Olympics spot". BBC Sport. Retrieved October 9, 2023.
^ Ingle, Sean (October 9, 2023). "Cricket, squash, lacrosse and flag football all set for 2028 LA Olympics". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved October 9, 2023.
^ "Los Angeles 2028 proposes five new sports for 2028 Summer Olympics". insidethegames.biz. October 9, 2023. Retrieved October 9, 2023.
^ "International Olympic Committee approves cricket and four other sports for 2028 Games in Los Angeles". Sky Sports. October 16, 2023.
^ "International Olympic Committee approves cricket and four other sports for 2028 Games in Los Angeles". Sky Sports. October 16, 2023.
^ "FFRC". November 13, 2023.
^ World Games (June 25, 2021). "A Beginner's Guide to Flag Football". YouTube. Retrieved May 1, 2022.
^ "World Flag Championship (m) | EVENTS | International American Football". ifaf.org. Retrieved December 31, 2020.
^ Kelly McGillis Classic
^ "International Federation of American Football". IFAF Member Federations.
^ "United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee". USOPC Affiliate Organizations.
^ "International Federation of American Football". IFAF Membership. Retrieved July 21, 2023.
^ "Women fueling flag football's surging popularity: 'It's accessible and inclusive'". Los Angeles Times. September 19, 2022. Retrieved September 26, 2022.
^ NBC Sports. "Seahawks QB Russell Wilson becomes co-owner and chairman of NFL FLAG". Retrieved February 5, 2020.
^ "2023 Pro Bowl Games skills competitions announced". NFL.com. Archived from the original on February 2, 2023. Retrieved January 25, 2023.
^ "NFL to host international 12 youth flag football teams at 2024 Pro Bowl games". www.insidethegames.biz. January 27, 2024. Retrieved April 23, 2024.
^ Alvarado, Jairo (January 27, 2023). "NFL Hosting Community Events During 2023 Pro Bowl Games Week". Sports Illustrated. Retrieved April 23, 2024.
^ "NFL considering pro flag football league". www.sportsbusinessjournal.com. February 3, 2025. Retrieved February 4, 2025.
^ "Source: Goodell's claim that league is "considering" a pro flag football league is an "understatement"". NBC Sports. February 4, 2025. Retrieved February 4, 2025.
^ "NAIA to sponsor women's flag football with NFL partnership". ESPN. May 4, 2020. Retrieved May 5, 2020.
^ Kerkhoff, Blair (May 4, 2020). "With NFL's backing, women's college flag football will debut at NAIA schools in 2021". The Kansas City Star. Retrieved May 5, 2020.
^ "NJCAA approves emerging sport updates" (Press release). National Junior College Athletic Association. May 5, 2022.
^ Turbeville, Ryan Wyatt (May 9, 2024). "Florida Gateway College flag football team wins back-to-back championships". WCJB.
^ DiAmore, Isabella (June 5, 2023). "Atlantic East Conference announces plans to offer NCAA Division III varsity women's flag football in 2025". The Philadelphia Inquirer.
^ "Conference Carolinas announces the addition of women's flag football for 2025-26" (Press release). Conference Carolinas. July 2, 2024.
^ "Women's flag football endorsed as emerging sport". ESPN. February 12, 2025.
^ Tomalty, Conor (November 19, 2024). "Concordia flag football's fight for varsity recognition". The Link.
^ "Conférence Sud-Ouest - Flag-football collégial féminin division 1 - 2009". RSEQ. Retrieved June 17, 2025.
^ "Conférence Sud-Ouest - Flag-football collégial masculin division 3 - 2017". RSEQ. Retrieved June 17, 2025.
^ "Livre des RÈGLES DE JEU Flag Football 7 contre 7" (PDF). Football Quebec. 2019. Retrieved June 17, 2025.
^ "League - Football Canada". footballcanada.com. Football Canada.
^ "Domestic Events | U18 FLAG FOOTBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP". Football Canada.
^ "Outlaw Flag League - Home".
^ "National Flag Football League – 2021 schedule and alignments". Britishamericanfootball.org. Retrieved November 14, 2021.
^ "Youth Flag Football League – 2021 schedule and alignments". Britishamericanfootball.org. Retrieved November 14, 2021.
^ "BAFACL Flag South". BAFA Community Leagues. Archived from the original on July 24, 2012. Retrieved May 5, 2011.
^ "BAFACL Flag North". BAFA Community Leagues. Archived from the original on July 19, 2012. Retrieved May 5, 2011.
^ "BAFA Rules Committee - Flag football". British American Football Referees' Association. Archived from the original on July 22, 2012. Retrieved September 17, 2010.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Flag football.
United States Flag & Touch Football League
Positions chart
vteGridiron football conceptsCodes
American
Glossary
History
Early
Modern
Rules
Arena
Canadian
American–Canadian comparison
Burnside rules
Glossary
9-man
8-man
7-man
6-man
Flag
Touch
Street/Backyard
Powderpuff
Wheelchair
Rules of gridiron football codes
Levels of play
Youth
Pop Warner
AYF
High school
College
Club
Sprint
Professional
Women's
International
FieldLines
Yard lines
Hash marks
End line
Goal line
Sidelines
Line of scrimmage
Field goal range
Spaces
End zone
Red zone
Dead zone
Neutral zone
Coffin corner
Flat
Gap
Hole
Pocket
Scoring
Touchdown
One-point conversion
Two-point conversion
Field goal
Safety
Single (rouge)
Ball handling
Snap
Forward pass
Lateral
Incomplete pass
Drop-back pass
Hail Mary pass
Hand-off
Rush
Punt
Touchback
Drop kick
Kickoff
Onside kick
Turnovers
Fumble
Interception
Muffed punt
"Peanut Punch"
Turnover on downs
Downs
First down
Three-and-out
Fourth down conversion
Dead ball
Play clock
Timeout
Kneel
Spike
Time warnings
3 min.
2 min.
1 min.
Clock management
Running out the clock
Untimed play
Garbage time
Statistics
All-purpose yardage
Carry
Completion
Next Gen Stats
Pass deflected
Passer rating
Passing yards
Receiving yards
Reception
Return yards
Rushing yards
Sack
Total offense
Total quarterback rating
Touchdown pass
Yards after catch
Yards from scrimmage
Practice
Practice squad
Two-a-days
Oklahoma drill
Three-cone drill
Film session
Officiating
Official (American, Canadian)
Chain crew
Penalty
Penalty flag
Instant replay
Related
Ball
Blocking
Coaching tree
Concussions
Equipment
Football IQ
Formations
List
Gatorade shower
Overtime
Plays
Positions
Running up the score
Strategy
Touchdown celebration
Tuck rule
Trading card
Twelfth man
vteFootball codesAssociation
Amputee
Beach
Crab
Five-a-side
Futsal
Indoor
Freestyle
Keepie uppie
Footbag
Paralympic
Powerchair
Jorkyball
Roller
Rush goalie
Swamp
Street
Teqball
Three-sided
Walking
Australian rules
AFLX
Lightning football
Metro footy
Nine-a-side
Rec footy
Variations
Gaelic football (GAA)
Gaelic football
Gaelic sevens
Gridiron
American
Eight-man
Flag
Nine-man
Seven-man
Six-man
Sprint
Touch
Wheelchair
Arena
Canadian
Rugby: League
League (XIIIs)
Masters
Mod
Nines
Sevens
Tag
Wheelchair
PD Rugby League
Rugby: Union
Union (XVs)
American flag
Beach
Mini
Sevens
Snow
Tag
Touch
Tens
X
Tambo
Touch
Wheelchair rugby ('murderball')
Other codes
Circle rules
Harrow
Lelo burti
Hybrid codes
Austus
Boston game
Eton field
Eton wall
International rules
Samoa rules
Speedball
Swedish
Universal
Volata
Rules and regulationsModern
Association
Australian rules
Gridiron
American
Canadian
Gaelic
Rugby league
Rugby union
Former
Cambridge
Sheffield
Ancient games
Caid
Cuju
Calcio Fiorentino
English school games
Episkyros
Harpastum
La soule
Marn Grook
Medieval
Ba
Camping
Cnapan
Cornish hurling
Old Division
Royal Shrovetide
Uppies and Downies
History
American
Early
Modern
Association
Australian rules
Gaelic
Rugby league
Rugby union
Comparisons
American and Canadian
American and rugby league
American and rugby union
Association and rugby union
Canadian and rugby league
Canadian and rugby union
Gaelic and Australian rules
Gaelic and rugby union
Rugby league and rugby union
Memorabilia
American football card
Association football card
Australian rules football card
Rugby card
Related articles
Attempts to ban football games
Oldest clubs
Oldest competitions
vte Summer Olympic sportsMandatory sports
Aquatics
Artistic
Diving
Marathon Swimming
Swimming
Water polo
Archery
Athletics
Badminton
Basketball
3x3
Boxing
Canoeing
Canoe slalom
Canoe sprint
Cycling
BMX racing
Freestyle BMX
Mountain biking
Road cycling
Track cycling
Equestrian
Dressage
Eventing
Show jumping
Fencing
Field hockey
Football
Golf
Gymnastics
Artistic gymnastics
Rhythmic gymnastics
Trampolining
Handball
Judo
Modern pentathlon
Rowing
Rugby sevens
Sailing
Shooting
Skateboarding
Sport climbing
Surfing
Table tennis
Taekwondo
Tennis
Triathlon
Volleyball
Beach volleyball
Weightlifting
Wrestling
Freestyle wrestling
Greco-Roman wrestling
Discretionary sports
Baseball / Softball
Cricket
Flag football
Lacrosse
Squash
See also: Paralympic sports and Winter Olympic sports
vteTeam sports
Sport
Governing bodies
National sport
Sportspeople
Ball sportsInvasion gamesBasket sports
Basketball
beach
deaf
3x3
water
wheelchair
Cestoball
Dueball
Korfball
Netball
Fast5
indoor
wheelchair
Rezball
Ringball
SlamBall
Footballcodes
Australian rules football
AFLX
Lightning football
Metro footy
Nine-a-side
Rec footy
Gaelic football
Ladies'
Circle rules football
Association football
Association football
amputee
beach soccer
freestyle
futsal
Indoor soccer
minifootball
paralympic
powerchair
roller soccer
socca
street
Gridiron codes
American football
eight-man
flag
nine-man
six-man
sprint
touch
wheelchair
Arena football
Canadian football
Hybrid codes
Austus
Eton wall game
International rules football
Samoa rules
Speedball
Swedish football
Universal football
Volata
Medieval/historicalfootball codes
Ba' Game
Caid
Calcio fiorentino
Camping
Cnapan
Cornish hurling
Cuju
Harpastum
Kemari
La soule
Lelo burti
Marn grook
Pasuckuakohowog
Royal Shrovetide
Uppies and downies
Rugby codes
Rugby league
masters
mod
nines
sevens
tag
wheelchair
Rugby union
American flag
beach
mini
sevens
snow
tag
Tambo
touch
tens
X
Touch
Wheelchair
Other related codes
Cuju
Kī-o-rahi
Jegichagi
Yubi lakpi
Stick-and-ballsports
Bando
Cammag
Gateball
Hurling
Camogie
Super11s
Shinty–Hurling
Indigenous North American stickball
Iomain
Knattleikr
Knotty
Lacrosse
box/indoor
field
intercrosse
women's
Ritinis
Shinty
Shinty–Hurling
Hockey sports
Ball hockey
Bandy
rink
Broomball
Field hockey
indoor
Floor hockey
Floorball
Ice hockey
pond
power
ice sledge
Ringette
Rinkball
Roller hockey
in-line
quad
Rossall hockey
Shinny
Street hockey
Underwater hockey
Unicycle hockey
Polo sports
Auto polo
Cowboy polo
Cycle polo
Elephant polo
Hobby horse polo
Horseball
Pato
Polo
Arena polo
Chovgan
Snow polo
Polocrosse
Segway polo
Yak polo
Other goal sports
Angleball
Cycle ball
Flickerball
Goalball
Handball
beach
Czech
field
wheelchair
Home Ball
Motoball
Pushball
Quidditch
Roll ball
Underwater football
Underwater rugby
Water polo
canoe
inner tube
Whirlyball
Bat-and-ballgamesBaseball variants
Baseball
Baseball5
Brännboll
Corkball
Kickball
Matball
Over-the-line
Pesäpallo
Rounders
Schlagball
Softball
Fastpitch
16-inch
Stickball
Vitilla
British baseball
English baseball
Welsh baseball
Wiffle ball
Town ball
Wireball
Cricket variants
Cricket
One Day
Test
Twenty20
Indoor cricket
Vigoro
Other games
Danish longball
Lapta
Oină
Stoolball
Net and wall games
Ball badminton
Biribol
Bossaball
Fistball
Fives
Eton
Rugby
Footbag net
Football tennis
Footvolley
Jianzi
Jokgu
Newcomb ball
Peteca
Sepak takraw
teqball
Throwball
Volleyball
beach
indoor
sitting
standing
pioneerball
snow
Other ball games
Dodgeball
Gain-ground
Balle à la main
Ballon au poing
Jeu de paume
Longue paume
Kaatsen
Kin-Ball
Lagori
Mesoamerican ballgame
Pelota mixteca
Prisonball
Tamburello
Tchoukball
Ulama
Valencian pilota
Llargues
Yukigassen
Tag sports
Kabaddi
Kho kho
World Chase Tag
Water sports
Synchronized swimming
Yacht racing
Other non-ball sports
Airsoft
Bo-taoshi
Buzkashi
Combat (juggling)
Curling
wheelchair
Guts
Hornussen
Jereed
Makura-Nage
Paintball
Roller derby
Synchronized skating
Tug of war
Ultimate
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Flag_football&oldid=1311607482"
Categories: Flag footballSports originating in the United StatesVariations of American footballSummer Olympic sportsHidden categories: CS1: unfit URLArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse mdy dates from December 2022All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2024Articles with unsourced statements from July 2023Articles with hatnote templates targeting a nonexistent pageCommons category link is on Wikidata
This page was last edited on 16 September 2025, at 01:00 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Flag football
24 languages
Add topic