Instructions for Form 1040 (2024) | Internal Revenue Service
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
()
or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
English
Español中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
Search
Sign in
Menu
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Main navigation
File
Overview
INFORMATION FOR…
Individuals
Business and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International filers
Retirement
Governments and tax-exempt bonds
Indian Tribal Governments
FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS
How to file
When to file
Where to file
Update your information
POPULAR
Tax record (transcript)
Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)
Amend return
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN)
File your taxes for free
Pay
Overview
PAY BY
Bank Account (Direct Pay)
Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
POPULAR
Your Online Account
Tax Withholding Estimator
Estimated Taxes
Penalties
Refunds
Overview
Where’s My Refund?
Direct deposit
Where’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
Overview
INFORMATION FOR...
Individuals
For you and your family
Businesses & Self-Employed
Standard mileage and other information
POPULAR
Earned Income Credit (EITC)
Child Tax Credit
Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits
Standard Deduction
Retirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
Overview
POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS
Form 1040
Individual Income Tax Return
Form 1040 Instructions
Instructions for Form 1040
Form W-9
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification
Form 4506-T
Request for Transcript of Tax Return
Form W-4
Employee's Withholding Certificate
Form 941
Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return
Form W-2
Wage and Tax Statement
Form 9465
Installment Agreement Request
POPULAR FOR TAX PROS
Form 1040-X
Amended Individual Income Tax Return
Form 2848
Power of Attorney
Form W-7
Apply for an ITIN
Circular 230
Regulations Governing Practice before the IRS
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
File
OverviewINFORMATION FOR…IndividualsBusiness and self-employedCharities and nonprofitsInternational filersRetirementGovernments and tax-exempt bondsIndian Tribal GovernmentsFILING FOR INDIVIDUALSHow to fileWhen to fileWhere to fileUpdate your informationPOPULARTax record (transcript)Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)Amend returnIdentity Protection PIN (IP PIN)File your taxes for free
Pay
OverviewPAY BYBank Account (Direct Pay)Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)POPULARYour Online AccountTax Withholding EstimatorEstimated TaxesPenalties
Refunds
OverviewWhere’s My Refund?Direct depositWhere’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
OverviewINFORMATION FOR...IndividualsBusinesses & Self-EmployedPOPULAREarned Income Credit (EITC)Child Tax CreditClean Energy and Vehicle CreditsStandard DeductionRetirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
OverviewPOPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONSForm 1040Form 1040 InstructionsForm W-9Form 4506-TForm W-4Form 941Form W-2Form 9465POPULAR FOR TAX PROSForm 1040-XForm 2848Form W-7Circular 230
Main navigation
File
Pay
Refunds
Credits & Deductions
Forms & Instructions
Info Menu Mobile
Charities & Nonprofits
Help
News
Tax Pros
HomeInstructions
Instructions for Form 1040 (2024)
1040 - Introductory Material
What's New
Introduction
Standard deduction amount increased.
Choosing to treat a nonresident alien or dual-status alien spouse as U.S. resident.
Updated reporting requirements for Form 1099-K.
Changes to reporting amounts from Form 1099-K.
Digital assets received as ordinary income.
Exception to the 10% additional tax for early distributions.
Certain relief payments made to individuals affected by the East Palestine train derailment are not taxable.
Qualified wildfire relief payments are not taxable.
Surviving spouse election to be treated as employee.
2024 is the last year to file Form 5405.
Nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments reported on Form(s) W-2.
Reporting excessive payments, increase in tax, and recapture amounts related to certain investment credits.
Repayment amount from Form 8936.
Purchase of savings bonds discontinued.
U.S. tax allocable to the U.S. Virgin Islands now reported on Schedule 3, line 13z.
Reporting a transfer of a credit for a new or previously owned clean vehicle credit to a dealer at the time of sale.
Direct File.
Filing Requirements
Introduction
Do You Have To File?
Requirement to reconcile advance payments of the premium tax credit.
Exception for certain children under age 19 or full-time students.
Resident aliens.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
When and Where Should You File?
What if You Can't File on Time?
Private Delivery Services
Line Instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR
Introduction
What form to file.
Fiscal year filers.
Write-in information.
Name and Address
Name Change
Address Change
P.O. Box
Foreign Address
Death of a Taxpayer
Social Security Number (SSN)
IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) for Aliens
Nonresident Alien Spouse
Presidential Election Campaign Fund
Filing Status
Single
Married Filing Jointly
Joint and several tax liability.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
Married Filing Separately
Head of Household
Test 1.
Test 2.
Qualifying child.
Dependent.
Exception to time lived with you.
Keeping up a home.
Married persons who live apart.
Adopted child.
Foster child.
Qualifying Surviving Spouse
Adopted child.
Dependent.
Exception to time lived with you.
Keeping up a home.
Digital Assets
How To Report Digital Asset Transactions
Standard Deduction
Single and Married Filing Jointly
Age/Blindness
Death of spouse in 2024.
Death of taxpayer in 2024.
Blindness
Married Filing Separately
Who Qualifies as Your Dependent
Before you begin.
Step 1. Do You Have a Qualifying Child?
Step 2. Is Your Qualifying Child Your Dependent?
Step 3. Does Your Qualifying Child Qualify You for the Child Tax Credit or Credit for Other Dependents?
Step 4. Is Your Qualifying Relative Your Dependent?
Step 5. Does Your Qualifying Relative Qualify You for the Credit for Other Dependents?
Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child.
Adoption taxpayer identification numbers (ATINs).
Children of divorced or separated parents.
Custodial and noncustodial parents.
Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement.
Post-2008 decree or agreement.
Release of certain tax benefits revoked.
Exception to citizen test.
Exception to gross income test.
Exception to time lived with you.
Foster child.
Kidnapped child.
Married person.
Multiple support agreements.
Permanently and totally disabled.
Public assistance payments.
Qualifying child of more than one person.
Social security number.
Student.
Income
Forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) Loans
Foreign-Source Income
Foreign retirement plans.
Foreign accounts and trusts.
Foreign financial assets.
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Cases
Community Property States
Nevada, Washington, and California domestic partners.
Rounding Off to Whole Dollars
Line 1a
Total Amount From Form(s) W-2, Box 1
Line 1b
Household Employee Wages Not Reported on Form(s) W-2
Line 1c
Tip Income Not Reported on Line 1a
Line 1d
Medicaid Waiver Payments Not Reported on Form(s) W-2, Box 1
Line 1e
Taxable Dependent Care Benefits From Form 2441, Line 26
Line 1f
Employer-Provided Adoption Benefits From Form 8839, Line 29
Line 1g
Wages From Form 8919, Line 6
Line 1h
Other Earned Income
Line 1i
Nontaxable Combat Pay Election
Were You a Statutory Employee?
Missing or Incorrect Form W-2?
Line 2a
Tax-Exempt Interest
Line 2b
Taxable Interest
Line 3a
Qualified Dividends
Exception.
Line 3b
Ordinary Dividends
Nondividend Distributions
Lines 4a and 4b
IRA Distributions
Exception 1.
Exception 2.
Exception 3.
Exception 4.
More than one exception applies.
More than one distribution.
More information.
Lines 5a and 5b
Pensions and Annuities
Fully Taxable Pensions and Annuities
Partially Taxable Pensions and Annuities
Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers
Simplified Method Worksheet—Lines 5a and 5b
Payments when you are disabled.
Simplified Method
Annuity Starting Date
Age (or Combined Ages) at Annuity Starting Date
Cost
Rollovers
Lump-Sum Distributions
Lines 6a, 6b, and 6c
Lines 6a and 6b Social Security Benefits
Exception.
Disability payments.
Accrued leave payment.
Social Security Benefits Worksheet—Lines 6a and 6b
Line 6c
Line 7
Capital Gain or (Loss)
Exception 1.
Exception 2.
Total Income and Adjusted Gross Income
Line 10
Tax and Credits
Line 12
Itemized Deductions or Standard Deduction
Itemized Deductions
Standard Deduction
Exception 1—Dependent.
Exception 2—Born before January 2, 1960, or blind.
Exception 3—Separate return or dual-status alien.
Exception 4—Increased standard deduction for net qualified disaster loss.
Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
Line 13
Qualified Business Income Deduction (Section 199A Deduction)
Line 16
Tax
□  Yes.
□  No.
Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet.
Form 8615.
Schedule D Tax Worksheet.
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet.
Schedule J.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet—Line 16
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16
Line 19
Child Tax Credit and Credit for Other Dependents
Form 8862, who must file.
Payments
Line 25 Federal Income Tax Withheld
Line 25a—Form(s) W-2
Line 25b—Form(s) 1099
Line 25c—Other Forms
Line 26
2024 Estimated Tax Payments
Divorced taxpayers.
Name change.
Line 27— Earned Income Credit (EIC)
What Is the EIC?
Step 1. All Filers
Step 2. Investment Income
Step 3. Qualifying Child
Step 4. Filers Without a Qualifying Child
Step 5. Earned Income
Step 6. How To Figure the Credit
Adopted child.
Church employees.
Clergy.
Combat pay, nontaxable.
Credit figured by the IRS.
Exception to time lived with you.
Form 4797 filers.
Form 8862, who must file.
Foster child.
Main home.
Married child.
Members of the military.
Nonresident aliens.
Permanently and totally disabled.
Qualifying child of more than one person.
Social security number (SSN).
Student.
Welfare benefits, effect of credit on.
EIC Table
Line 28
Additional Child Tax Credit
Form 8862, who must file.
Line 29
American Opportunity Credit
Form 8862 required.
Line 30
Refund
Line 34
Amount Overpaid
Refund Offset
Deposit Refund Into Multiple Accounts
Injured Spouse
Lines 35a Through 35d
Amount Refunded to You
Claiming a refund for a deceased taxpayer.
Effect of refund on benefits.
Account must be in your name.
Why Use Direct Deposit?
IRA.
Form 8888.
Line 35b
Line 35c
Line 35d
Sample Check—Lines 35b Through 35d
Reasons Your Direct Deposit Request Will Be Rejected
Line 36
Applied to Your 2025 Estimated Tax
Amount You Owe
Bad check or payment.
Line 37
Amount You Owe
Pay Online
Pay by Phone
Debit or credit card.
EFTPS.
Pay by Mobile Device
Pay by Cash
Pay by Check or Money Order
Notice to taxpayers presenting checks.
No checks of $100 million or more accepted.
What if You Can't Pay?
Installment agreement.
Extension of time to pay.
Line 38
Estimated Tax Penalty
Exception.
Figuring the Penalty
Third Party Designee
Sign Your Return
Court-Appointed Conservator, Guardian, or Other Fiduciary
Child's Return
Requirements for a Paper Return
Requirements for an Electronic Return
Self-Select PIN.
Practitioner PIN.
Form 8453.
Identity Protection PIN
Phone Number and Email Address
Paid Preparer Must Sign Your Return
Assemble Your Return
1040 - Main Contents
Tax Table
General Information
Introduction
Voter Registration
How To Avoid Common Mistakes
Innocent Spouse Relief
Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Payments for 2025
Secure Your Tax Records From Identity Theft
Protect yourself from suspicious emails, texts, and social media messages, phishing schemes, and phone scams.
How Do You Make a Gift To Reduce Debt Held By the Public?
How Long Should Records Be Kept?
Amended Return
Need a Copy of Your Tax Return Information?
Past Due Returns
How To Get Tax Help
Preparing and filing your tax return.
Free options for tax preparation.
Using online tools to help prepare your return.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?
Employers can register to use Business Services Online.
Business tax account.
IRS social media.
Online tax information in other languages.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities.
Alternative media preference.
Disasters.
Getting tax forms and publications.
Mobile-friendly forms.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook format.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only).
Get a transcript of your return.
Tax Pro Account.
Using direct deposit.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity theft issues.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
Making a tax payment.
What if I can’t pay now?
Filing an amended return.
Checking the status of your amended return.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received.
IRS Document Upload Tool.
Schedule LEP.
Contacting your local TAC.
Interest and Penalties
Interest
Penalties
Late filing.
Late payment of tax.
Frivolous return.
Other.
Refund Information
Instructions for Schedule 1 Additional Income and Adjustments to Income
General Instructions
Form(s) 1099-K
Additional Income
Line 1
Taxable Refunds, Credits, or Offsets of State and Local Income Taxes
Exception.
Lines 2a and 2b
Alimony Received
Line 2a
Line 2b
Line 3
Business Income or (Loss)
State and Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 1
Line 4
Other Gains or (Losses)
Line 7
Unemployment Compensation
Lines 8a Through 8z
Other Income
Line 8a
Net operating loss (NOL) deduction.
Line 8b
Gambling.
Line 8c
Cancellation of debt.
Line 8d
Foreign earned income exclusion and housing exclusion from Form 2555.
Line 8e
Income from Form 8853.
Line 8f
Income from Form 8889.
Line 8h
Jury duty pay.
Line 8i
Prizes and awards.
Line 8j
Activity not engaged in for profit income.
Line 8k
Stock options.
Line 8l
Income from the rental of personal property if you engaged in the rental for profit but were not in the business of renting such property.
Line 8m
Olympic and Paralympic medals and USOC prize money.
Line 8n
Section 951(a) inclusion.
Line 8o
Section 951A(a) inclusion.
Line 8p
461(l) excess business loss adjustment.
Line 8q
Taxable distributions from an ABLE account.
Line 8r
Scholarship and fellowship grants not reported on Form W-2.
Line 8s
Nontaxable amount of Medicaid waiver payments included on Form 1040, line 1a or 1d.
Line 8t
Pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a nongovernmental section 457 plan.
Line 8u
Wages earned while incarcerated.
Line 8v
Digital assets not reported elsewhere.
Line 8z
Other income.
Nontaxable income.
Adjustments to Income
Line 11
Educator Expenses
Line 12
Certain Business Expenses of Reservists, Performing Artists, and Fee-Basis Government Officials
Line 13
Health Savings Account (HSA) Deduction
Line 14
Moving Expenses
Line 15
Deductible Part of Self-Employment Tax
Line 16
Self-Employed SEP, SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans
Line 17
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 17
Exceptions.
Line 18
Penalty on Early Withdrawal of Savings
Lines 19a, 19b, and 19c Alimony Paid
Line 19a
Line 19c
Line 20
IRA Deduction
Were You Covered by a Retirement Plan?
Married persons filing separately.
IRA Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 20
IRA Deduction Worksheet—Continued
Line 21
Student Loan Interest Deduction
Exception.
Qualified student loan.
Qualified higher education expenses.
Student Loan Interest Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 21
Line 22
Line 23
Archer MSA Deduction
Lines 24a Through 24z
Line 24a
Jury duty pay.
Line 24b
Line 24c
Line 24d
Line 24e
Line 24f
Line 24g
Line 24h
Line 24i
Line 24j
Line 24k
Line 24z
Instructions for Schedule 2 Additional Taxes
General Instructions
Specific Instructions
Lines 1a Through 1z
Additions to Tax
Line 1a. Excess advance premium tax credit repayment.
Line 1b. Repayment of new clean vehicle credit(s) from Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II.
Line 1c. Repayment of previously owned clean vehicle credit(s) from Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV.
Line 1d. Recapture of net EPE.
Line 1e. Excessive payments (EP) from Form 4255, column (n).
Line 1f. 20% EP from Form 4255, column (o).
Line 1y. Other additions to tax.
Line 2
Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
Exception.
Worksheet To See if You Should Fill in Form 6251—Schedule 2, Line 2
Line 5
Unreported Social Security and Medicare Tax From Form 4137
Line 6
Unreported Social Security and Medicare Tax From Form 8919
Line 8
Additional Tax on IRAs, Other Qualified Retirement Plans, etc.
Exception.
Line 9
Household Employment Taxes
Line 10
First-Time Homebuyer Credit Repayment
Line 11
Additional Medicare Tax
Line 12
Net Investment Income Tax
Line 13
Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or group-term life insurance.
Line 14
Interest on Tax Due on Installment Income From the Sale of Certain Residential Lots and Timeshares
Line 15
Interest on the Deferred Tax on Gain From Certain Installment Sales With a Sales Price Over $150,000
Line 16
Recapture of Low-Income Housing Credit
Lines 17a Through 17z
Other Additional Taxes
Line 17a.
Line 17b.
Line 17c.
Line 17d.
Line 17e.
Line 17f.
Line 17g.
Line 17h.
Line 17i.
Line 17j.
Line 17k.
Line 17l.
Line 17m.
Line 17n.
Line 17o.
Line 17p.
Line 17q.
Line 17z.
Line 19
Recapture of Net EPE From Form 4255
Instructions for Schedule 3 Additional Credits and Payments
General Instructions
Specific Instructions
Line 1
Foreign Tax Credit
Exception.
Line 2
Credit for Child and Dependent Care Expenses
Line 3
Education Credits
Line 4
Retirement Savings Contributions Credit (Saver's Credit)
Line 5
Residential Energy Credits
Line 5a—Residential clean energy credit.
Line 5b—Energy efficient home improvement credit.
Condos and co-ops.
More details.
Lines 6a Through 6z
Other Nonrefundable Credits
Line 6a.
Line 6b.
Line 6c.
Line 6d.
Line 6e.
Line 6f.
Line 6g.
Line 6h.
Line 6i.
Line 6j.
Line 6k.
Line 6l.
Line 6m.
Line 6z.
Line 9
Net Premium Tax Credit
Line 10
Amount Paid With Request for Extension To File
Line 11
Excess Social Security and Tier 1 RRTA Tax Withheld
Line 12
Credit for Federal Tax on Fuels
Lines 13a Through 13z Other Payments or Refundable Credits
Line 13b
Line 13c
Line 13d
Line 13z
Other refundable credits.
Tax Topics
List of Tax Topics
IRS help available
IRS procedures
Collection
Alternative filing methods
General information
Which forms to file
Types of income
Adjustments to income
Itemized deductions
Tax computation
Tax credits
IRS notices
Basis of assets, depreciation, and sale of assets
Employer tax information
Electronic media filers—1099 series and related information returns
Tax information for U.S. resident aliens and citizens living abroad
Tax information for residents of Puerto Rico
Major Categories of Federal Income and Outlays for Fiscal Year 2023
Footnotes for Certain Federal Outlays
1040 - Additional Material
1040 (2024)
Instructions
2024
Note. This booklet does not contain any tax forms.
1040 - Introductory Material
1040 and 1040-SR Helpful Hints
Form 1040 and 1040-SR Helpful Hints
Form 1040 and 1040-SR Helpful Hints
For 2024, you will use Form 1040 or, if you were born before January 2, 1960, you have the option to use Form 1040-SR.
You may only need to file Form 1040 or 1040-SR and none of the numbered schedules, Schedules 1 through 3. However, if your return is more complicated (for example, you claim certain deductions or credits or owe additional taxes), you will need to complete one or more of the numbered schedules. Below is a general guide to which schedule(s) you will need to file based on your circumstances. See the instructions for the schedules for more information.
If you e-file your return, the software you use will generally determine which schedules you need.
IF YOU have additional income, such as business or farm income or loss, unemployment compensation, or prize or award money. THEN USE Schedule 1, Part I.
IF YOU have any adjustments to income, such as student loan interest, self-employment tax, or educator expenses. THEN USE Schedule 1, Part II.
IF YOU owe alternative minimum tax (AMT) or need to make an excess advance premium tax credit repayment. THEN USE Schedule 2, Part I.
IF YOU owe other taxes, such as self-employment tax, household employment taxes, additional tax on IRAs or other qualified retirement plans and tax-favored accounts. THEN USE Schedule 2, Part II.
IF YOU can claim a nonrefundable credit (other than the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents), such as the foreign tax credit, education credits, or general business credit. THEN USE Schedule 3, Part I.
IF YOU can claim a refundable credit (other than the earned income credit, American opportunity credit, or additional child tax credit); such as the net premium tax credit. Have other payments, such as an amount paid with a request for an extension to file or excess social security tax withheld. THEN USE Schedule 3, Part II.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Here To Help You
What is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer rights. TAS strives to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.
What can TAS do for you?
TAS can help you if your tax problem is causing a financial difficulty, you've tried and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure just isn't working as it should. And the service is free. If you qualify for TAS assistance, you will be assigned to one advocate who will work with you throughout the process and will do everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can help you if:
Your problem is causing a financial difficulty for you, your family, or your business.
You face (or your business is facing) an immediate threat of adverse action.
You’ve tried to contact the IRS but no one has responded, or the IRS hasn’t responded by the date promised.
How can you reach TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your advocate’s number:
Go to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/contact-us;
Download Publication 1546, Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Your Voice at the IRS. If you do not have Internet access, you can call the IRS toll free at 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676) and ask for a copy of Publication 1546;
Check your local directory; or
Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
How can you learn about your taxpayer rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. The TAS website TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov can help you understand what these rights mean to you and how they apply. These are your rights. Know them. Use them.
How else does TAS help taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of these broad issues, please report it to TAS at IRS.gov/SAMS. Be sure not to include any personal taxpayer information.
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics Help Taxpayers
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) are independent from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS). LITCs represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and who need to resolve tax problems with the IRS. LITCs can represent taxpayers in audits, appeals, and tax collection disputes before the IRS and in court. In addition, LITCs can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who speak English as a second language. Services are offered for free or a small fee. For more information or to find an LITC near you, see the LITC page at TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/LITCMap or IRS Publication 4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List. This publication is available online at IRS.gov/Forms-Pubs or by calling the IRS toll free at 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676).
Suggestions for Improving the IRS
Taxpayer Advocacy Panel
Taxpayers have an opportunity to provide direct feedback to the IRS through the Taxpayer Advocacy Panel (TAP). The TAP is a Federal Advisory Committee comprised of an independent panel of citizen volunteers who listen to taxpayers, identify taxpayers' systemic issues, and make suggestions for improving IRS customer service. Contact TAP at ImproveIRS.org.
Affordable Care Act - What You Need To Know
Affordable Care Act — What You Need To Know
Requirement To Reconcile Advance Payments of the Premium Tax Credit
The premium tax credit helps pay premiums for health insurance purchased from the Health Insurance Marketplace (the Marketplace). Eligible individuals may have advance payments of the premium tax credit made on their behalf directly to the insurance company.
If you or a family member enrolled in health insurance through the Marketplace and advance payments of the premium tax credit were made to your insurance company to reduce your monthly premium payment, you must attach Form 8962 to your return to reconcile (compare) the advance payments with your premium tax credit for the year.
The Marketplace is required to send Form 1095-A by January 31, 2025, listing the advance payments and other information you need to complete Form 8962.
You will need Form 1095-A from the Marketplace.
Complete Form 8962 to claim the credit and to reconcile your advance credit payments.
Include Form 8962 with your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. (Don’t include Form 1095-A.)
Health Coverage Reporting
If you or someone in your family was an employee in 2024, the employer may be required to send you a Form 1095-C. Part II of Form 1095-C shows whether your employer offered you health insurance coverage and, if so, information about the offer. You should receive Form 1095-C by early March 2025. This information may be relevant if you purchased health insurance coverage for 2024 through the Marketplace and wish to claim the premium tax credit on Schedule 3, line 9. However, you don’t need to wait to receive this form to file your return. You may rely on other information received from your employer. If you don’t wish to claim the premium tax credit for 2024, you don’t need the information in Part II of Form 1095-C. For more information on who is eligible for the premium tax credit, see the Instructions for Form 8962.
Reminder: Health care coverage. If you need health care coverage, go to www.HealthCare.gov to learn about health insurance options for you and your family, how to buy health insurance, and how you might qualify to get financial assistance to buy health insurance.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
What's New
Introduction
For information about any additional changes to the 2024 tax law or any other developments affecting Form 1040 or 1040-SR or the instructions, go to IRS.gov/Form1040.
Standard deduction amount increased.
For 2024, the standard deduction amount has been increased for all filers. The amounts are:
$14,600–Single or Married filing separately.
$29,200–Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse.
$21,900–Head of household.
Choosing to treat a nonresident alien or dual-status alien spouse as U.S. resident.
If you and your spouse choose to treat a nonresident alien or dual-status alien spouse as a U.S. resident for 2024, or if a prior year's choice to treat a nonresident alien spouse as a U.S. resident remains in effect for 2024, check the box in the Filing Status section and enter the name of the nonresident alien or dual-status alien spouse in the entry space. See Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens, later.
Updated reporting requirements for Form 1099-K.
For 2024, payment card companies, payment apps, and online marketplaces will be required to send you a Form 1099-K when the amount of your business transactions during the year is more than $5,000. In calendar year 2025, the threshold will lower to more than $2,500 and for 2026 and later years, the threshold will be more than $600.
Changes to reporting amounts from Form 1099-K.
Beginning in 2024, if you received a Form(s) 1099-K that shows payments that were included in error or for personal items sold at a loss, you will now enter these amounts in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1. See Form(s) 1099-K, in the Schedule 1 instructions.
Digital assets received as ordinary income.
If you received digital assets as ordinary income, and that income is not reported elsewhere on your return, you will enter those amounts on Schedule 1, line 8v. See the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8v.
Exception to the 10% additional tax for early distributions.
Beginning in 2024, the exception to the 10% additional tax for early distributions includes distributions from a retirement plan to pay for certain emergency personal expenses and to victims of domestic violence. See Form 5329, Pub. 575, and Pub. 590-B.
Certain relief payments made to individuals affected by the East Palestine train derailment are not taxable.
If you received relief payments due to being affected by the East Palestine, Ohio, train derailment, these payments may be nontaxable. See IRS.gov/DisasterRelief and Pub. 547.
Qualified wildfire relief payments are not taxable.
If you received a qualified wildfire relief payment, these payments may be nontaxable. See IRS.gov/DisasterRelief and Pub. 547.
Surviving spouse election to be treated as employee.
Beginning in 2024, a surviving spouse who is the designated beneficiary of an employee covered by a qualified retirement plan (or other plan to which the required minimum distribution rules apply) or who is the designated beneficiary of an IRA owner, may elect to be treated as the employee for purposes of the required minimum distribution rules. See Pub. 575 and Pub. 590-B.
2024 is the last year to file Form 5405.
The 15-year repayment period for the first-time homebuyer credit for homes purchased in 2008 began with your 2010 tax return and ends with your 2024 tax return.
Nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments reported on Form(s) W-2.
If you received nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments, those amounts should now be reported to you on Form(s) W-2 in box 12, Code II.
Reporting excessive payments, increase in tax, and recapture amounts related to certain investment credits.
If you reported an excessive payment, an increase in tax, and/or recapture amount related to certain credits on Form 4255, you will also need to report those amounts on Schedule 2. See the instructions for Form 4255 and Schedule 2, lines 1d, 1e, 1f, 1y, 17a, 17z, and 19.
Repayment amount from Form 8936.
If you have a repayment of the credit for new or previously owned clean vehicles reported on Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936), those amounts will now be reported on Schedule 2, lines 1b and 1c.
Purchase of savings bonds discontinued.
The program allowing for your refund to be deposited into your TreasuryDirect® account to buy savings bonds, as well as the ability to buy paper bonds with your refund, has been discontinued. Form 8888 is now only used to split your direct deposit refund between two or more accounts or to split your refund between a direct deposit and a paper check. Go to TreasuryDirect.gov/Research-Center/FAQ-IRS-Tax-Feature.
U.S. tax allocable to the U.S. Virgin Islands now reported on Schedule 3, line 13z.
If you use Form 8689 to figure your amount of U.S. tax allocable to the U.S. Virgin Islands, you will now report this amount on Schedule 3, line 13z. See the instructions for Schedule 3, line 13z.
Reporting a transfer of a credit for a new or previously owned clean vehicle credit to a dealer at the time of sale.
If you purchased a new or used clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the time of sale by transferring the credit to the dealer, you must file a tax return and attach Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936) to report the transfer of the credit and reconcile your eligibility on your return.
Direct File.
Direct File is a permanent option for taxpayers to file federal tax returns online–for free–directly and securely with the IRS starting in 2025. See DirectFile.IRS.gov. Direct File is a filing option for taxpayers in participating states who have relatively simple tax returns reporting only certain types of income and claiming certain credits and deductions. See IRS.gov/DirectFile for information about additional states that have joined, and the new tax situations Direct File added to the service for the 2024 tax year.
Electronic Filing (e-file)
Free Ways to File Your Taxes
Free Ways to File Your Taxes
Direct File
Direct File is an option for eligible taxpayers to file their federal tax returns online, securely with the IRS. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile to see if you qualify and for more information.
Free File
If you meet the adjusted gross income requirement, you may be able to use free tax preparation software to prepare and e-file your tax return. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify and for more information, including a list of Free File trusted partners.
Free Fillable Forms
Available for any income level, Free Fillable Forms allows people who are experienced in preparing their own tax returns to prepare and e-file their federal tax return. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile for more information, including what you need to use Free Fillable Forms.
VITA and TCE
The VITA (Volunteer Income Tax Assistance) and TCE (Tax Counseling for the Elderly) programs offer free basic tax return preparation for certain individuals. Go to IRS.gov/VITA to see if you qualify and to find a VITA/TCE site near you.
Go to IRS.gov/Payments to see all your online payment options.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
Filing Requirements
Introduction
These rules apply to all U.S. citizens, regardless of where they live, and resident aliens.
Have you tried IRS e-file? It's the fastest way to get your refund and it's free if you are eligible. Visit IRS.gov for details.
Do You Have To File?
Use Chart A, B, or C to see if you must file a return. U.S. citizens who lived in or had income from a U.S. territory should see Pub. 570. Residents of Puerto Rico can use Tax Topic 901 to see if they must file.
Even if you do not otherwise have to file a return, you should file one to get a refund of any federal income tax withheld. You should also file if you are eligible for any of the following credits.
Earned income credit.
Additional child tax credit.
American opportunity credit.
Premium tax credit.
See Pub. 501 for details. Also see Pub. 501 if you do not have to file but received a Form 1099-B (or substitute statement).
Requirement to reconcile advance payments of the premium tax credit.
If you, your spouse with whom you are filing a joint return, or a dependent was enrolled in coverage through the Marketplace for 2024 and advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for this coverage, you must file a 2024 return and attach Form 8962. You (or whoever enrolled you) should have received Form 1095-A from the Marketplace with information about your coverage and any advance payments.
You must attach Form 8962 even if someone else enrolled you, your spouse, or your dependent. If you are a dependent who is claimed on someone else's 2024 return, you do not have to attach Form 8962.
Exception for certain children under age 19 or full-time students.
If certain conditions apply, you can elect to include on your return the income of a child who was under age 19 at the end of 2024 or was a full-time student under age 24 at the end of 2024. To do so, use Form 8814. If you make this election, your child doesn't have to file a return. For details, use Tax Topic 553 or see Form 8814.
A child born on January 1, 2001, is considered to be age 24 at the end of 2024. Do not use Form 8814 for such a child.
Resident aliens.
These rules also apply if you were a resident alien. Also, you may qualify for certain tax treaty benefits. Generally, you are a resident alien if you meet either the green card test or the substantial presence test for 2024. See Pub. 519 for details.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
These rules also apply if you were a nonresident alien or a dual-status alien and both of the following apply.
You were married to a U.S. citizen or resident alien at the end of 2024.
You elected to be taxed as a resident alien.
For more information, see Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens, later, and Pub. 519.
Specific rules apply to determine if you are a resident alien, nonresident alien, or dual-status alien. Most nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens have different filing requirements and may have to file Form 1040-NR. Pub. 519 discusses these requirements and other information to help aliens comply with U.S. tax law.
When and Where Should You File?
File Form 1040 or 1040-SR by April 15, 2025. If you file after this date, you may have to pay interest and penalties. See Interest and Penalties, later.
If you were serving in, or in support of, the U.S. Armed Forces in a designated combat zone or contingency operation, you may be able to file later. See Pub. 3 for details.
If you e-file your return, there is no need to mail it. However, if you choose to mail it instead, filing instructions and addresses are at the end of these instructions.
The chart at the end of these instructions provides the current address for mailing your return. Use these addresses for Forms 1040 or 1040-SR filed in 2025. The address for returns filed after 2025 may be different. See IRS.gov/Form1040 for any updates.
What if You Can't File on Time?
You can get an automatic 6-month extension if, no later than the date your return is due, you file Form 4868. If you want to apply for an extension electronically, see Form 4868 for details.
An automatic 6-month extension to file doesn't extend the time to pay your tax. If you don’t pay your tax by the original due date of your return, you will owe interest on the unpaid tax and may owe penalties. See Form 4868.
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien, you may qualify for an automatic extension of time to file without filing Form 4868. You qualify if, on the due date of your return, you meet one of the following conditions.
You live outside the United States and Puerto Rico and your main place of business or post of duty is outside the United States and Puerto Rico.
You are in military or naval service on duty outside the United States and Puerto Rico.
This extension gives you an extra 2 months to file and pay the tax, but interest will be charged from the original due date of the return on any unpaid tax. You must include a statement showing that you meet the requirements. If you are still unable to file your return by the end of the 2-month period, you can get an additional 4 months if, no later than June 16, 2025, you file Form 4868. This 4-month extension of time to file doesn't extend the time to pay your tax. See Form 4868.
Private Delivery Services
If you choose to mail your return, you can use certain private delivery services designated by the IRS to meet the “timely mailing treated as timely filing/paying” rule for tax returns and payments. These private delivery services include only the following.
UPS Next Day Air Early A.M., UPS Next Day Air, UPS Next Day Air Saver, UPS 2nd Day Air, UPS 2nd Day Air A.M., UPS Worldwide Express Plus, and UPS Worldwide Express.
FedEx First Overnight, FedEx Priority Overnight, FedEx Standard Overnight, FedEx 2 Day, FedEx International Next Flight Out, FedEx International Priority, FedEx International First, and FedEx International Economy.
DHL Express 9:00, DHL Express 10:30, DHL Express 12:00, DHL Express Worldwide, DHL Express Envelope, DHL Import Express 10:30, DHL Import Express 12:00, and DHL Import Express Worldwide.
To check for any updates to the list of designated private delivery services, go to IRS.gov/PDS. For the IRS mailing address to use if you’re using a private delivery service, go to IRS.gov/PDSStreetAddresses.
The private delivery service can tell you how to get written proof of the mailing date.
Only the U.S. Postal Service can deliver to P.O. boxes. You can't use a private delivery service to make tax payments required to be sent to a P.O. box.
Chart A—For Most People
IF your filing status is . . .
AND at the end of 2024
you were* . . .
THEN file a return if your gross
income** was at least . . .
Single
under 65
65 or older
$14,600
16,550
Married filing jointly***
under 65 (both spouses)
65 or older (one spouse)
65 or older (both spouses)
$29,200
30,750
32,300
Married filing separately
any age
$5
Head of household
under 65
65 or older
$21,900
23,850
Qualifying surviving spouse
under 65
65 or older
$29,200
30,750
*If you were born on January 1, 1960, you are considered to be age 65 at the end of 2024. (If your spouse died in 2024 or if you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2024, see Pub. 501.)
**Gross income means all income you received in the form of money, goods, property, and services that isn't exempt from tax, including any income from sources outside the United States or from the sale of your main home (even if you can exclude part or all of it). Don’t include any social security benefits unless (a) you are married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in 2024, or (b) one-half of your social security benefits plus your other gross income and any tax-exempt interest is more than $25,000 ($32,000 if married filing jointly). If (a) or (b) applies, see the instructions for lines 6a and 6b to figure the taxable part of social security benefits you must include in gross income. Gross income includes gains, but not losses, reported on Form 8949 or Schedule D. Gross income from a business means, for example, the amount on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F, line 9. But, in figuring gross income, don’t reduce your income by any losses, including any loss on Schedule C, line 7, or Schedule F, line 9.
***If you didn't live with your spouse at the end of 2024 (or on the date your spouse died) and your gross income was at least $5, you must file a return regardless of your age.
Chart B—For Children and Other Dependents (See Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.)
If your parent (or someone else) can claim you as a dependent, use this chart to see if you must file a return.
In this chart, unearned income includes taxable interest, ordinary dividends, and capital gain distributions. It also includes unemployment compensation, taxable social security benefits, pensions, annuities, and distributions of unearned income from a trust. Earned income includes salaries, wages, tips, professional fees, and taxable scholarship and fellowship grants. Gross income is the total of your unearned and earned income.
Single dependents. Were you either age 65 or older or blind?
No. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
Your unearned income was over $1,300.
Your earned income was over $14,600.
Your gross income was more than the larger of—
$1,300, or
Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $450.
Yes. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
Your unearned income was over $3,250 ($5,200 if 65 or older and blind).
Your earned income was over $16,550 ($18,500 if 65 or older and blind).
Your gross income was more than the larger of—
$3,250 ($5,200 if 65 or older and blind), or
Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $2,400 ($4,350 if 65 or older and blind).
Married dependents. Were you either age 65 or older or blind?
No. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
Your unearned income was over $1,300.
Your earned income was over $14,600.
Your gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and itemizes deductions.
Your gross income was more than the larger of—
$1,300, or
Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $450.
Yes. You must file a return if any of the following apply.
Your unearned income was over $2,850 ($4,400 if 65 or older and blind).
Your earned income was over $16,150 ($17,700 if 65 or older and blind).
Your gross income was at least $5 and your spouse files a separate return and itemizes deductions.
Your gross income was more than the larger of—
$2,850 ($4,400 if 65 or older and blind), or
Your earned income (up to $14,150) plus $2,000 ($3,550 if 65 or older and blind).
Chart C—Other Situations When You Must File
You must file a return if any of the conditions below apply for 2024.
1.
You owe any special taxes, including any of the following (see the instructions for Schedule 2).
a.
Alternative minimum tax.
b.
Additional tax on a qualified plan, including an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), or other tax-favored account.
c.
Household employment taxes.
d.
Social security and Medicare tax on tips you didn't report to your employer or on wages you received from an employer who didn't withhold these taxes.
e.
Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips you reported to your employer or on group-term life insurance and additional taxes on health savings accounts.
f.
Recapture taxes.
2.
You (or your spouse if filing jointly) received health savings account, Archer MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA distributions.
3.
You had net earnings from self-employment of at least $400.
4.
You had wages of $108.28 or more from a church or qualified church-controlled organization that is exempt from employer social security and Medicare taxes.
5.
Advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for you, your spouse, or a dependent who enrolled in coverage through the Marketplace. You or whoever enrolled you should have received Form(s) 1095-A showing the amount of the advance payments.
6.
You are required to include amounts in income under section 965 or you have a net tax liability under section 965 that you are paying in installments under section 965(h) or deferred by making an election under section 965(i).
7.
You purchased a new or used clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the time of sale by transferring the credit to the dealer. See Form 8936 and Schedule A (Form 8936).
Line Instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR
Introduction
Also see the instructions for Schedule 1 through Schedule 3 that follow the Form 1040 and 1040-SR instructions.
What form to file.
Everyone can file Form 1040. Form 1040-SR is available to you if you were born before January 2, 1960.
Fiscal year filers.
If you are a fiscal year filer using a tax year other than January 1 through December 31, 2024, enter the beginning and ending months of your fiscal year in the entry space provided at the top of page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Write-in information.
If you need to write a word, code, and/or dollar amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR to explain an item of income or deduction, but don't have enough space to enter the word, code, and/or dollar amount, you can put an asterisk next to the applicable line number and put a footnote at the bottom of page 2 of your tax return indicating the line number and the word, code, and/or dollar amount you need to enter.
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code.
Name and Address
Print or type the information in the spaces provided. If you are married filing a separate return, enter your spouse's name in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes instead of below your name. If you are currently incarcerated, enter your inmate identifying number near your last name.
If you filed a joint return for 2023 and you are filing a joint return for 2024 with the same spouse, be sure to enter your names and SSNs in the same order as on your 2023 return.
Name Change
If you changed your name because of marriage, divorce, etc., be sure to report the change to the Social Security Administration (SSA) before filing your return. This prevents delays in processing your return and issuing refunds. It also safeguards your future social security benefits.
Address Change
If you plan to move after filing your return, use Form 8822 to notify the IRS of your new address.
P.O. Box
Enter your box number only if your post office doesn't deliver mail to your home.
Foreign Address
If you have a foreign address, enter the city name on the appropriate line. Don’t enter any other information on that line, but also complete the spaces below that line. Don’t abbreviate the country name. Follow the country’s practice for entering the postal code and the name of the province, county, or state.
Death of a Taxpayer
If a taxpayer died before filing a return for 2024, the taxpayer's spouse or personal representative may have to file and sign a return for that taxpayer. A personal representative can be an executor, administrator, or anyone who is in charge of the deceased taxpayer's property. If the deceased taxpayer didn't have to file a return but had tax withheld, a return must be filed to get a refund. The person who files the return must enter “Deceased,” the deceased taxpayer's name, and the date of death across the top of the return. If this information isn't provided, it may delay the processing of the return.
If your spouse died in 2024 and you didn't remarry in 2024, or if your spouse died in 2025 before filing a return for 2024, you can file a joint return. A joint return should show your spouse's 2024 income before death and your income for all of 2024. Enter “Filing as surviving spouse” in the area where you sign the return. If someone else is the personal representative, they must also sign.
All payers of income, including financial institutions, should be promptly notified of the taxpayer's death. This will ensure the proper reporting of income earned by the taxpayer's estate or heirs. A deceased taxpayer's social security number shouldn't be used for tax years after the year of death, except for estate tax return purposes.
Social Security Number (SSN)
An incorrect or missing SSN can increase your tax, reduce your refund, or delay your refund. To apply for an SSN, fill in Form SS-5 and return it, along with the appropriate evidence documents, to the Social Security Administration (SSA). You can get Form SS-5 online at SSA.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf, from your local SSA office, or by calling the SSA at 800-772-1213. It usually takes about 2 weeks to get an SSN once the SSA has all the evidence and information it needs.
Check that both the name and SSN on your Forms 1040 or 1040-SR, W-2, and 1099 agree with your social security card. If they don’t, certain deductions and credits on Form 1040 or 1040-SR may be reduced or disallowed and you may not receive credit for your social security earnings. If your Form W-2 shows an incorrect SSN or name, notify your employer or the form-issuing agent as soon as possible to make sure your earnings are credited to your social security record. If the name or SSN on your social security card is incorrect, call the SSA.
Once you are issued an SSN, use it to file your tax return. Use your SSN to file your tax return even if your SSN does not authorize employment or if you have been issued an SSN that authorizes employment and you lose your employment authorization. An ITIN won’t be issued to you once you have been issued an SSN. If you received your SSN after previously using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN. Use your SSN instead.
IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) for Aliens
If you are a nonresident or resident alien and you don’t have and aren’t eligible to get an SSN, you must apply for an ITIN. It takes about 7 weeks to get an ITIN.
If you already have an ITIN, enter it wherever your SSN is requested on your tax return.
Some ITINs must be renewed. If you haven't used your ITIN on a federal tax return at least once for tax years 2021, 2022, or 2023, it has expired and must be renewed if you need to file a federal tax return. You don't need to renew your ITIN if you don't need to file a federal tax return. You can find more information at IRS.gov/ITIN.
An ITIN is for tax use only. It doesn't entitle you to social security benefits or change your employment or immigration status under U.S. law.
For more information on ITINs, including application, expiration, and renewal, see Form W-7 and its instructions.
If you receive an SSN after previously using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN. Use your SSN instead. Visit a local IRS office or write a letter to the IRS explaining that you now have an SSN and want all your tax records combined under your SSN. Details about what to include with the letter and where to mail it are at IRS.gov/ITIN.
Nonresident Alien Spouse
If your spouse is a nonresident alien, your spouse must have either an SSN or an ITIN if:
You file a joint return, or
Your spouse is filing a separate return.
Presidential Election Campaign Fund
This fund helps pay for Presidential election campaigns. The fund reduces candidates' dependence on large contributions from individuals and groups and places candidates on an equal financial footing in the general election. The fund also helps pay for pediatric medical research. If you want $3 to go to this fund, check the box. If you are filing a joint return, your spouse can also have $3 go to the fund. If you check a box, your tax or refund won't change.
Filing Status
Check only the filing status that applies to you. The ones that will usually give you the lowest tax are listed last.
Married filing separately.
Single.
Head of household.
Married filing jointly.
Qualifying surviving spouse.
For information about marital status, see Pub. 501.
More than one filing status can apply to you. You can choose the one for which you qualify that will give you the lowest tax.
Single
You can check the “Single” box in the Filing Status section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any of the following was true on December 31, 2024.
You were never married.
You were legally separated according to your state law under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance. But if, at the end of 2024, your divorce wasn't final (an interlocutory decree), you are considered married and can't check the box.
You were widowed before January 1, 2024, and didn't remarry before the end of 2024. But if you have a child, you may be able to use the qualifying surviving spouse filing status. See the instructions for Qualifying Surviving Spouse, later.
Married Filing Jointly
You can check the “Married filing jointly” box in the Filing Status section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any of the following apply.
You were married at the end of 2024, even if you didn't live with your spouse at the end of 2024.
Your spouse died in 2024 and you didn't remarry in 2024.
You were married at the end of 2024 and your spouse died in 2025 before filing a 2024 return.
A married couple filing jointly report their combined income and deduct their combined allowable expenses on one return. They can file a joint return even if only one had income or if they didn't live together all year. However, both persons must sign the return. Once you file a joint return, you can't choose to file separate returns for that year after the due date of the return.
Joint and several tax liability.
If you file a joint return, both you and your spouse are generally responsible for the tax and interest or penalties due on the return. This means that if one spouse doesn't pay the tax due, the other may have to. Or, if one spouse doesn't report the correct tax, both spouses may be responsible for any additional taxes assessed by the IRS. You may want to file separately if:
You believe your spouse isn't reporting all of their income, or
You don’t want to be responsible for any taxes due if your spouse doesn't have enough tax withheld or doesn't pay enough estimated tax.
See the instructions for Married Filing Separately. Also see Innocent Spouse Relief under General Information, later.
Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
Generally, a married couple can't file a joint return if either spouse is a nonresident alien at any time during the year. However, you and your spouse can choose to be treated as U.S. residents for the entire year and file a joint return if one spouse was a nonresident alien at the end of the taxable year (the nonresident spouse) and the other was a U.S. citizen or resident at the end of the taxable year. This choice remains in effect in subsequent years until terminated. You and your spouse can also choose to file as U.S. residents for the entire year if both of you are U.S. citizens or residents at the end of the year and either (or both) of you were a nonresident at the beginning of the year (the dual-status spouse(s)). You can only make this choice for 1 year, and it does not apply to any future years.
If you and your spouse are making either of these choices to be treated as U.S. residents for 2024, check the box in the Filing Status section and enter the name of the nonresident spouse or dual-status spouse(s) (whichever applies to you) in the entry space. Also check the box and enter their name if you and your nonresident spouse made the choice to be treated as residents in a prior year and the choice remains in effect.
To make either choice for 2024, you and your spouse must file a joint return and attach a statement, signed by both spouses, to your return. To find out what information must be included in the statement, as well as more information on these choices, see Nonresident Spouse Treated as a Resident for nonresident aliens and Choosing Resident Alien Status for dual-status aliens in Pub. 519.
Married Filing Separately
Check the “Married filing separately” box in the Filing Status section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if you are married, at the end of 2024, and file a separate return. Enter your spouse’s name in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes. Be sure to enter your spouse’s SSN or ITIN in the space for spouse’s SSN on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If your spouse doesn’t have and isn’t required to have an SSN or ITIN, enter “NRA” in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes.
For electronic filing, enter the spouse's name or “NRA” if the spouse doesn’t have an SSN or ITIN in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes.
If you are married and file a separate return, you generally report only your own income, deductions, and credits. Generally, you are responsible only for the tax on your own income. Different rules apply to people in community property states; see Pub. 555.
However, you will usually pay more tax than if you use another filing status for which you qualify. Also, if you file a separate return, you can't take the student loan interest deduction or the education credits, and you will only be able to take the earned income credit and child and dependent care credit in very limited circumstances. You also can't take the standard deduction if your spouse itemizes deductions. For situations when you might want to file separately, see Joint and several tax liability, earlier.
You may be able to file as head of household if you had a child living with you and you lived apart from your spouse during the last 6 months of 2024. See Married persons who live apart, later.
Head of Household
You can check the “Head of household” box in the Filing Status section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if you are unmarried and provide a home for certain other persons. You are considered unmarried for this purpose if any of the following applies.
You were legally separated according to your state law under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance at the end of 2024. But if, at the end of 2024, your divorce wasn't final (an interlocutory decree), you are considered married.
You are married but lived apart from your spouse for the last 6 months of 2024 and you meet the other rules under Married persons who live apart, later.
You are married and your spouse was a nonresident alien at any time during the year and the election to treat the alien spouse as a resident alien is not made. See Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens, earlier.
Check the “Head of household” box only if you are unmarried (or considered unmarried) and either Test 1 or Test 2 applies.
Test 1.
You paid over half the cost of keeping up a home that was the main home for all of 2024 of your parent whom you can claim as a dependent, except under a multiple support agreement (see Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later). Your parent didn't have to live with you.
Test 2.
You paid over half the cost of keeping up a home in which you lived and in which one of the following also lived for more than half of the year (if half or less, see Exception to time lived with you, later).
Any person whom you can claim as a dependent. But don’t include:
Your child whom you claim as your dependent because of the rule for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later;
Any person who is your dependent only because the person lived with you for all of 2024; or
Any person you claimed as a dependent under a multiple support agreement. See Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
Your unmarried qualifying child who isn't your dependent.
Your married qualifying child who isn't your dependent only because you can be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2024 return.
Your qualifying child who, even though you are the custodial parent, isn't your dependent because of the rule for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
If the child isn't claimed as your dependent, enter the child's name in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes. If you don’t enter the name, it will take us longer to process your return.
Qualifying child.
To find out if someone is your qualifying child, see Step 1 under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
Dependent.
To find out if someone is your dependent, see Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
The dependents you claim are those you list by name and SSN in the Dependents section on Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Exception to time lived with you.
Temporary absences by you or the other person for special circumstances, such as school, vacation, business, medical care, military service, or detention in a juvenile facility, count as time lived in the home. Also see Kidnapped child, later, under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, if applicable.
If the person for whom you kept up a home was born or died in 2024, you still may be able to file as head of household. If the person is your qualifying child, the child must have lived with you for more than half the part of the year the child was alive. If the person is anyone else, see Pub. 501. Similarly, if you adopted the person for whom you kept up a home in 2024, the person was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2024, or the person was an eligible foster child placed with you during 2024, the person is considered to have lived with you for more than half of 2024 if your main home was this person’s main home for more than half the time since the person was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Keeping up a home.
To find out what is included in the cost of keeping up a home, see Pub. 501.
Married persons who live apart.
Even if you weren’t divorced or legally separated at the end of 2024, you are considered unmarried if all of the following apply.
You lived apart from your spouse for the last 6 months of 2024. Temporary absences for special circumstances, such as for business, medical care, school, or military service, count as time lived in the home.
You file a separate return from your spouse.
You paid over half the cost of keeping up your home for 2024.
Your home was the main home of your child, stepchild, or foster child for more than half of 2024 (if half or less, see Exception to time lived with you, earlier).
You can claim this child as your dependent or could claim the child except that the child's other parent can claim the child under the rule for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
Adopted child.
An adopted child is always treated as your own child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with you for legal adoption.
Foster child.
A foster child is any child placed with you by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Qualifying Surviving Spouse
You can check the “Qualifying surviving spouse” box in the Filing Status section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and use joint return tax rates for 2024 if all of the following apply.
Your spouse died in 2022 or 2023 and you didn't remarry before the end of 2024.
You have a child or stepchild (not a foster child) whom you can claim as a dependent or could claim as a dependent except that, for 2024:
The child had gross income of $5,050 or more,
The child filed a joint return, or
You could be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return.
If the child isn’t claimed as your dependent, enter the child’s name in the entry space below the filing status checkboxes. If you don’t enter the name, it will take us longer to process your return.
This child lived in your home for all of 2024. If the child didn't live with you for the required time, see Exception to time lived with you, later.
You paid over half the cost of keeping up your home.
You could have filed a joint return with your spouse the year your spouse died, even if you didn't actually do so.
If your spouse died in 2024, you can't file as qualifying surviving spouse. Instead, see the instructions for Married Filing Jointly, earlier.
Adopted child.
An adopted child is always treated as your own child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with you for legal adoption.
Dependent.
To find out if someone is your dependent, see Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, later.
The dependents you claim are those you list by name and SSN in the Dependents section on Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Exception to time lived with you.
Temporary absences by you or the child for special circumstances, such as school, vacation, business, medical care, military service, or detention in a juvenile facility, count as time lived in the home. Also see Kidnapped child, later, under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, if applicable.
A child is considered to have lived with you for all of 2024 if the child was born or died in 2024 and your home was the child's home for the entire time the child was alive. Similarly, if you adopted the child in 2024, or the child was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2024, the child is considered to have lived with you for all of 2024 if your main home was this child's main home for the entire time since the child was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Keeping up a home.
To find out what is included in the cost of keeping up a home, see Pub. 501.
Digital Assets
Digital assets are any digital representations of value that are recorded on a cryptographically secured distributed ledger or any similar technology. For example, digital assets include non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and virtual currencies, such as cryptocurrencies and stablecoins. If a particular asset has the characteristics of a digital asset, it will be treated as a digital asset for federal income tax purposes.
Check the “Yes” box next to the question on digital assets on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR if at any time during 2024, you (a) received (as a reward, award, or payment for property or services); or (b) sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of a digital asset (or any financial interest in any digital asset).
For example, check “Yes” if at any time during 2024 you:
Received digital assets as payment for property or services provided;
Received digital assets as a result of a reward or award;
Received new digital assets as a result of mining, staking, and similar activities;
Received digital assets as a result of a hard fork;
Disposed of digital assets in exchange for property or services;
Disposed of a digital asset in exchange or trade for another digital asset;
Sold a digital asset; or
Otherwise disposed of any other financial interest in a digital asset.
You have a financial interest in a digital asset if you are the owner of record of a digital asset, or have an ownership stake in an account that holds one or more digital assets, including the rights and obligations to acquire a financial interest, or you own a wallet that holds digital assets.
The following actions or transactions in 2024, alone, generally don’t require you to check “Yes”:
Holding a digital asset in a wallet or account;
Transferring a digital asset from one wallet or account you own or control to another wallet or account that you own or control; or
Purchasing digital assets using U.S. or other real currency, including through the use of electronic platforms such as PayPal and Venmo.
Do not leave the question unanswered. You must answer “Yes” or “No” by checking the appropriate box. For more information, go to IRS.gov/VirtualCurrencyFAQs.
How To Report Digital Asset Transactions
If, in 2024, you disposed of any digital asset, which you held as a capital asset, through a sale, trade, exchange, payment, or other transfer, check “Yes” and use Form 8949 to calculate your capital gain or loss and report that gain or loss on Schedule D (Form 1040).
If you received any digital asset as compensation for services or disposed of any digital asset that you held for sale to customers in a trade or business, you must report the income as you would report other income of the same type (for example, W-2 wages on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, or inventory or services on Schedule C).
If you received ordinary income in connection with digital assets that isn't reported elsewhere on your return, see the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8v.
If you disposed of any digital asset by gift, you may be required to file Form 709. See Who Must File and Transfers Subject to the Gift Tax in the Instructions for Form 709 for more information.
Standard Deduction
If you are filing Form 1040-SR, you can find a Standard Deduction Chart on the last page of that form. Don’t file the Standard Deduction Chart with your return.
Single and Married Filing Jointly
If you or your spouse (if you are married and filing a joint return) can be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return, check the appropriate box in the Standard Deduction section.
If you are married and file a joint return, you can be claimed as a dependent on someone else's return if you file the joint return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid.
If you were a dual-status alien, check the “Spouse itemizes on a separate return or you were a dual-status alien” box. If you were a dual-status alien and you file a joint return with your spouse who was a U.S. citizen or resident alien at the end of 2024 and you and your spouse agree to be taxed on your combined worldwide income, don’t check the box. See Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens, earlier, for more information on making the election for you and your spouse to be taxed on your combined worldwide income.
Age/Blindness
If you or your spouse (if you are married and filing a joint return) were born before January 2, 1960, or were blind at the end of 2024, check the appropriate boxes on the line labeled “Age/Blindness.”
Don’t check any boxes for your spouse if your filing status is head of household.
Death of spouse in 2024.
If your spouse was born before January 2, 1960, but died in 2024 before reaching age 65, don’t check the box that says “Spouse was born before January 2, 1960.”
A person is considered to reach age 65 on the day before the person’s 65th birthday.
Example.
Your spouse was born on February 14, 1959, and died on February 13, 2024. Your spouse is considered age 65 at the time of death. Check the appropriate box for your spouse. However, if your spouse died on February 12, 2024, your spouse isn't considered age 65. Don’t check the box.
Death of taxpayer in 2024.
If you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2024, see Pub. 501 before completing the standard deduction information.
Blindness
If you weren’t totally blind as of December 31, 2024, you must get a statement certified by your eye doctor (ophthalmologist or optometrist) that:
You can't see better than 20/200 in your better eye with glasses or contact lenses, or
Your field of vision is 20 degrees or less.
If your eye condition isn't likely to improve beyond the conditions listed above, you can get a statement certified by your eye doctor (ophthalmologist or optometrist) to this effect instead. You must keep the statement for your records.
If you receive a notice or letter but you would prefer to have it in Braille or large print, you can use Form 9000, Alternative Media Preference, to request notices in an alternative format including Braille, large print, audio, or electronic. You can attach Form 9000 to your return or mail it separately.
You can download, or view online, tax forms and publications in a variety of formats including text-only, Braille ready files, browser-friendly HTML (other than tax forms), accessible PDF, and large print.
Married Filing Separately
If your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse itemizes deductions on their return, check the “Spouse itemizes on a separate return or you were a dual-status alien” box.
If your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse was born before January 2, 1960, or was blind at the end of 2024, you can check the appropriate box(es) on the line labeled “Age/Blindness” if your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed as a dependent on another person's return.
Who Qualifies as Your Dependent
Dependents, Qualifying Child for Child Tax Credit, and Credit for Other Dependents
Follow the steps below to find out if a person qualifies as your dependent and to find out if your dependent qualifies you to take the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents. If you have more than four dependents, check the box under Dependents on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and include a statement showing the information required in columns (1) through (4).
The dependents you claim are those you list by name and SSN in the Dependents section on Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Before you begin.
See the definition of Social security number, later. If you want to claim the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents, you (and your spouse if filing jointly) must have an SSN or ITIN issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions). If an ITIN is applied for on or before the due date of a 2024 return (including extensions) and the IRS issues an ITIN as a result of the application, the IRS will consider the ITIN as issued on or before the due date of the return.
Step 1. Do You Have a Qualifying Child?
A qualifying child is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your grandchild, niece, or nephew)
was ...
Under age 19 at the end of 2024 and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Under age 24 at the end of 2024, a student (defined later), and younger than you (or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Any age and permanently and totally disabled (defined later)
Who didn't provide over half of their own support for 2024 (see Pub. 501)
Who isn't filing a joint return for 2024
or is filing a joint return for 2024 only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid (see Pub. 501 for details and examples)
Who lived with you for more than half of 2024. If the child didn't live with you for the required time, see Exception to time lived with you, later.
If the child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person (other than your spouse if filing jointly) for 2024, see Qualifying child of more than one person, later.
1. Do you have a child who meets the conditions to be your qualifying child?
[ ]
Yes.
Go to Step 2.
[ ]
No.
Go to Step 4.
Step 2. Is Your Qualifying Child Your Dependent?
1. Was the child a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, U.S. resident alien, or a resident of Canada or Mexico? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or U.S. resident alien. If the child was adopted, see Exception to citizen test, later.)
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can't claim this child as a dependent.
2. Was the child married?
[ ]
Yes.
See Married person, later.
[ ]
No.
3. Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
You can claim this child as a dependent. Complete columns (1) through (3) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR for this child. Then, go to Step 3.
[ ]
No.
4. Could you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2024 tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their 2024 tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
[ ]
Yes.
You can't claim any dependents. Complete the rest of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and any applicable schedules.
[ ]
No.
You can claim this child as a dependent. Complete columns (1) through (3) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR for this child. Then, go to Step 3.
Step 3. Does Your Qualifying Child Qualify You for the Child Tax Credit or Credit for Other Dependents?
1. Did the child have an SSN, ITIN, or adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN) issued on or before the due date of your return (including extensions)? (Answer “Yes” if you are applying for an ITIN or ATIN for the child on or before the due date of your return (including extensions).)
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can’t claim the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents for this child.
2. Was the child a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. resident alien? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or U.S. resident alien. If the child was adopted, see Exception to citizen test, later.)
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can’t claim the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents for this child.
3. Was the child under age 17 at the end of 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can claim the credit for other dependents for this child. Check the “Credit for other dependents” box in column (4) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR for this person.
4. Did this child have an SSN valid for employment issued before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions)? (See Social Security Number, later.)
[ ]
Yes.
You can claim the child tax credit for this person. Check the “Child tax credit” box in column (4) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR for this person.
[ ]
No.
You can claim the credit for other dependents for this child. Check the “Credit for other dependents” box in column (4) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR for this person.
Step 4. Is Your Qualifying Relative Your Dependent?
A qualifying relative is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your grandchild)
or
Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, or a son or daughter of any of them (for example, your niece or nephew)
or
Father, mother, or an ancestor or sibling of either of them (for example, your grandmother, grandfather, aunt, or uncle)
or
Stepbrother, stepsister, stepfather, stepmother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law
or
Any other person (other than your spouse) who lived with you all year as a member of your household if your relationship didn't violate local law. If the person didn't live with you for the required time, see Exception to time lived with you, later.
Who wasn't a qualifying child (see Step 1) of any taxpayer for 2024. For this purpose, a person isn't a taxpayer if the person isn't required to file a U.S. income tax return and either doesn't file such a return or files only to get a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid. See Pub. 501 for details and examples.
Who had gross income of less than $5,050 in 2024. If the person was permanently and totally disabled, see Exception to gross income test, later.
For whom you provided over half of the person’s support in 2024. But see Children of divorced or separated parents, Multiple support agreements, and Kidnapped child, later.
1. Does any person meet the conditions to be your qualifying relative?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
2. Was your qualifying relative a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, U.S. resident alien, or a resident of Canada or Mexico? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or U.S. resident alien. If your qualifying relative was adopted, see Exception to citizen test, later.)
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can't claim this person as a dependent.
3. Was your qualifying relative married?
[ ]
Yes.
See Married person, later.
[ ]
No.
4. Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
You can claim this person as a dependent. Complete columns (1) through (3) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR. Then, go to Step 5.
[ ]
No.
5. Could you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2024 tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their 2024 tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
[ ]
Yes.
You can't claim any dependents. Complete the rest of Form 1040 or 1040-SR and any applicable schedules.
[ ]
No.
You can claim this person as a dependent. Complete columns (1) through (3) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR. Then, go to Step 5.
Step 5. Does Your Qualifying Relative Qualify You for the Credit for Other Dependents?
1. Did your qualifying relative have an SSN, ITIN, or ATIN issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions)? (Answer “Yes” if you are applying for an ITIN or ATIN for the qualifying relative on or before the return due date (including extensions).)
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can’t claim the credit for other dependents for this qualifying relative.
2. Was your qualifying relative a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. resident alien? (See Pub. 519 for the definition of a U.S. national or a U.S. resident alien. If your qualifying relative was adopted, see Exception to citizen test, later.)
[ ]
Yes.
You can claim the credit for other dependents for this dependent. Check the “Credit for other dependents” box in column (4) of the Dependents section on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR for this person.
[ ]
No.
You can’t claim the credit for other dependents for this qualifying relative.
Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child.
An adopted child is always treated as your own child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with you for legal adoption.
Adoption taxpayer identification numbers (ATINs).
If you have a dependent who was placed with you for legal adoption and you don’t know the dependent’s SSN, you must get an ATIN for the dependent from the IRS. See Form W-7A for details. If the dependent isn't a U.S. citizen or resident alien, apply for an ITIN instead using Form W-7.
Children of divorced or separated parents.
A child will be treated as the qualifying child or qualifying relative of the child’s noncustodial parent (defined later) if all of the following conditions apply.
The parents are divorced, legally separated, separated under a written separation agreement, or lived apart at all times during the last 6 months of 2024 (whether or not they are or were married).
The child received over half of the child’s support for 2024 from the parents (and the rules on Multiple support agreements, later, don’t apply). Support of a child received from a parent's spouse is treated as provided by the parent.
The child is in custody of one or both of the parents for more than half of 2024.
Either of the following applies.
The custodial parent signs Form 8332 or a substantially similar statement that they won't claim the child as a dependent for 2024, and the noncustodial parent includes a copy of the form or statement with their return. If the divorce decree or separation agreement went into effect after 1984 and before 2009, the noncustodial parent may be able to include certain pages from the decree or agreement instead of Form 8332. See Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement and Post-2008 decree or agreement.
A pre-1985 decree of divorce or separate maintenance or written separation agreement between the parents provides that the noncustodial parent can claim the child as a dependent, and the noncustodial parent provides at least $600 for support of the child during 2024.
If conditions (1) through (4) apply, only the noncustodial parent can claim the child for purposes of the child tax credits and credit for other dependents (lines 19 and 28). However, this doesn't allow the noncustodial parent to claim head of household filing status, the credit for child and dependent care expenses, the exclusion for dependent care benefits, or the earned income credit. The custodial parent or another taxpayer, if eligible, can claim the child for the earned income credit and these other benefits. See Pub. 501 for details.
Custodial and noncustodial parents.
The custodial parent is the parent with whom the child lived for the greater number of nights in 2024. The noncustodial parent is the other parent. If the child was with each parent for an equal number of nights, the custodial parent is the parent with the higher adjusted gross income. See Pub. 501 for an exception for a parent who works at night, rules for a child who is emancipated under state law, and other details.
Post-1984 and pre-2009 decree or agreement.
The decree or agreement must state all three of the following.
The noncustodial parent can claim the child as a dependent without regard to any condition, such as payment of support.
The other parent won't claim the child as a dependent.
The years for which the claim is released.
The noncustodial parent must include all of the following pages from the decree or agreement.
Cover page (include the other parent's SSN on that page).
The pages that include all the information identified in (1) through (3) above.
Signature page with the other parent's signature and date of agreement.
You must include the required information even if you filed it with your return in an earlier year.
Post-2008 decree or agreement.
If the divorce decree or separation agreement went into effect after 2008, the noncustodial parent can't include pages from the decree or agreement instead of Form 8332. The custodial parent must sign either Form 8332 or a substantially similar statement the only purpose of which is to release the custodial parent's claim to certain tax benefits for a child, and the noncustodial parent must include a copy with their return. The form or statement must release the custodial parent's claim to the child without any conditions. For example, the release must not depend on the noncustodial parent paying support.
Release of certain tax benefits revoked.
A custodial parent who has revoked their previous release of a claim to certain tax benefits for a child must include a copy of the revocation with their return. For details, see Form 8332.
Exception to citizen test.
If you are a U.S. citizen or U.S. national and your adopted child lived with you all year as a member of your household, that child meets the requirement to be a U.S. citizen in Step 2, question 1; Step 3, question 2; Step 4, question 2; and Step 5, question 2.
Exception to gross income test.
If your relative (including a person who lived with you all year as a member of your household) is permanently and totally disabled (defined later), certain income for services performed at a sheltered workshop may be excluded for this test. For details, see Pub. 501.
Exception to time lived with you.
Temporary absences by you or the other person for special circumstances, such as school, vacation, business, medical care, military service, or detention in a juvenile facility, count as time the person lived with you. Also see Children of divorced or separated parents, earlier, or Kidnapped child, later.
If the person meets all other requirements to be your qualifying child but was born or died in 2024, the person is considered to have lived with you for more than half of 2024 if your home was this person's home for more than half the time the person was alive in 2024. If the person meets all other requirements to be your qualifying child but you adopted the person in 2024, the person was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2024, or the person was an eligible foster child placed with you during 2024, the person is considered to have lived with you for more than half of 2024 if your main home was this person's main home for more than half the time since the person was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Any other person is considered to have lived with you for all of 2024 if the person was born or died in 2024 and your home was this person's home for the entire time the person was alive in 2024 or if you adopted the person in 2024, the person was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2024, or the person was an eligible foster child placed with you during 2024 and your main home was the person's main home for the entire time since the person was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Foster child.
A foster child is any child placed with you by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Kidnapped child.
If your child is presumed by law enforcement authorities to have been kidnapped by someone who isn't a family member, you may be able to take the child into account in determining your eligibility for head of household or qualifying surviving spouse filing status, the child tax credit, the credit for other dependents, and the earned income credit (EIC). For details, see Pub. 501 (Pub. 596 for the EIC).
Married person.
If the person is married and files a joint return, you can't claim that person as your dependent. However, if the person is married but doesn't file a joint return or files a joint return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, you may be able to claim that person as a dependent. (See Pub. 501 for details and examples.) In that case, go to Step 2, question 3 (for a qualifying child), or Step 4, question 4 (for a qualifying relative).
Multiple support agreements.
If no one person contributed over half of the support of your relative (or a person who lived with you all year as a member of your household) but you and another person(s) provided more than half of your relative's support, special rules may apply that would treat you as having provided over half of the support. For details, see Pub. 501.
Permanently and totally disabled.
A person is permanently and totally disabled if, at any time in 2024, the person can't engage in any substantial gainful activity because of a physical or mental condition and a doctor has determined that this condition has lasted or can be expected to last continuously for at least a year or can be expected to lead to death.
Public assistance payments.
If you received payments under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program or other public assistance program and you used the money to support another person, see Pub. 501.
Qualifying child of more than one person.
Even if a child meets the conditions to be the qualifying child of more than one person, only one person can claim the child as a qualifying child for all of the following tax benefits, unless the special rule for Children of divorced or separated parents, described earlier, applies.
Child tax credit and credit for other dependents (line 19) and additional child tax credit (line 28).
Head of household filing status.
Credit for child and dependent care expenses (Schedule 3, line 2).
Exclusion for dependent care benefits (Form 2441, Part III).
Earned income credit (line 27).
No other person can take any of the five tax benefits just listed based on the qualifying child. If you and any other person can claim the child as a qualifying child, the following rules apply. For purposes of these rules, the term "parent" means a biological or adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn't include a stepparent or foster parent unless that person has adopted the individual.
If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the parent.
If the parents file a joint return together and can claim the child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the parents.
If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both parents claim the child as a qualifying child, the IRS will treat the child as the qualifying child of the parent with whom the child lived for the longer period of time in 2024. If the child lived with each parent for the same amount of time, the IRS will treat the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the higher adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2024.
If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2024.
If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no parent does so claim the child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2024, but only if that person's AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any parent of the child who can claim the child.
Example.
Your child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child for both you and your parent. Your child doesn't meet the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person, including your child’s other parent. Under the rules just described, you can claim your child as a qualifying child for all of the five tax benefits just listed for which you otherwise qualify. Your parent can't claim any of those five tax benefits based on your child. However, if your parent’s AGI is higher than yours and you do not claim your child as a qualifying child, your child is the qualifying child of your parent.
For more details and examples, see Pub. 501.
If you will be claiming the child as a qualifying child, go to Step 2. Otherwise, stop; you can't claim any benefits based on this child.
Social security number.
You must enter each dependent's social security number (SSN). Be sure the name and SSN entered agree with the dependent's social security card. Otherwise, at the time we process your return, we may reduce or disallow any tax benefits (such as the child tax credit) based on that dependent. If the name or SSN on the dependent's social security card isn't correct or you need to get an SSN for your dependent, contact the Social Security Administration (SSA). See Social Security Number (SSN), earlier. If your dependent won't have a number by the date your return is due, see What if You Can't File on Time? earlier.
For the child tax credit, your child must have the required SSN. The required SSN is one that is valid for employment and that is issued by the SSA before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions). If your child was a U.S. citizen when the child received the SSN, the SSN is valid for employment. If “Not Valid for Employment” is printed on your child’s social security card and your child’s immigration status has changed so that your child is now a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, ask the SSA for a new social security card without the legend. However, if “Valid for Work Only With DHS Authorization” is printed on your child’s social security card, your child has the required SSN only as long as the DHS authorization is valid.
If your dependent child was born and died in 2024 and you do not have an SSN for the child, enter “Died” in column (2) of the Dependents section and include a copy of the child's birth certificate, death certificate, or hospital records. The document must show the child was born alive.
If you, or your spouse if filing jointly, didn't have an SSN (or ITIN) issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions), you can't claim the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents on your original or an amended 2024 return.
If you apply for an ITIN on or before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions) and the IRS issues you an ITIN as a result of the application, the IRS will consider your ITIN as issued on or before the due date of your return.
Student.
A student is a child who during any part of 5 calendar months of 2024 was enrolled as a full-time student at a school or took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or a state, county, or local government agency. A school includes a technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school offering courses only through the Internet.
Income
Generally, you must report all income except income that is exempt from tax by law. For details, see the following instructions and the Schedule 1 instructions, especially the instructions for lines 1 through 7 and Schedule 1, lines 1 through 8z. Also see Pub. 525.
Forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) Loans
You don’t need to include the amount of a forgiven PPP Loan in your income. Although you don’t need to report the income from the forgiveness of your PPP Loan on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, you do need to report certain information related to your PPP Loan as an attachment to your tax return. For more information, see Pub. 525.
Foreign-Source Income
You must report unearned income, such as interest, dividends, and pensions, from sources outside the United States unless exempt by law or a tax treaty. You must also report earned income, such as wages and tips, from sources outside the United States.
If you worked abroad, you may be able to exclude part or all of your foreign earned income. For details, see Pub. 54 and Form 2555.
Foreign retirement plans.
If you were a beneficiary of a foreign retirement plan, you may have to report the undistributed income earned in your plan. However, if you were the beneficiary of a Canadian registered retirement plan, see Rev. Proc. 2014-55, 2014-44 I.R.B. 753, available at IRS.gov/irb/2014-44_IRB#RP-2014-55, to find out if you can elect to defer tax on the undistributed income.
Report distributions from foreign pension plans on lines 5a and 5b.
Foreign accounts and trusts.
You must complete Part III of Schedule B if you:
Had a foreign account; or
Received a distribution from, or were a grantor of, or a transferor to, a foreign trust.
You may also have to file Form 3520.
Foreign financial assets.
If you had foreign financial assets in 2024, you may have to file Form 8938. See Form 8938 and its instructions.
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Cases
If you are a debtor in a chapter 11 bankruptcy case, income taxable to the bankruptcy estate and reported on the estate's income tax return includes:
Earnings from services you performed after the beginning of the case (both wages and self-employment income); and
Income from property described in section 541 of title 11 of the U.S. Code that you either owned when the case began or that you acquired after the case began and before the case was closed, dismissed, or converted to a case under a different chapter.
Because this income is taxable to the estate, don’t include this income on your own individual income tax return. The only exception is for purposes of figuring your self-employment tax. For that purpose, you must take into account all your self-employment income for the year from services performed both before and after the beginning of the case. Also, you (or the trustee if one is appointed) must allocate between you and the bankruptcy estate the wages, salary, or other compensation and withheld income tax reported to you on Form W-2. A similar allocation is required for income and withheld income tax reported to you on Forms 1099. You must also include a statement that indicates you filed a chapter 11 case and that explains how income and withheld income tax reported to you on Forms W-2 and 1099 are allocated between you and the estate. For more details, including acceptable allocation methods, see Notice 2006-83, 2006-40 I.R.B. 596, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2006-40_IRB#NOT-2006-83.
Community Property States
Community property states include Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. If you and your spouse lived in a community property state, you must usually follow state law to determine what is community income and what is separate income. For details, see Form 8958 and Pub. 555.
Nevada, Washington, and California domestic partners.
A registered domestic partner in Nevada, Washington, or California must generally report half the combined community income of the individual and their domestic partner. See Form 8958 and Pub. 555.
Rounding Off to Whole Dollars
You can round off cents to whole dollars on your return and schedules. If you do round to whole dollars, you must round all amounts. To round, drop amounts under 50 cents and increase amounts from 50 to 99 cents to the next dollar. For example, $1.39 becomes $1 and $2.50 becomes $3.
If you have to add two or more amounts to figure the amount to enter on a line, include cents when adding the amounts and round off only the total.
If you are entering amounts that include cents, make sure to include the decimal point. There is no cents column on the form.
The lines on Forms 1040 and 1040-SR are the same. References to lines in the following instructions refer to the line on either form.
Line 1a
Total Amount From Form(s) W-2, Box 1
Enter the total amount from Form(s) W-2, box 1. If a joint return, also include your spouse's income from Form(s) W-2, box 1.
If you earned wages while you were an inmate in a penal institution, report these amounts on Schedule 1, line 8u. Do not report these wages on line 1a. See the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8u.
If you received a pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a nongovernmental section 457(b) plan and it was reported in box 1 of Form W-2, do not include this amount on Form 1040, line 1a. This amount is reported on Schedule 1, line 8t.
Line 1b
Household Employee Wages Not Reported on Form(s) W-2
Enter the total of your wages received as a household employee that was not reported on Form(s) W-2. An employer isn’t required to provide a Form W-2 to you if they paid you wages of less than $2,700 in 2024. For information on employment taxes for household employees, see Tax Topic 756.
Line 1c
Tip Income Not Reported on Line 1a
Enter the total of your tip income that was not reported on Form 1040, line 1a. This should include any tip income you didn’t report to your employer and any allocated tips shown in box 8 on your Form(s) W-2 unless you can prove that your unreported tips are less than the amount in box 8. Allocated tips aren't included as income in box 1. See Pub. 531 for more details. Also include the value of any noncash tips you received, such as tickets, passes, or other items of value. Although you don’t report these noncash tips to your employer, you must report them on line 1c.
You may owe social security and Medicare or railroad retirement (RRTA) tax on unreported tips. See the instructions for Schedule 2, line 5.
Line 1d
Medicaid Waiver Payments Not Reported on Form(s) W-2, Box 1
Enter your taxable Medicaid waiver payments that were not reported on Form(s) W-2. Also enter the total of your taxable and nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments that were not reported on Form(s) W-2, or not reported in box 1 of Form(s) W-2, if you choose to include nontaxable payments in earned income for purposes of claiming a credit or other tax benefit. If you and your spouse both received nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments during the year, you and your spouse can make different choices about including payments in earned income. See the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8s. If you are a sole proprietor in a business of providing home care services, see the Schedule C instructions for how to report these amounts.
Your nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments may have been reported to you on Form(s) W-2, box 12, with Code II.
If you received nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments, and box 1 of your Form(s) W-2 is blank or has zeros, and you are choosing not to include nontaxable payments in earned income for purposes of claiming a credit, do not attach any of these Form(s) W-2 to your return.
Line 1e
Taxable Dependent Care Benefits From Form 2441, Line 26
Enter the total of your taxable dependent care benefits from Form 2441, line 26. Dependent care benefits should be shown in box 10 of your Form(s) W-2. But first complete Form 2441 to see if you can exclude part or all of the benefits.
Line 1f
Employer-Provided Adoption Benefits From Form 8839, Line 29
Enter the total of your employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839, line 29. Employer-provided adoption benefits should be shown in box 12 of your Form(s) W-2 with code T. But see the Instructions for Form 8839 to find out if you can exclude part or all of the benefits. You may also be able to exclude amounts if you adopted a child with special needs and the adoption became final in 2024.
Line 1g
Wages From Form 8919, Line 6
Enter the total of your wages from Form 8919, line 6.
Line 1h
Other Earned Income
If you received scholarship or fellowship grants that were not reported to you on Form W-2, report these amounts on Schedule 1, line 8r. See the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8r.
The following types of income must be included in the total on line 1h.
Strike or lockout benefits (other than bona fide gifts).
Excess elective deferrals. The amount deferred should be shown in box 12 of your Form W-2, and the “Retirement plan” box in box 13 should be checked. If the total amount you (or your spouse if filing jointly) deferred for 2024 under all plans was more than $23,000 (excluding catch-up contributions, as explained later), include the excess on line 1h. This limit is (a) generally, $16,000 if you have only SIMPLE plans, or (b) $26,000 for section 403(b) plans if you qualify for the 15-year rule in Pub. 571. Although designated Roth contributions are subject to this limit, don’t include the excess attributable to such contributions on line 1h. They are already included as income in box 1 of your Form W-2.
A higher limit of $17,600 may apply to participants in certain SIMPLE plans. A higher limit may also apply to participants in section 457(b) deferred compensation plans for the 3 years before retirement age. Contact your plan administrator for more information.
If you were age 50 or older at the end of 2024, your employer may have allowed an additional deferral (catch-up contributions) of up to $7,500 (generally, $3,500 for section 401(k)(11) and SIMPLE plans). This additional deferral amount isn't subject to the overall limit on elective deferrals.
A higher catch-up contribution limit of $3,850 may apply to participants in certain SIMPLE plans. Contact your plan administrator for more information.
You can't deduct the amount deferred. It isn't included as income in box 1 of your Form W-2.
Disability pensions shown on Form 1099-R if you haven’t reached the minimum retirement age set by your employer. But see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers in the instructions for lines 5a and 5b. Disability pensions received after you reach minimum retirement age and other payments shown on Form 1099-R (other than payments from an IRA) are reported on lines 5a and 5b. Payments from an IRA are reported on lines 4a and 4b.
Corrective distributions from a retirement plan shown on Form 1099-R of excess elective deferrals and excess contributions (plus earnings). But don’t include distributions from an IRA on line 1h. Instead, report distributions from an IRA on lines 4a and 4b.
Line 1i
Nontaxable Combat Pay Election
If you elect to include your nontaxable combat pay in your earned income when figuring the EIC, enter the amount on line 1i. See the instructions for line 27.
Were You a Statutory Employee?
If you were a statutory employee, the “Statutory employee” box in box 13 of your Form W-2 should be checked. Statutory employees include full-time life insurance salespeople and certain agent or commission drivers, certain traveling salespeople, and certain homeworkers. Statutory employees report the amount shown in box 1 of Form W-2 on a Schedule C along with any related business expenses.
Missing or Incorrect Form W-2?
Your employer is required to provide or send Form W-2 to you no later than
January 31, 2025. If you don’t receive it by early February, use Tax Topic 154 to find out what to do. Even if you don’t get a Form W-2, you must still report your earnings. If you lose your Form W-2 or it is incorrect, ask your employer for a new one.
Line 2a
Tax-Exempt Interest
If you received any tax-exempt interest (including any tax-exempt original issue discount (OID)), such as from municipal bonds, each payer should send you a Form 1099-INT or a Form 1099-OID. In general, your tax-exempt stated interest should be shown in box 8 of Form 1099-INT or, for a tax-exempt OID bond, in box 2 of Form 1099-OID, and your tax-exempt OID should be shown in box 11 of Form 1099-OID. Enter the total on line 2a. However, if you acquired a tax-exempt bond at a premium, only report the net amount of tax-exempt interest on line 2a (that is, the excess of the tax-exempt interest received during the year over the amortized bond premium for the year). Also, if you acquired a tax-exempt OID bond at an acquisition premium, only report the net amount of tax-exempt OID on line 2a (that is, the excess of tax-exempt OID for the year over the amortized acquisition premium for the year). See Pub. 550 for more information about OID, bond premium, and acquisition premium.
Also include on line 2a any exempt-interest dividends from a mutual fund or other regulated investment company. This amount should be shown in box 12 of Form 1099-DIV.
Don’t include interest earned on your IRA, health savings account, Archer or Medicare Advantage MSA, or Coverdell education savings account.
Don’t include any amounts related to the forgiveness of PPP Loans on this line.
Line 2b
Taxable Interest
Each payer should send you a Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID. Enter your total taxable interest income on line 2b. But you must fill in and attach Schedule B if the total is over $1,500 or any of the other conditions listed at the beginning of the Schedule B instructions applies to you.
For more details about reporting taxable interest, including market discount on bonds and adjustments for amortizable bond premium or acquisition premium, see Pub. 550.
Interest credited in 2024 on deposits that you couldn't withdraw because of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the financial institution may not have to be included in your 2024 income. For details, see Pub. 550.
If you get a 2024 Form 1099-INT for U.S. savings bond interest that includes amounts you reported before 2024, see Pub. 550.
Line 3a
Qualified Dividends
Enter your total qualified dividends on
line 3a. Qualified dividends are also included in the ordinary dividend total required to be shown on line 3b. Qualified dividends are eligible for a lower tax rate than other ordinary income. Generally, these dividends are shown in box 1b of Form(s) 1099-DIV. See Pub. 550 for the definition of qualified dividends if you received dividends not reported on Form 1099-DIV.
Exception.
Some dividends may be reported as qualified dividends in box 1b of Form 1099-DIV but aren't qualified dividends. These include:
Dividends you received as a nominee. See the Schedule B instructions.
Dividends you received on any share of stock that you held for less than 61 days during the 121-day period that began 60 days before the ex-dividend date. The ex-dividend date is the first date following the declaration of a dividend on which the purchaser of a stock isn't entitled to receive the next dividend payment. When counting the number of days you held the stock, include the day you disposed of the stock but not the day you acquired it. See the examples that follow. Also, when counting the number of days you held the stock, you can't count certain days during which your risk of loss was diminished. See Pub. 550 for more details.
Dividends attributable to periods totaling more than 366 days that you received on any share of preferred stock held for less than 91 days during the 181-day period that began 90 days before the ex-dividend date. When counting the number of days you held the stock, you can't count certain days during which your risk of loss was diminished. See Pub. 550 for more details. Preferred dividends attributable to periods totaling less than 367 days are subject to the 61-day holding period rule just described.
Dividends on any share of stock to the extent that you are under an obligation (including a short sale) to make related payments with respect to positions in substantially similar or related property.
Payments in lieu of dividends, but only if you know or have reason to know that the payments aren't qualified dividends.
Dividends from a corporation that first became a surrogate foreign corporation after December 22, 2017, other than a foreign corporation that is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874(b).
Example 1.
You bought 5,000 shares of XYZ Corp. common stock on July 8. XYZ Corp. paid a cash dividend of 10 cents per share. The ex-dividend date was July 16. Your Form 1099-DIV from XYZ Corp. shows $500 in box 1a (ordinary dividends) and in box 1b (qualified dividends). However, you sold the 5,000 shares on August 11. You held your shares of XYZ Corp. for only 34 days of the 121-day period (from July 9 through August 11). The 121-day period began on May 17 (60 days before the ex-dividend date) and ended on September 14. You have no qualified dividends from XYZ Corp. because you held the XYZ stock for less than 61 days.
Example 2.
The facts are the same as in Example 1 except that you bought the stock on July 15 (the day before the ex-dividend date), and you sold the stock on September 16. You held the stock for 63 days (from July 16 through September 16). The $500 of qualified dividends shown in box 1b of Form 1099-DIV are all qualified dividends because you held the stock for 61 days of the 121-day period (from July 16 through September 14).
Example 3.
You bought 10,000 shares of ABC Mutual Fund common stock on July 8. ABC Mutual Fund paid a cash dividend of 10 cents a share. The ex-dividend date was July 16. The ABC Mutual Fund advises you that the part of the dividend eligible to be treated as qualified dividends equals 2 cents a share. Your Form 1099-DIV from ABC Mutual Fund shows total ordinary dividends of $1,000 and qualified dividends of $200. However, you sold the 10,000 shares on August 11. You have no qualified dividends from ABC Mutual Fund because you held the ABC Mutual Fund stock for less than 61 days.
Use the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or the Schedule D Tax Worksheet, whichever applies, to figure your tax. See the instructions for line 16 for details.
Line 3b
Ordinary Dividends
Each payer should send you a Form 1099-DIV. Enter your total ordinary dividends on line 3b. This amount should be shown in box 1a of Form(s) 1099-DIV.
You must fill in and attach Schedule B if the total is over $1,500 or you received, as a nominee, ordinary dividends that actually belong to someone else.
Nondividend Distributions
Some distributions are a return of your cost (or other basis). They won't be taxed until you recover your cost (or other basis). You must reduce your cost (or other basis) by these distributions. After you get back all of your cost (or other basis), you must report these distributions as capital gains on Form 8949. For details, see Pub. 550.
Dividends on insurance policies are a partial return of the premiums you paid. Don’t report them as dividends. Include them in income on Schedule 1, line 8z, only if they exceed the total of all net premiums you paid for the contract.
Lines 4a and 4b
IRA Distributions
You should receive a Form 1099-R showing the total amount of any distribution from your IRA before income tax or other deductions were withheld. This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R. Unless otherwise noted in the line 4a and 4b instructions, an IRA includes a traditional IRA (which includes a traditional IRA that receives contributions from a simplified employee pension (SEP) arrangement), Roth IRA (which includes a Roth IRA that receives contributions from a SEP arrangement), and a SIMPLE IRA (a SIMPLE IRA may either be a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIMPLE IRA).
Attach Form(s) 1099-R to Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any federal income tax was withheld.
For purposes of these Exceptions, Roth IRA includes a Roth SIMPLE IRA.
Exception 1.
Enter the total distribution on line 4a if you rolled over part or all of the distribution from one:
Roth IRA to another Roth IRA, or
IRA (other than a Roth IRA) to a qualified plan or another IRA (other than a Roth IRA).
Also enter “Rollover” next to line 4b. If the total distribution was rolled over, enter -0- on line 4b. If the total distribution wasn't rolled over, enter the part not rolled over on line 4b unless Exception 2 applies to the part not rolled over. Generally, a rollover must be made within 60 days after the day you received the distribution. For more details on rollovers, see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
If you rolled over the distribution into a qualified plan or you made the rollover in 2025, include a statement explaining what you did.
Exception 2.
If any of the following apply, enter the total distribution on line 4a and see Form 8606 and its instructions to figure the amount to enter on line 4b.
You received a distribution from an IRA (other than a Roth IRA) and you made nondeductible contributions to any of your traditional IRAs for 2024 or an earlier year. If you made nondeductible contributions to these IRAs for 2024, also see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
You received a distribution from a Roth IRA. But if either (a) or (b) below applies, enter -0- on line 4b; you don’t have to see Form 8606 or its instructions.
Distribution code T is shown in box 7 of Form 1099-R and you made a contribution (including a conversion) to a Roth IRA for 2018 or an earlier year.
Distribution code Q is shown in box 7 of Form 1099-R.
You converted part or all of a traditional IRA or traditional SIMPLE IRA to a Roth IRA in 2024.
You had a 2023 or 2024 IRA contribution returned to you, with the related earnings or less any loss, by the due date (including extensions) of your tax return for that year.
You made excess contributions to your IRA for an earlier year and had them returned to you in 2024.
You recharacterized part or all of a contribution to a Roth IRA as a contribution to a traditional IRA, or vice versa.
Exception 3.
If all or part of the distribution is a qualified charitable distribution (QCD), enter the total distribution on line 4a. If the total amount distributed is a QCD, enter -0- on line 4b. If only part of the distribution is a QCD, enter the part that is not a QCD on line 4b unless Exception 2 applies to that part. Enter “QCD” next to line 4b.
A QCD is a distribution made directly by the trustee of your IRA (other than an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to an organization eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions (with certain exceptions). You must have been at least age 70 1/2 when the distribution was made.
Generally, your total QCDs for the year can't be more than $105,000. This includes any amount (up to $53,000) of a one-time QCD to a split-interest entity (SIE). If you file a joint return, the same rules apply to your spouse. The amount of the QCD is limited to the amount that would otherwise be included in your income. If your IRA includes nondeductible contributions, the distribution is first considered to be paid out of otherwise taxable income. If you make the one-time QCD to an SIE, you must attach a statement to your return. See Pub. 590-B for details on QCDs, including the information you must include on the attachment for QCDs to an SIE.
You can't claim a charitable contribution deduction for any QCD not included in your income.
Exception 4.
If all or part of the distribution is a health savings account (HSA) funding distribution (HFD), enter the total distribution on line 4a. If the total amount distributed is an HFD and you elect to exclude it from income, enter -0- on line 4b. If only part of the distribution is an HFD and you elect to exclude that part from income, enter the part that isn't an HFD on line 4b unless Exception 2 applies to that part. Enter “HFD” next to line 4b.
An HFD is a distribution made directly by the trustee of your IRA (other than an ongoing SEP or SIMPLE IRA) to your HSA. If eligible, you can generally elect to exclude an HFD from your income once in your lifetime. You can't exclude more than the limit on HSA contributions or more than the amount that would otherwise be included in your income. If your IRA includes nondeductible contributions, the HFD is first considered to be paid out of otherwise taxable income. See Pub. 969 for details.
The amount of an HFD reduces the amount you can contribute to your HSA for the year. If you fail to maintain eligibility for an HSA for the 12 months following the month of the HFD, you may have to report the HFD as income and pay an additional tax. See Form 8889, Part III.
More than one exception applies.
If more than one exception applies, include a statement showing the amount of each exception, instead of making an entry next to line 4b. For example: “Line 4b – $1,000 Rollover and $500 HFD.” But you don’t need to attach a statement if only Exception 2 and one other exception apply.
More than one distribution.
If you (or your spouse if filing jointly) received more than one distribution, figure the taxable amount of each distribution and enter the total of the taxable amounts on line 4b. Enter the total amount of those distributions on line 4a.
You must start receiving at least a minimum amount from your traditional IRA by April 1 of the year following the year you reach age 73. If you don’t receive the minimum distribution amount, you may have to pay an additional tax on the amount that should have been distributed. For details, including how to figure the minimum required distribution, see Pub. 590-B.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received an early distribution from your IRA and the total wasn't rolled over. See the instructions for Schedule 2, line 8, for details.
More information.
For more information about IRAs, see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
Lines 5a and 5b
Pensions and Annuities
You should receive a Form 1099-R showing the total amount of your pension and annuity payments before income tax or other deductions were withheld. This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R. Pension and annuity payments include distributions from 401(k), 403(b), and governmental 457(b) plans. Rollovers and lump-sum distributions are explained later. Don’t include the following payments on lines 5a and 5b. Instead, report them on line 1h.
Disability pensions received before you reach the minimum retirement age set by your employer.
Corrective distributions (including any earnings) of excess elective deferrals or other excess contributions to retirement plans. The plan must advise you of the year(s) the distributions are includible in income.
Attach Form(s) 1099-R to Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any federal income tax was withheld.
Fully Taxable Pensions and Annuities
Your payments are fully taxable if (a) you didn't contribute to the cost (see Cost, later) of your pension or annuity, or (b) you got your entire cost back tax free before 2024. But see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers, later. If your pension or annuity is fully taxable, enter the total pension or annuity payments (from Form(s) 1099-R, box 1) on line 5b; don’t make an entry on line 5a.
Fully taxable pensions and annuities also include military retirement pay shown on Form 1099-R. For details on military disability pensions, see Pub. 525. If you received a Form RRB-1099-R, see Pub. 575 to find out how to report your benefits.
Partially Taxable Pensions and Annuities
Enter the total pension or annuity payments (from Form 1099-R, box 1) on line 5a. If your Form 1099-R doesn't show the taxable amount, you must use the General Rule explained in Pub. 939 to figure the taxable part to enter on line 5b. But if your annuity starting date (defined later) was after July 1, 1986, see Simplified Method, later, to find out if you must use that method to figure the taxable part.
You can ask the IRS to figure the taxable part for you for a $1,000 fee. For details, see Pub. 939.
If your Form 1099-R shows a taxable amount, you can report that amount on line 5b. But you may be able to report a lower taxable amount by using the General Rule or the Simplified Method or if the exclusion for retired public safety officers, discussed next, applies.
Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers
If you are an eligible retired public safety officer (law enforcement officer, firefighter, chaplain, or member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew who is retired because of disability or because you reached normal retirement age), you can elect to exclude from income distributions made from your eligible retirement plan that are used to pay the premiums for coverage by an accident or health plan or a long-term care insurance contract. The premiums can be for coverage for you, your spouse, or dependents. The distribution must be from the plan maintained by the employer from which you retired as a public safety officer. The distribution can be made directly from the plan to the provider of the accident or health plan or long-term care insurance contract, or the distribution can be made to you to pay to the provider of the accident or health plan or long-term care insurance contract. You can exclude from income the smaller of the amount of the premiums paid or $3,000. You can make this election only for amounts that would otherwise be included in your income. The amount excluded from your income can’t be used to claim a medical expense deduction.
An eligible retirement plan is a governmental plan that is a qualified trust or a section 403(a), 403(b), or 457(b) plan.
You can exclude from income only the smaller of the amount of the premiums paid or $3,000. This is true if the distribution was made directly from the plan to the provider of the accident or health plan or long-term care insurance contract or if the distribution was made to you and you paid the provider of the accident or health plan or long-term care insurance contract. If you received a distribution from your eligible retirement plan, and you used part of that distribution to pay premiums for an accident or health plan or long-term care insurance contract, you can still exclude from income only the smaller of the amount of the premiums paid or $3,000. The rest of the distribution is taxable to you and must be reported on line 5b.
If you make this election, reduce the otherwise taxable amount of your pension or annuity by the amount excluded. The amount shown in box 2a of Form 1099-R doesn't reflect the exclusion. Report your total distributions on line 5a and the taxable amount on line 5b. Enter “PSO” next to line 5b.
Simplified Method Worksheet—Lines 5a and 5b
Simplified Method Worksheet-Lines 5a and 5b
Simplified Method Worksheet—Lines 5a and 5b
Simplified Method Worksheet—Lines 5a and 5b
Summary: This is the simplified method worksheet. It is used to figure the taxable part of your pension or annuity using the simplified method.
Before you begin: If you are the beneficiary of a deceased employee or former employee who died before August 21, 1996, include any death benefit exclusion that you are entitled to (up to $5,000) in the amount entered on line 2 below.
Before you begin: More than one pension or annuity. If you had more than one partially taxable pension or annuity, figure the taxable part of each separately. Enter the total of the taxable parts on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b. Enter the total pension or annuity payments received in 2024 on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5a.
The line items to be completed are:
"1. Enter the total pension or annuity payments from Form 1099-R, box 1. Also, enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5a." field
"2. Enter your cost in the plan at the annuity starting date. Note. If you completed this worksheet last year, skip line 3 and enter the amount from line 4 of last year’s worksheet on line 4 below (even if the amount of your pension or annuity has changed). Otherwise, go to line 3." field
"3. Enter the appropriate number from Table 1 below. But if your annuity starting date was after 1997 and the payments are for your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate number from Table 2 below." field
"4. Divide line 2 by the number on line 3." field
"5. Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s payments were made. If your annuity starting date was before 1987, skip lines 6 and 7 and enter this amount on line 8. Otherwise, go to line 6." field
"6. Enter the amount, if any, recovered tax free in years after 1986. If you completed this worksheet last year, enter the amount from line 10 of last year’s worksheet." field
"7. Subtract line 6 from line 2." field
"8. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7." field
"9. Taxable amount. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than zero. Also, enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b. If your Form 1099-R shows a larger amount, use the amount on this line instead of the amount from Form 1099-R. If you are a retired public safety officer, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers before entering an amount on line 5b." field
"10. Was your annuity starting date before 1987?"
"Yes. STOP. Do not complete the rest of this worksheet."checkbox, field
"No. Add lines 6 and 8. This is the amount you have recovered tax free through 2024. You will need this number if you need to fill out this worksheet next year." checkbox, field
"11. Balance of cost to be recovered. Subtract line 10 from line 2. If zero, you won’t have to complete this worksheet next year. The payments you receive next year will generally be fully taxable."field
Table 1 for Line 3 Above
IF the age at annuity starting date was
AND your annuity starting date was before November 19, 1996, enter on line 3
AND your annuity starting date was after November 18, 1996, enter on line 3
55 or under
300
360
56–60
260
310
61–65
240
260
66–70
170
210
71 or older
120
160
Table 2 for Line 3 Above
IF the combined ages at annuity starting date were
THEN enter on line 3
110 or under
410
111–120
360
121–130
310
131–140
260
141 or older
210
Please click here for the text description of the image.
If you are retired on disability and reporting your disability pension on line 1h, include only the taxable amount on that line and enter “PSO” and the amount excluded on the dotted line next to line 1h.
Payments when you are disabled.
If you receive payments from a retirement or profit-sharing plan that does not provide for disability retirement, do not treat those payments as disability payments. The payments must be reported as a pension or annuity.
You must include in your income any amounts that you received that you would have received in retirement had you not become disabled as a result of a terrorist attack. Include in your income any payments you receive from a 401(k), pension, or other retirement plan to the extent that you would have received the amount at the same or later time regardless of whether you had become disabled.
Example.
You were a contractor who was disabled as a direct result of participating in efforts to clean up the World Trade Center and you are eligible for compensation by the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund. You began receiving a disability pension at age 55 when you could no longer work due to your disability. Under your pension plan you are entitled to an early retirement benefit of $2,500 a month at age 55. If you wait until age 62, the normal retirement age under the plan, you would be entitled to a normal retirement benefit of $3,000 a month. The pension plan provides that a participant who retires early on account of disability is entitled to receive the participant's normal retirement benefit, which in your case equals $3,000 a month. Until you turn age 62, you can exclude $500 of your monthly retirement benefit from income (the difference between the early retirement benefit and the normal retirement benefit, $3,000 - $2,500) received on account of disability. You must report the remaining $2,500 of monthly pension benefit as taxable. For each month after you turn age 62, you must report the full amount of the monthly pension benefit ($3,000 a month) as taxable.
Simplified Method
You must use the Simplified Method if either of the following applies.
Your annuity starting date was after July 1, 1986, and you used this method last year to figure the taxable part.
Your annuity starting date was after November 18, 1996, and both of the following apply.
The payments are from a qualified employee plan, a qualified employee annuity, or a tax-sheltered annuity.
On your annuity starting date, either you were under age 75 or the number of years of guaranteed payments was fewer than 5. See Pub. 575 for the definition of guaranteed payments.
If you must use the Simplified Method, complete the Simplified Method Worksheet in these instructions to figure the taxable part of your pension or annuity. For more details on the Simplified Method, see Pub. 575 (or Pub. 721 for U.S. Civil Service retirement benefits).
If you received U.S. Civil Service retirement benefits and you chose the alternative annuity option, see Pub. 721 to figure the taxable part of your annuity. Do not use the Simplified Method Worksheet in these instructions.
Annuity Starting Date
Your annuity starting date is the later of the first day of the first period for which you received a payment or the date the plan's obligations became fixed.
Age (or Combined Ages) at Annuity Starting Date
If you are the retiree, use your age on the annuity starting date. If you are the survivor of a retiree, use the retiree's age on their annuity starting date. But if your annuity starting date was after 1997 and the payments are for your life and that of your beneficiary, use your combined ages on the annuity starting date.
If you are the beneficiary of an employee who died, see Pub. 575. If there is more than one beneficiary, see Pub. 575 or Pub. 721 to figure each beneficiary's taxable amount.
Cost
Your cost is generally your net investment in the plan as of the annuity starting date. It doesn't include pre-tax contributions. Your net investment may be shown in box 9b of Form 1099-R.
Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax-free distribution of cash or other assets from one retirement plan that is contributed to another plan within 60 days of receiving the distribution. However, a rollover to a Roth IRA or a designated Roth account is generally not a tax-free distribution. Use lines 5a and 5b to report a rollover, including a direct rollover, from one qualified employer's plan to another or to an IRA.
Enter on line 5a the distribution from Form 1099-R, box 1. From this amount, subtract any contributions (usually shown in box 5) that were taxable to you when made. From that result, subtract the amount of the rollover. Enter the remaining amount on line 5b. If the remaining amount is zero and you have no other distribution to report on line 5b, enter -0- on line 5b. Also enter "Rollover" next to line 5b.
See Pub. 575 for more details on rollovers, including special rules that apply to rollovers from designated Roth accounts, partial rollovers of property, and distributions under qualified domestic relations orders.
Lump-Sum Distributions
If you received a lump-sum distribution from a profit-sharing or retirement plan, your Form 1099-R should have the "Total distribution" box in box 2b checked. You may owe an additional tax if you received an early distribution from a qualified retirement plan and the total amount wasn't rolled over. For details, see the instructions for Schedule 2, line 8.
Enter the total distribution on line 5a and the taxable part on line 5b. For details, see Pub. 575.
If you or the plan participant was born before January 2, 1936, you could pay less tax on the distribution. See Form 4972.
Lines 6a, 6b, and 6c
Lines 6a and 6b Social Security Benefits
You should receive a Form SSA-1099 showing in box 3 the total social security benefits paid to you. Box 4 will show the amount of any benefits you repaid in 2024. If you received railroad retirement benefits treated as social security, you should receive a Form RRB-1099.
Use the Social Security Benefits Worksheet in these instructions to see if any of your benefits are taxable.
Exception.
Do not use the Social Security Benefits Worksheet in these instructions if any of the following applies.
You made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2024 and you or your spouse were covered by a retirement plan at work or through self-employment. Instead, use the worksheets in Pub. 590-A to see if any of your social security benefits are taxable and to figure your IRA deduction.
You repaid any benefits in 2024 and your total repayments (box 4) were more than your total benefits for 2024 (box 3). None of your benefits are taxable for 2024. Also, if your total repayments in 2024 exceed your total benefits received in 2024 by more than $3,000, you may be able to take an itemized deduction or a credit for part of the excess repayments if they were for benefits you included in income in an earlier year. For more details, see Pub. 915.
You file Form 2555, 4563, or 8815, or you exclude employer-provided adoption benefits or income from sources within Puerto Rico. Instead, use the worksheet in Pub. 915.
Social security information. Social security beneficiaries can now get a variety of information from the SSA website with a my Social Security account, including getting a replacement Form SSA‐1099 if needed. For more information and to set up an account, go to SSA.gov/myaccount.
Disability payments.
Don’t include in your income any disability payments (including Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) payments) you receive for injuries incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack directed against the United States (or its allies), whether outside or within the United States. In the case of the September 11 attacks, injuries eligible for coverage by the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund are treated as incurred as a direct result of the attack. If these payments are incorrectly reported as taxable on Form SSA-1099, don't include the nontaxable portion of income on your tax return. You may receive a notice from the IRS regarding the omitted payments. Follow the instructions in the notice to explain that the excluded payments aren't taxable. For more information about these payments, see Pub. 3920.
Example.
You were a firefighter who was disabled as a direct result of the September 11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. You began receiving SSDI benefits at age 54. Your full retirement age for social security retirement benefits is age 66. Your birthday is April 25. In the year you turned age 66, you received $1,500 per month in benefits from the SSA (for a total of $18,000 for the year). Because you became eligible for a full retirement benefit in May, the month after you turned age 66, you can exclude only 4 months (January through April) of your annual benefit from income ($6,000). You must report the remaining $12,000 on line 6a. You must also complete the Social Security Benefits Worksheet to find out if any part of the $12,000 is taxable.
Form RRB-1099. If you need a replacement Form RRB-1099, call the Railroad Retirement Board at 877-772-5772 or go to www.rrb.gov.
Accrued leave payment.
If you retire on disability, any lump-sum payment you receive for accrued annual leave is a salary payment. The payment is not a disability payment. Include it in your income in the tax year you receive it.
Social Security Benefits Worksheet—Lines 6a and 6b
Tax Tables
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1, line 24z).
If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024, enter “D” to the right of the word “benefits” on line 6a. If you don’t, you may get a math error notice from the IRS.
Be sure you have read the
Exception
in the line 6a and 6b instructions to see if you can use this worksheet instead of a publication to find out if any of your benefits are taxable.
1.
Enter the total amount from box 5 of all your Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099. Also enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6a
1.
_____
2.
Multiply line 1 by 50% (0.50)
2.
_____
3.
Combine the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 1z, 2b, 3b, 4b, 5b, 7, and 8
3.
_____
4.
Enter the amount, if any, from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a
4.
_____
5.
Combine lines 2, 3, and 4
5.
_____
6.
Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 20, and 23 and 25
6.
_____
7.
Is the amount on line 6 less than the amount on line 5?
No.
None of your social security benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b.
Yes. Subtract line 6 from line 5
7.
_____
8.
If you are:
Married filing jointly, enter $32,000
Single, head of household, qualifying surviving spouse, or
married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for
all of 2024, enter $25,000
8.
_____
Married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at any time
in 2024, skip lines 8 through 15; multiply line 7 by 85% (0.85) and
enter the result on line 16. Then, go to line 17
9.
Is the amount on line 8 less than the amount on line 7?
No.
None of your social security benefits are taxable. Enter -0- on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b. If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024, be sure you entered “D” to the right of the word “benefits” on line 6a.
Yes. Subtract line 8 from line 7
9.
_____
10.
Enter $12,000 if married filing jointly; $9,000 if single, head of household, qualifying surviving spouse, or married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024
10.
_____
11.
Subtract line 10 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0-
11.
_____
12.
Enter the smaller of line 9 or line 10
12.
_____
13.
Enter one-half of line 12
13.
_____
14.
Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 13
14.
_____
15.
Multiply line 11 by 85% (0.85). If line 11 is zero, enter -0-
15.
_____
16.
Add lines 14 and 15
16.
_____
17.
Multiply line 1 by 85% (0.85)
17.
_____
18.
Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 16 or line 17. Also enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b
18.
_____
If any of your benefits are taxable for 2024 and they include a lump-sum benefit payment that was for an earlier year, you may be able to reduce the taxable amount. See Lump-Sum Election in Pub. 915 for details.
Line 6c
Check the box on line 6c if you elect to use the lump-sum election method for your benefits. If any of your benefits are taxable for 2024 and they include a lump-sum benefit payment that was for an earlier year, you may be able to reduce the taxable amount with the lump-sum election. See Lump-Sum Election in Pub. 915 for details.
Line 7
Capital Gain or (Loss)
If you sold a capital asset, such as a stock or bond, you must complete and attach Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Exception 1.
You don’t have to file Form 8949 or Schedule D if you aren’t deferring any capital gain by investing in a qualified opportunity fund and both of the following apply.
You have no capital losses, and your only capital gains are capital gain distributions from Form(s) 1099-DIV, box 2a (or substitute statements); and
None of the Form(s) 1099-DIV (or substitute statements) have an amount in box 2b (unrecaptured section 1250 gain), box 2c (section 1202 gain), or box 2d (collectibles (28%) gain).
Exception 2.
You must file Schedule D but generally don’t have to file Form 8949 if Exception 1 doesn't apply, you aren’t deferring any capital gain by investing in a qualified opportunity fund or terminating deferral from an investment in a qualified opportunity fund, and your only capital gains and losses are:
Capital gain distributions;
A capital loss carryover from 2023;
A gain from Form 2439 or 6252 or Part I of Form 4797;
A gain or loss from Form 4684, 6781, or 8824;
A gain or loss from a partnership, S corporation, estate, or trust; or
Gains and losses from transactions for which you received a Form 1099-B (or substitute statement) that shows basis was reported to the IRS, the QOF box in box 3 isn’t checked, and you don’t need to make any adjustments in column (g) of Form 8949 or enter any codes in column (f) of Form 8949.
If Exception 1 applies, enter your total capital gain distributions (from box 2a of Form(s) 1099-DIV) on line 7 and check the box on that line. If you received capital gain distributions as a nominee (that is, they were paid to you but actually belong to someone else), report on line 7 only the amount that belongs to you. Include a statement showing the full amount you received and the amount you received as a nominee. See the Schedule B instructions for filing requirements for Forms 1099-DIV and 1096.
If you don’t have to file Schedule D, use the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet in the line 16 instructions to figure your tax.
Total Income and Adjusted Gross Income
Line 10
Enter any adjustments to income from Schedule 1, line 26, on line 10.
Tax and Credits
Line 12
Itemized Deductions or Standard Deduction
In most cases, your federal income tax will be less if you take the larger of your itemized deductions or standard deduction.
Itemized Deductions
To figure your itemized deductions, fill in Schedule A.
If you made a section 962 election and are taking a deduction under section 250 with respect to any income inclusions under section 951A, don't report the deduction on line 12. Instead, report the tax with respect to a section 962 election on line 16 and include in the statement required by line 16 how you figured the section 250 deduction.
Standard Deduction
Most Form 1040 filers can find their standard deduction by looking at the amounts listed to the left of line 12. Most Form 1040-SR filers can find their standard deduction by using the chart on the last page of Form 1040-SR.
Exception 1—Dependent.
If you checked the “Someone can claim you as a dependent” box, or if you’re filing jointly and you checked the “Someone can claim your spouse as a dependent” box, use the Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents to figure your standard deduction.
Someone claims you or your spouse as a dependent if they list your or your spouse's name and SSN in the Dependents section of their return.
Exception 2—Born before January 2, 1960, or blind.
If you checked any of the following boxes, figure your standard deduction using the Standard Deduction Chart for People Who Were Born Before January 2, 1960, or Were Blind if you are filing Form 1040 or by using the chart on the last page of Form 1040-SR.
You were born before January 2, 1960.
You are blind.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1960.
Spouse is blind.
Exception 3—Separate return or dual-status alien.
If you checked the box labeled “Spouse itemizes on separate return or you were dual-status alien” on the Spouse standard deduction line, your standard deduction is zero, even if you were born before January 2, 1960, or were blind.
Exception 4—Increased standard deduction for net qualified disaster loss.
If you had a net qualified disaster loss and you elect to increase your standard deduction by the amount of your net qualified disaster loss, use Schedule A to figure your standard deduction. Qualified disaster loss refers to losses arising from certain disasters occurring in 2016 and subsequent years. See the Instructions for Form 4684 and Schedule A, line 16, for more information.
Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
Use this worksheet only if someone can claim you, or your spouse if filing jointly, as a dependent.
1.
Check if:
You were born before January 2, 1960.
You are blind.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1960.
Spouse is blind.
Total number of boxes checked
1.
_____
2.
Is your earned income* more than $850?
Yes.
Add $450 to your earned income. Enter the total.
2.
_____
No.
Enter $1,300.
3.
Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
Single or married filing separately—$14,600
Married filing jointly—$29,200
Head of household—$21,900
3.
_____
4.
Standard deduction.
a.
Enter the smaller of line 2 or line 3. If born after January 1, 1960, and not blind, stop here and enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12. Otherwise, go to line 4b
4a.
_____
b.
If born before January 2, 1960, or blind, multiply the number on line 1 by $1,550 ($1,950 if single or head of household)
4b.
_____
c.
Add lines 4a and 4b. Enter the total here and on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 12
4c.
_____
* Earned income includes wages, salaries, tips, professional fees, and other compensation received for personal services you performed. It also includes any taxable scholarship or fellowship grant. Generally, your earned income is the total of the amount(s) you reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z, and Schedule 1, lines 3, 6, 8r, 8t, and 8u minus the amount, if any, on Schedule 1, line 15.
Standard Deduction Chart for People Who Were Born Before January 2, 1960, or Were Blind
Don’t use this chart if someone can claim you, or your spouse if filing jointly, as a dependent. Instead, use the worksheet above.
You were born before January 2, 1960.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1960.
You are blind.
Spouse is blind.
Enter the total number of boxes checked
▶
IF your filing
status is . . .
AND the number in
the box above is . . .
THEN your standard
deduction is . . .
Single
1
2
$16,550
18,500
Married filing jointly
1
2
3
4
$30,750
32,300
33,850
35,400
Qualifying surviving spouse
1
2
$30,750
32,300
Married filing separately*
1
2
3
4
$16,150
17,700
19,250
20,800
Head of household
1
2
$23,850
25,800
* You can check the boxes for spouse if your filing status is married filing separately and your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed as a dependent on another person's return.
Line 13
Qualified Business Income Deduction (Section 199A Deduction)
To figure your Qualified Business Income Deduction, use Form 8995 or Form 8995-A as applicable.
Use Form 8995 if:
You have qualified business income, qualified REIT dividends, or qualified PTP income (loss);
Your 2024 taxable income before the qualified business income deduction is less than or equal to $191,950 ($383,900 if married filing jointly); and
You aren’t a patron in a specified agricultural or horticultural cooperative.
If you don’t meet these requirements, use Form 8995-A, Qualified Business Income Deduction. Attach whichever form you use (Form 8995 or 8995-A) to your return. See the Instructions for Forms 8995 and 8995-A for more information for figuring and reporting your qualified business income deduction.
Line 16
Tax
Include in the total on the entry space on line 16 all of the following taxes that apply.
Tax on your taxable income. Figure the tax using one of the methods described later.
Tax from Form(s) 8814 (relating to the election to report child's interest or dividends). Check the appropriate box.
Tax from Form 4972 (relating to lump-sum distributions). Check the appropriate box.
Tax with respect to a section 962 election (election made by a domestic shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation to be taxed at corporate rates) reduced by the amount of any foreign tax credits claimed on Form 1118. See section 962 for details. Check box 3 and enter the amount and “962” in the space next to that box. Attach a statement showing how you figured the tax.
Recapture of an education credit. You may owe this tax if you claimed an education credit in an earlier year, and either tax-free educational assistance or a refund of qualified expenses was received in 2024 for the student. See Form 8863 for more details. Check box 3 and enter the amount and “ECR” in the space next to that box.
Any tax from Form 8621, line 16e, relating to a section 1291 fund. Check box 3 and enter the amount of the tax and “1291TAX” in the space next to that box.
Tax from Form 8978, line 14 (relating to partner's audit liability under section 6226). Check box 3 and enter the amount of the liability and “Form 8978” in the space next to that box. If the amount on Form 8978, line 14, is negative, see the instructions for Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 6l.
Triggering event under section 965(i). If you had a triggering event under section 965(i) during the year and did not enter into a transfer agreement, check box 3 and enter the amount of the triggered deferred net 965 tax liability and enter “965INC” on the line next to that box.
Do you want the IRS to figure the tax on your taxable income for you?
□ Yes.
See chapter 13 of Pub. 17 for details, including who is eligible and what to do. If you have paid too much, we will send you a refund. If you didn't pay enough, we will send you a bill.
□ No.
Use one of the following methods to figure your tax.
Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet.
If your taxable income is less than $100,000, you must use the Tax Table, later in these instructions, to figure your tax. Be sure you use the correct column. If your taxable income is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet right after the Tax Table.
However, don’t use the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet to figure your tax if any of the following applies.
Form 8615.
Form 8615 must generally be used to figure the tax on your unearned income over $2,600 if you are under age 18, and in certain situations if you are older.
You must file Form 8615 if you meet all of the following conditions.
You had more than $2,600 of unearned income (such as taxable interest, ordinary dividends, or capital gains (including capital gain distributions)).
You are required to file a tax return.
You were either:
Under age 18 at the end of 2024,
Age 18 at the end of 2024 and didn't have earned income that was more than half of your support, or
A full-time student at least age 19 but under age 24 at the end of 2024 and didn't have earned income that was more than half of your support.
At least one of your parents was alive at the end of 2024.
You don’t file a joint return in 2024.
A child born on January 1, 2007, is considered to be age 18 at the end of 2024; a child born on January 1, 2006, is considered to be age 19 at the end of 2024; and a child born on January 1, 2001, is considered to be age 24 at the end of 2024.
Schedule D Tax Worksheet.
Use the Schedule D Tax Worksheet in the Instructions for Schedule D to figure the amount to enter on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, if:
You have to file Schedule D, line 18 or 19 of Schedule D is more than zero, and lines 15 and 16 of Schedule D are gains; or
You have to file Form 4952 and you have an amount on line 4g, even if you don’t need to file Schedule D.
But if you are filing Form 2555, you must use the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet instead.
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet.
Use the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet, later, to figure your tax if you don’t have to use the Schedule D Tax Worksheet and if any of the following applies.
You reported qualified dividends on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 3a.
You don’t have to file Schedule D and you reported capital gain distributions on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.
You are filing Schedule D, and Schedule D, lines 15 and 16, are both more than zero.
But if you are filing Form 2555, you must use the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet instead.
Schedule J.
If you had income from farming or fishing (including certain amounts received in connection with the Exxon Valdez litigation), your tax may be less if you choose to figure it using income averaging on Schedule J.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet.
If you claimed the foreign earned income exclusion, housing exclusion, or housing deduction on Form 2555, you must figure your tax using the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet.
Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet—Line 16
If Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, is zero, don’t complete this worksheet.
1.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15
1.
_____
2a.
Enter the amount from your (and your spouse's if filing jointly) Form 2555, lines 45 and 50
2a.
_____
b.
Enter the total amount of any itemized deductions or exclusions you couldn't claim because they are related to excluded income
b.
_____
c.
Subtract line 2b from line 2a. If zero or less, enter -0-
c.
_____
3.
Add lines 1 and 2c
3.
_____
4.
Figure the tax on the amount on line 3. Use the Tax Table, Tax Computation Worksheet, Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet*, Schedule D Tax Worksheet*, or Form 8615, whichever applies. See the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, to see which tax computation method applies. (Don’t use a second Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet to figure the tax on this line.)
4.
_____
5.
Figure the tax on the amount on line 2c. If the amount on line 2c is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table to figure this tax. If the amount on line 2c is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet
5.
_____
6.
Subtract line 5 from line 4. Enter the result. If zero or less, enter -0-. Also include this amount on the entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16
6.
_____
* Enter the amount from line 3 above on line 1 of the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet if you use either of those worksheets to figure the tax on line 4 above. Complete the rest of that worksheet through line 4 (line 10 if you use the Schedule D Tax Worksheet). Next, you must determine if you have a capital gain excess. To find out if you have a capital gain excess, subtract Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, from line 4 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet (line 10 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet). If the result is more than zero, that amount is your capital gain excess.
If you don’t have a capital gain excess, complete the rest of either of those worksheets according to the worksheet's instructions. Then, complete lines 5 and 6 above.
If you have a capital gain excess, complete a second Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or Schedule D Tax Worksheet (whichever applies) as instructed above but in its entirety and with the following additional modifications. Then, complete lines 5 and 6 above. These modifications are to be made only for purposes of filling out the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet above.
1. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount you would otherwise enter on line 3 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or line 9 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet by your capital gain excess.
2. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount you would otherwise enter on line 2 of your Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet or line 6 of your Schedule D Tax Worksheet by any of your capital gain excess not used in (1) above.
3. Reduce (but not below zero) the amount on your Schedule D (Form 1040), line 18, by your capital gain excess.
4. Include your capital gain excess as a loss on line 16 of your Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet in the Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040).
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16
Tax Tables
See the earlier instructions for line 16 to see if you can use this worksheet to figure your tax.
Before completing this worksheet, complete Form 1040 or 1040-SR through line 15.
If you don’t have to file Schedule D and you received capital gain distributions, be sure you checked the box on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.
1.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. However, if you are filing Form 2555 (relating to foreign earned income), enter the amount from line 3 of the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet
1.
_____
2.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 3a*
2.
_____
3.
Are you filing Schedule D?*
Yes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 of Schedule D. If either line 15 or line 16 is blank or a loss, enter -0-.
3.
_____
No.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7.
4.
Add lines 2 and 3
4.
_____
5.
Subtract line 4 from line 1. If zero or less, enter -0-
5.
_____
6.
Enter:
$47,025 if single or married filing separately,
$94,050 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
$63,000 if head of household.
6.
_____
7.
Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 6
7.
_____
8.
Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7
8.
_____
9.
Subtract line 8 from line 7. This amount is taxed at 0%
9.
_____
10.
Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 4
10.
_____
11.
Enter the amount from line 9
11.
_____
12.
Subtract line 11 from line 10
12.
_____
13.
Enter:
$518,900 if single,
$291,850 if married filing separately,
$583,750 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
$551,350 if head of household.
13.
_____
14.
Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 13
14.
_____
15.
Add lines 5 and 9
15.
_____
16.
Subtract line 15 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0-
16.
_____
17.
Enter the smaller of line 12 or line 16
17.
_____
18.
Multiply line 17 by 15% (0.15)
18.
_____
19.
Add lines 9 and 17
19.
_____
20.
Subtract line 19 from line 10
20.
_____
21.
Multiply line 20 by 20% (0.20)
21.
_____
22.
Figure the tax on the amount on line 5. If the amount on line 5 is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table to figure the tax. If the amount on line 5 is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet
22.
_____
23.
Add lines 18, 21, and 22
23.
_____
24.
Figure the tax on the amount on line 1. If the amount on line 1 is less than $100,000, use the Tax Table to figure the tax. If the amount on line 1 is $100,000 or more, use the Tax Computation Worksheet
24.
_____
25.
Tax on all taxable income. Enter the smaller of line 23 or line 24. Also include this amount on the entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. If you are filing Form 2555, don’t enter this amount on the entry space on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16. Instead, enter it on line 4 of the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet
25.
_____
* If you are filing Form 2555, see the footnote in the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet before completing this line.
Line 19
Child Tax Credit and Credit for Other Dependents
See Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) and its instructions for information on figuring and claiming any child tax credit and credit for other dependents that you may qualify to claim.
Form 8862, who must file.
You must file Form 8862 to claim the child tax credit or credit for other dependents if your child tax credit (refundable or nonrefundable depending on the tax year), additional child tax credit, or credit for other dependents for a year after 2015 was denied or reduced for any reason other than a math or clerical error. Attach a completed Form 8862 to your 2024 return to claim the credit for 2024. Don’t file Form 8862 if you filed Form 8862 for 2023, and the child tax credit, additional child tax credit, or credit for other dependents was allowed for that year. See Form 8862 and its instructions for details.
If you claim the child tax credit or credit for other dependents even though you aren't eligible and it is determined that your error is due to reckless or intentional disregard of the rules for these credits, you won't be allowed to take either credit or the additional child tax credit for 2 years even if you're otherwise eligible to do so. If you claim the child tax credit or credit for other dependents even though you aren’t eligible and it is later determined that you fraudulently claimed either credit, you won't be allowed to take either credit or the additional child tax credit for 10 years. You may also have to pay penalties.
If your qualifying child didn’t have an SSN valid for employment issued before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions), you can’t claim the child tax credit for that child on your original or amended return. However, you may be able to claim the credit for other dependents for that child.
Payments
Line 25 Federal Income Tax Withheld
Line 25a—Form(s) W-2
Add the amounts shown as federal income tax withheld on your Form(s) W-2. Enter the total on line 25a. The amount withheld should be shown in box 2 of Form W-2. Attach your Form(s) W-2 to your return.
Line 25b—Form(s) 1099
Include on line 25b any federal income tax withheld on your Form(s) 1099-R. The amount withheld should be shown in box 4. Attach your Form(s) 1099-R to the front of your return if federal income tax was withheld.
If you received a 2024 Form 1099 showing federal income tax withheld on dividends, taxable or tax-exempt interest income, unemployment compensation, social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits, or other income you received, include the amount withheld in the total on line 25b. This should be shown in box 4 of Form 1099, box 6 of Form SSA-1099, or box 10 of Form RRB-1099.
Line 25c—Other Forms
Include on line 25c any federal income tax withheld on your Form(s) W-2G. The amount withheld should be shown in box 4. Attach Form(s) W-2G to the front of your return if federal income tax was withheld.
If you had Additional Medicare Tax withheld, include the amount shown on Form 8959, line 24, in the total on line 25c. Attach Form 8959.
Include on line 25c any federal income tax withheld that is shown on a Schedule K-1.
Also include on line 25c any tax withheld that is shown on Form 1042-S, Form 8805, or Form 8288-A. To assist in processing, attach the form to your return to claim a credit for the withholding.
Line 26
2024 Estimated Tax Payments
Enter any estimated federal income tax payments you made for 2024. Include any overpayment that you applied to your 2024 estimated tax from your 2023 return or an amended return (Form 1040-X).
If you and your spouse paid joint estimated tax but are now filing separate income tax returns, you can divide the amount paid in any way you choose as long as you both agree. If you can't agree, you must divide the payments in proportion to each spouse's individual tax as shown on your separate returns for 2024. For more information, see Pub. 505. Be sure to show both SSNs in the space provided on the separate returns. If you or your spouse paid separate estimated tax but you are now filing a joint return, add the amounts you each paid. Follow these instructions even if your spouse died in 2024 or in 2025 before filing a 2024 return.
Divorced taxpayers.
If you got divorced in 2024 and you made joint estimated tax payments with your former spouse, enter your former spouse's SSN in the space provided on the front of Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you were divorced and remarried in 2024, enter your present spouse's SSN in the space provided on the front of Form 1040 or 1040-SR. Also, on the dotted line next to line 26, enter your former spouse's SSN, followed by “DIV.”
Name change.
If you changed your name and you made estimated tax payments using your former name, attach a statement to the front of Form 1040 or 1040-SR that explains all the payments you and your spouse made in 2024 and the name(s) and SSN(s) under which you made them.
Line 27— Earned Income Credit (EIC)
What Is the EIC?
The EIC is a credit for certain people who work. The credit may give you a refund even if you don’t owe any tax or didn’t have any tax withheld.
To Take the EIC:
Follow the steps below.
Complete the worksheet that applies to you or let the IRS figure the credit for you.
If you have at least one child who meets the conditions to be your qualifying child for purposes of claiming the EIC, complete and attach Schedule EIC, even if that child doesn't have a valid SSN. See Schedule EIC for more information, including how to complete Schedule EIC if your qualifying child doesn't have a valid SSN.
For help in determining if you are eligible for the EIC, go to
IRS.gov/EITC and click on “Check if You Qualify.” This service is available in English and Spanish.
If you claim the EIC even though you aren't eligible and it is determined that your error is due to reckless or intentional disregard of the EIC rules, you won't be allowed to take the credit for 2 years even if you are otherwise eligible to do so. If you fraudulently claim the EIC, you won't be allowed to take the credit for 10 years. See Form 8862, who must file, later. You may also have to pay penalties.
Refunds for returns claiming the earned income credit can't be issued before mid-February 2025. This delay applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with the earned income credit.
Step 1. All Filers
1. If, in 2024:
3 or more children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than $59,899 ($66,819 if married filing jointly)?
2 children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than $55,768 ($62,688 if married filing jointly)?
1 child who has a valid SSN lived with you, is the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than $49,084 ($56,004 if married filing jointly)?
No children who have valid SSNs lived with you, is the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, less than $18,591 ($25,511 if married filing jointly)?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can't take the credit.
2. Do you, and your spouse if filing a joint return, have a social security number issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions) that allows you to work and is valid for EIC purposes (explained later under Definitions and Special Rules)?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can't take the credit.
Enter “No” on the dotted line next to line 27.
3. Are you filing Form 2555 (relating to foreign earned income)?
[ ]
Yes.
You can't take the credit.
[ ]
No.
4. Were you or your spouse a nonresident alien for any part of 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
See Nonresident aliens, later, under Definitions and Special Rules.
[ ]
No.
Go to Step 2.
Step 2. Investment Income
1. Add the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR:
Line 2a
_____
Line 2b
+
_____
Line 3b
+
_____
Line 7*
+
_____
Investment Income
=
*If line 7 is a loss, enter -0-.
2. Is your investment income more than $11,600?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
Skip question 3; go to question 4.
3. Are you filing Form 4797 (relating to sales of business property)?
[ ]
Yes.
See Form 4797 filers, later, under Definitions and Special Rules.
[ ]
No.
You can't take the credit.
4. Do any of the following apply for 2024?
You are filing Schedule E.
You are reporting income from the rental of personal property not used in a trade or business.
You are filing Form 8814 (relating to election to report child's interest and dividends on your return).
You have income or loss from a passive activity.
[ ]
Yes.
Use Worksheet 1 in Pub. 596 to see if you can take the credit.
[ ]
No.
Go to Step 3.
Step 3. Qualifying Child
A qualifying child for the EIC is your...
Son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your grandchild, niece, or nephew)
was ...
Under age 19 at the end of 2024 and younger than you
(or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Under age 24 at the end of 2024, a student (defined later), and younger than you (or your spouse if filing jointly)
or
Any age and permanently and totally disabled (defined later)
Who isn't filing a joint return for 2024
or is filing a joint return for 2024 only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid (see Pub. 596 for examples)
Who lived with you in the United States for more than half of 2024.
You can't take the credit for a child who didn't live with you for more than half the year, even if you paid most of the child's living expenses. The IRS may ask you for documents to show you lived with each qualifying child. Documents you might want to keep for this purpose include school and child care records and other records that show your child's address.
If the child didn't live with you for more than half of 2024 because of a temporary absence, birth, death, or kidnapping, see Exception to time lived with you, later.
If the child meets the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person (other than your spouse, if filing a joint return) for 2024, see Qualifying child of more than one person, later. If the child was married, see Married child, later.
1. Do you have at least one child who meets the conditions to be your qualifying child for the purpose of claiming the EIC?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
Skip questions 2 through 6; go to Step 4.
2. Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
Skip questions 3 through 6 and Step 4; go to Step 5.
[ ]
No.
3. Are you a married taxpayer whose filing status is married filing separately or head of household?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
Skip questions 4 and 5; go to question 6.
4. Did you and your spouse have the same principal residence for the last 6 months of 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
Skip question 5; go to question 6.
5. Are you legally separated according to your state law under a written separation agreement or a decree of separate maintenance and you lived apart from your spouse at the end of 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can’t take the credit.
6. Could you be a qualifying child of another person for 2024? (Check “No” if the other person isn't required to file, and isn't filing, a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid (see Pub. 596 for examples).)
[ ]
Yes.
You can't take the credit. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to line 27.
[ ]
No.
Skip Step 4; go to Step 5.
Step 4. Filers Without a Qualifying Child
1. Are you a married taxpayer whose filing status is married filing separately or head of household?
[ ]
Yes.
You can’t take the credit.
[ ]
No.
2. Were you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, at least age 25 but under age 65 at the end of 2024? (Check “Yes” if you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, were born after December 31, 1959, and before January 2, 2000.) If your spouse died in 2024 or if you are preparing a return for someone who died in 2024, see Pub. 596 before you answer.
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can’t take the credit.
3. Was your main home, and your spouse's if filing a joint return, in the United States for more than half of 2024? Your main home can be any location where you regularly live. For examples, see Main home, later. Members of the military stationed outside the United States, see Members of the military, later, before you answer.
[ ]
Yes.
[ ]
No.
You can't take the credit. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to line 27.
4. Are you filing a joint return for 2024?
[ ]
Yes.
Skip questions 5 and 6; go to Step 5.
[ ]
No.
5.
Could you be a qualifying child of another person for 2024? (Check “No” if the other person isn't required to file, and isn't filing, a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid (see Pub. 596 for examples).)
[ ]
Yes.
You can't take the credit. Enter “No”
on the dotted line next to line 27.
[ ]
No.
6. Can you be claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2024 tax return? (If the person who could claim you on their 2024 tax return is not required to file, and isn't filing a 2024 tax return or is filing a 2024 return only to claim a refund of withheld income tax or estimated tax paid, check “No.”)
[ ]
Yes.
You can't take the credit.
[ ]
No.
Go to Step 5.
Step 5. Earned Income
1. Are you filing Schedule SE because you were a member of the clergy or you had church employee income of $108.28 or more?
[ ]
Yes.
See Clergy or Church employees, whichever applies.
[ ]
No.
Complete the following worksheet.
1.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z
1.
_____
2.
Enter the Medicaid waiver payment amounts excluded from income on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8s, unless you choose to include these amounts in earned income, in which case enter -0-. See the instructions for Schedule 1, line 8s.
2.
_____
If you and your spouse both received Medicaid waiver payments during the year, you and your spouse can make different choices about including the full amount of your payments in earned income. Enter only the amount of Medicaid waiver payments that you or your spouse, if filing a joint return, do not want to include in earned income. To include all nontaxable Medicaid waiver payment amounts in earned income, enter -0-.
3.
Subtract line 2 from line 1
3.
_____
4.
Enter all of your nontaxable combat pay if you elect to include it in earned income. Also enter the amount of your nontaxable combat pay on line 1i of Form 1040 or 1040-SR. See Combat pay, nontaxable, later
4.
_____
Electing to include nontaxable combat pay may increase or decrease your EIC. Figure the credit with and without your nontaxable combat pay before making the election.
5.
Add lines 3 and 4.
This is your earned income
5.
_____
2. Were you self-employed at any time in 2024, or are you filing Schedule SE because you were a member of the clergy or you had church employee income, or are you filing Schedule C as a statutory employee?
[ ]
Yes.
Skip question 3 and Step 6; go to Worksheet B.
[ ]
No.
3. If you have:
3 or more qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your earned income less than $59,899 ($66,819 if married filing jointly)?
2 qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your earned income less than $55,768 ($62,688 if married filing jointly)?
1 qualifying child who has a valid SSN, is your earned income less than $49,084 ($56,004 if married filing jointly)?
No qualifying children who have valid SSNs, is your earned income less than $18,591 ($25,511 if married filing jointly)?
[ ]
Yes.
Go to Step 6.
[ ]
No.
You can't take the credit.
Step 6. How To Figure the Credit
1. Do you want the IRS to figure the credit for you?
[ ]
Yes.
See Credit figured by the IRS, later.
[ ]
No.
Go to Worksheet A.
Definitions and Special Rules
Adopted child.
An adopted child is always treated as your own child. An adopted child includes a child lawfully placed with you for legal adoption.
Church employees.
Determine how much of the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, was also reported on Schedule SE, Part I, line 5a. Subtract that amount from the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a, and enter the result on line 1 of the worksheet in Step 5 (instead of entering the actual amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a). Be sure to answer “Yes” to question 2 in Step 5.
Clergy.
The following instructions apply to ministers, members of religious orders who have not taken a vow of poverty, and Christian Science practitioners. If you are filing Schedule SE and the amount on line 2 of that schedule includes an amount that was also reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z, do the following.
Enter “Clergy” on the dotted line next to line 27.
Determine how much of the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z, was also reported on Schedule SE, Part I, line 2.
Subtract that amount from the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z. Enter the result on line 1 of the worksheet in Step 5 (instead of entering the actual amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1z).
Be sure to answer “Yes” to question 2 in Step 5.
Combat pay, nontaxable.
If you were a member of the U.S. Armed Forces who served in a combat zone, certain pay is excluded from your income. See Combat Zone Exclusion in Pub. 3. You can elect to include this pay in your earned income when figuring the EIC. The amount of your nontaxable combat pay should be shown in box 12 of Form(s) W-2 with code Q. If you are filing a joint return and both you and your spouse received nontaxable combat pay, you can each make your own election. In other words, if one of you makes the election, the other one can also make it but doesn't have to.
If you elect to use your nontaxable combat pay in figuring your EIC, enter that amount on line 1i.
Credit figured by the IRS.
To have the IRS figure your EIC:
Enter “EIC” on the dotted line next to line 27.
Be sure you enter the nontaxable combat pay you elect to include in earned income by entering that amount on line 1i. See Combat pay, nontaxable, earlier.
If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC. If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see Form 8862, who must file, later.
Exception to time lived with you.
Temporary absences by you or the child for special circumstances, such as school, vacation, business, medical care, military service, or detention in a juvenile facility, count as time the child lived with you. Also see Kidnapped child under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, earlier, and Members of the military, later. A child is considered to have lived with you for more than half of 2024 if the child was born or died in 2024 and your home was this child's home for more than half the time the child was alive in 2024 or if you adopted the child in 2024, the child was lawfully placed with you for legal adoption by you in 2024, or the child was an eligible foster child placed with you during 2024 and your main home was the child's main home for more than half the time since the child was adopted or placed with you in 2024.
Form 4797 filers.
If the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 7, includes an amount from Form 4797, you must use Worksheet 1 in Pub. 596 to see if you can take the EIC. Otherwise, stop; you can't take the EIC.
Form 8862, who must file.
You must file Form 8862 if your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed for any reason other than a math or clerical error. But don’t file Form 8862 if either of the following applies.
You filed Form 8862 for another year, the EIC was allowed for that year, and your EIC hasn't been reduced or disallowed again for any reason other than a math or clerical error.
You are taking the EIC without a qualifying child and the only reason your EIC was reduced or disallowed in the other year was because it was determined that a child listed on Schedule EIC wasn't your qualifying child.
Also, don’t file Form 8862 or take the credit for the:
2 years after the most recent tax year for which there was a final determination that your EIC claim was due to reckless or intentional disregard of the EIC rules, or
10 years after the most recent tax year for which there was a final determination that your EIC claim was due to fraud.
Foster child.
A foster child is any child placed with you by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction. For more details on authorized placement agencies, see Pub. 596.
Main home.
Your main home may be your house, apartment, mobile home, shelter, temporary lodging, or other location and doesn't need to be the same physical location throughout 2024. You don't need a permanent address.
Married child.
A child who was married at the end of 2024 is a qualifying child only if (a) you can claim the child as your dependent, or (b) you could have claimed the child as your dependent except for the special rule for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, earlier.
Members of the military.
If you were on extended active duty outside the United States, your main home is considered to be in the United States during that duty period. Extended active duty is military duty ordered for an indefinite period or for a period of more than 90 days. Once you begin serving extended active duty, you are considered to be on extended active duty even if you don’t serve more than 90 days.
Nonresident aliens.
If you checked the box in the Filing Status section to treat a nonresident alien or dual-status alien spouse as a U.S. resident for the entire year, go to Step 2. Otherwise, stop; you can't take the EIC. Enter “No” on the dotted line next to line 27. See Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens, earlier.
Permanently and totally disabled.
A person is permanently and totally disabled if, at any time in 2024, the person couldn't engage in any substantial gainful activity because of a physical or mental condition and a doctor has determined that this condition (a) has lasted or can be expected to last continuously for at least a year, or (b) can be expected to lead to death.
Qualifying child of more than one person.
Even if a child meets the conditions to be the qualifying child of more than one person, only one person can claim the child as a qualifying child for all of the following tax benefits, unless the special rule for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, earlier, applies.
Child tax credit, credit for other dependents, and additional child tax credit (lines 19 and 28).
Head of household filing status.
Credit for child and dependent care expenses (Schedule 3, line 2).
Exclusion for dependent care benefits (Form 2441, Part III).
Earned income credit (line 27).
No other person can take any of the five tax benefits just listed based on the qualifying child. If you and any other person can claim the child as a qualifying child, the following rules apply. For purposes of these rules, the term “parent” means a biological or adoptive parent of an individual. It doesn't include a stepparent or foster parent unless that person has adopted the individual.
If, under these rules, you can't claim a child as a qualifying child for the EIC, you may be able to claim the EIC under the rules for a taxpayer without a qualifying child. For more information, see Pub. 596.
If only one of the persons is the child's parent, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the parent.
If the parents file a joint return together and can claim the child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the parents.
If the parents don’t file a joint return together but both parents claim the child as a qualifying child, the IRS will treat the child as the qualifying child of the parent with whom the child lived for the longer period of time in 2024. If the child lived with each parent for the same amount of time, the IRS will treat the child as the qualifying child of the parent who had the higher adjusted gross income (AGI) for 2024.
If no parent can claim the child as a qualifying child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2024.
If a parent can claim the child as a qualifying child but no parent does so claim the child, the child is treated as the qualifying child of the person who had the highest AGI for 2024, but only if that person's AGI is higher than the highest AGI of any parent of the child who can claim the child.
Example.
Your child, Lee, meets the conditions to be a qualifying child for both you and your parent. Lee doesn't meet the conditions to be a qualifying child of any other person, including Lee’s other parent. Under the rules just described, you can claim Lee as a qualifying child for all of the five tax benefits listed here for which you otherwise qualify. Your parent can't claim any of the five tax benefits listed here based on Lee. However, if your parent’s AGI is higher than yours and you don’t claim Lee as a qualifying child, Lee is the qualifying child of your parent.
For more details and examples, see Pub. 596.
Social security number (SSN).
For the EIC, a valid SSN is a number issued by the Social Security Administration unless “Not Valid for Employment” is printed on the social security card and the number was issued solely to allow the recipient of the SSN to apply for or receive a federally funded benefit. If “Not Valid for Employment” is printed on the social security card and the cardholder’s immigration status has changed so that they are now a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, ask the SSA for a new social security card without the legend. However, if “Valid for Work Only With DHS Authorization” is printed on your social security card, your SSN is valid for EIC purposes only as long as the DHS authorization is still valid.
To find out how to get an SSN, see Social Security Number (SSN) near the beginning of these instructions. If you won't have an SSN by the date your return is due, see What if You Can't File on Time?
If you didn't have an SSN issued on or before the due date of your 2024 return (including extensions), you can't claim the EIC on your original or an amended 2024 return. If a child didn't have an SSN issued on or before the due date of your return (including extensions), you can't count that child as a qualifying child in figuring the amount of the EIC on your original or an amended 2024 return.
Student.
A student is a child who during any part of 5 calendar months of 2024 was enrolled as a full-time student at a school or took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or a state, county, or local government agency. A school includes a technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school offering courses only through the Internet.
Welfare benefits, effect of credit on.
Any refund you receive as a result of taking the EIC can't be counted as income when determining if you or anyone else is eligible for benefits or assistance, or how much you or anyone else can receive, under any federal program or under any state or local program financed in whole or in part with federal funds. These programs include Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps). In addition, when determining eligibility, the refund can't be counted as a resource for at least 12 months after you receive it. Check with your local benefit coordinator to find out if your refund will affect your benefits.
Worksheet A-Earned Income Credit (EIC)
Worksheet A—2024 EIC—Line 27
Worksheet A—2024 EIC—Line 27
Summary: This flowchart represents the worksheet information listed on Worksheet A to determine your Earned Income Credit.
Start
This is the beginning of the flowchart.
Process (a)
Before you begin: Be sure you are using the correct worksheet. Use this worksheet only if you answered "No" to Step 5, question 2. Otherwise, use Worksheet B.
Continue To Process (b)
Process (b)
Part 1. All Filers Using Worksheet A
Continue To Process (c)
Process (c)
1. Enter your earned income from Step 5.
Continue To Process (d)
Process (d)
2. Look up the amount on line 1 above in the EIC Table (right after Worksheet B) to find the credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid SSN as defined earlier. Enter the credit here.
Continue To Decision (1)
Decision (1)
Is line 2 zero?
IF Yes Continue To Process (e)
IF No Continue To Process (f)
Process (e)
Stop. You can't take the credit. Enter "No" on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Continue To End
Process (f)
3. Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.
Continue To Decision (2)
Decision (2)
4. Are the amounts on lines 3 and 1 the same?
IF Yes Continue To Process (g)
IF No Continue To Process (h)
Process (g)
Skip line 5; enter the amount from line 2 on line 6.
Continue To Process (m)
Process (h)
Go to line 5.
Continue To Process (i)
Process (i)
Part 2. Filers Who Answered "No" on Line 4.
Continue To Decision (3)
Decision (3)
5. Do you have qualifying children who have a valid SSN?
IF Yes Continue To Decision (4)
IF No Continue To Decision (5)
Decision (4)
Is the amount on line 3 less than $22,720 ($29,640 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (j)
IF No Continue To Process (k)
Decision (5)
Is the amount on line 3 less than $10,330 ($17,250) if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (j)
IF No Continue To Process (k)
Process (j)
Leave line 5 blank; enter the amount from line 2 on line 6.
Continue To Process (m)
Process (k)
Look up the amount on line 3 in the EIC Table to find the credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid SSN. Enter the credit here.
Continue To Process (l)
Process (l)
Look at the amounts on lines 5 and 2. Then, enter the smaller amount on line 6.
Continue To Process (m)
Process (m)
Part 3. Your Earned Income Credit
Continue To Process (n)
Process (n)
6. This is your earned income credit. Enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Continue To Process (o)
Process (o)
Reminder—If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC.
CAUTION! If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see "Form 8862, who must file", earlier, to find out if you must file Form 8862 to take the credit for 2024.
Continue To End
End
This is the end of the flowchart.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
Worksheet B-Earned Income Credit (EIC)
Worksheet B—2024 EIC —Lines 27
Worksheet B—2024 EIC —Lines 27
Summary: This flowchart represents the worksheet information listed on Worksheet B, page 1, to determine your Earned Income Credit.
Start
This is the beginning of the flowchart.
Process (a)
Use this worksheet if you answered "Yes" to Step 5, questions 2.
Complete the parts below (Parts 1 through 3) that apply to you. Then, continue to Part 4.
If you are married filing a joint return, include your spouse's amounts, if any, with yours to figure the amounts to enter in Parts 1 through 3.
Continue To Decision (1)
Decision (1)
Are you self-employed, a member of the clergy, or have church employee income and filing Schedule SE?
IF Yes Continue To Process (b)
IF No Continue To Decision (2)
Process (b)
PART 1: 1a. Enter the amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 3.
Continue To Process (c)
Process (c)
1b. Enter any amount from Schedule SE, Part I, line 4b and line 5a.
Continue To Process (d)
Process (d)
1c. Combine lines 1a and 1b.
Continue To Process (e)
Process (e)
1d. Enter the amount form Schedule SE, Part I, line 13.
Continue To Process (f)
Process (f)
1e. Subtract line 1d from 1c.
Continue To Process (g)
Process (g)
Continue To Decision (2)
Decision (2)
Are you self-employed and NOT required to file Schedule SE? For example, your net earnings from self-employment were less than $400.
IF Yes Continue To Process (h)
IF No Continue To Process (l)
Process (h)
PART 2: 2. Don’t include on these lines any statutory employee income, any net profit from services performed as notary public, any amount exempt from self-employment tax as the result of the filing and approval of Form 4029 or Form 4361, or any other amounts exempt from self-employment tax.
Continue To Process (i)
Process (i)
2a. Enter any net farm profit or (loss) from Schedule F, line 34; and from farm partnerships, Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A*.
Footnote: If you have any Schedule K-1 amounts, complete the appropriate line(s) of Schedule SE, Part I. Reduce the Schedule K-1 amounts as described in the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1. Enter your name and social security number on Schedule SE and attach it to your return.
Continue To Process (j)
Process (j)
2b. Enter any net profit or (loss) from Schedule C, line 31; and Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A (other than farming)*.
Footnote: If you have any Schedule K-1 amounts, complete the appropriate line(s) of Schedule SE, Part I. Reduce the Schedule K-1 amounts as described in the Partner's Instructions for Schedule K-1. Enter your name and social security number on Schedule SE and attach it to your return.
Continue To Process (k)
Process (k)
2c. Combine lines 2a and 2b.
Continue To Process (l)
Process (l)
Part 3: For Statutory Employees Filing Schedule C. 3. Enter the amount from Schedule C, line 1, that you are filing as a statutory employee.
Continue To Process (m)
Process (m)
Part 4: For All Filers Using Worksheet B. Note. If line 4b includes income on which you should have paid self-employment tax but didn’t, we may reduce your credit by the amount of self-employment tax not paid. 4a. Enter your earned income from Step 5.
Continue To Process (n)
Process (n)
4b. Combine lines 1e, 2c, 3, and 4a. This is your total earned income.
Continue To Decision (3)
Decision (3)
Is line 4b zero or less?
IF Yes Continue To Process (o)
IF No Continue To Decision (4)
Process (o)
STOP. You can’t take the credit. Enter "No" on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Continue To End
Decision (4)
Do you have any qualifying children who have valid SSNs?
IF Yes Continue To Decision (6)
IF No Continue To Decision (5)
Decision (5)
Is line 4b less than $18,591 ($25,511 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (p)
IF No Continue To Process (q)
Process (p)
If you want the Internal Revenue Service to figure your credit, see "Credit figured by the IRS", earlier. If you want to figure the credit yourself, enter the amount from line 4b on line 6 of this worksheet.
Continue To End
Process (q)
STOP. You cannot take the credit. Enter "No" on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Continue To End
Decision (6)
Do you have 3 or more qualifying children who have valid SSNs?
IF Yes Continue To Decision (7)
IF No Continue To Decision (8)
Decision (7)
Is line 4b less than $59,899 ($66,819 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (p)
IF No Continue To Process (q)
Decision (8)
Do you have 2 qualifying children who have valid SSNs?
IF Yes Continue To Decision (9)
IF No Continue To Decision (10)
Decision (9)
Is line 4b less than $55,768 ($62,688 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (p)
IF No Continue To Process (q)
Decision (10)
Is line 4b less than $49,084 ($56,004 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (p)
IF No Continue To Process (q)
End
This is the end of the flowchart.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
Worksheet B (continued)-Earned Income Credit (EIC)
Worksheet B—EIC (Continued)
Worksheet B—EIC (Continued)
Summary: This flowchart represents the worksheet information listed on Worksheet B, page 2. It is a continuation of the previous page.
Start
This is the beginning of the flowchart.
Process (a)
Part 5. All Filers Using Worksheet B.
Continue To Process (b)
Process (b)
6. Enter your total earned income from Part 4, line 4b.
Continue To Process (c)
Process (c)
7. Look up the amount on line 6 above in the EIC Table to find the credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid SSN. Enter the credit here.
Continue To Decision (1)
Decision (1)
Is line 7 zero?
IF Yes Continue To Process (d)
IF No Continue To Process (e)
Process (d)
STOP. You can’t take the credit. Enter "No" on the dotted line next to Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Continue To End
Process (e)
8. Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.
Continue To Decision (2)
Decision (2)
9. Are the amounts on lines 8 and 6 the same?
IF Yes Continue To Process (f)
IF No Continue To Process (g)
Process (f)
Skip line 10; enter the amount from line 7 on line 11.
Continue To Process (k)
Process (g)
Part 6--Filers Who Answered "No" on Line 9
Continue To Decision (3)
Decision (3)
Do you have any qualifying children?
IF Yes Continue To Decision (4)
IF No Continue To Decision (5)
Decision (4)
Is the amount on line 8 less than $22,720 ($29,640 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (g)
IF No Continue To Process (h)
Decision (5)
Is the amount on line 8 less than $10,330 ($17,250 if married filing jointly)?
IF Yes Continue To Process (h)
IF No Continue To Process (i)
Process (h)
Leave line 10 blank; enter the amount from line 7 on line 11.
Continue To Process (k)
Process (i)
Look up the amount on line 8 in the EIC table to find the credit. Be sure you use the correct column for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who have a valid SSN. Enter the credit here.
Continue To Process (j)
Process (j)
Look at the amounts on line 10 and 7. Then, enter the smaller amount on line 11.
Continue To Process (k)
Process (k)
Part 7: Your Earned Income Credit. 11. This is your earned income credit. Enter this amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 27.
Continue To Process (l)
Process (l)
Reminder—If you have a qualifying child, complete and attach Schedule EIC.
CAUTION! If your EIC for a year after 1996 was reduced or disallowed, see Form 8862, who must file, to find out if you must file Form 8862 to take the credit for 2024.
Continue To End
End
This is the end of the flowchart.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
EIC Table
2024 Earned Income Credit (EIC) Table
Caution. This is not a tax table.
EIC Table Excerpt Example
EIC Table Excerpt Example
EIC Table Excerpt Example
EIC Table Excerpt Example
Please click here for the text description of the image.
1. To find your credit, read down the “At least - But less than” columns and find the line that includes the amount you were told to look up from your EIC Worksheet.
2. Then, go to the column that includes your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who have valid SSNs as defined earlier. Enter the credit from that column on your EIC Worksheet.
Example. If your filing status is single, you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, and the amount you are looking up from your EIC Worksheet is $2,455, you would enter $842.
And your filing status is–
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is–
Single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse★ and you have–
★ Use this column if your filing status is married filing separately and you qualify to claim the EIC. See the instructions for line 27.
Married filing jointly and you have–
0
1
2
3
0
1
2
3
At least
But less than
Your credit is–
Your credit is–
1
50
2
9
10
11
2
9
10
11
50
100
6
26
30
34
6
26
30
34
100
150
10
43
50
56
10
43
50
56
150
200
13
60
70
79
13
60
70
79
200
250
17
77
90
101
17
77
90
101
250
300
21
94
110
124
21
94
110
124
300
350
25
111
130
146
25
111
130
146
350
400
29
128
150
169
29
128
150
169
400
450
33
145
170
191
33
145
170
191
450
500
36
162
190
214
36
162
190
214
500
550
40
179
210
236
40
179
210
236
550
600
44
196
230
259
44
196
230
259
600
650
48
213
250
281
48
213
250
281
650
700
52
230
270
304
52
230
270
304
700
750
55
247
290
326
55
247
290
326
750
800
59
264
310
349
59
264
310
349
800
850
63
281
330
371
63
281
330
371
850
900
67
298
350
394
67
298
350
394
900
950
71
315
370
416
71
315
370
416
950
1,000
75
332
390
439
75
332
390
439
1,000
1,050
78
349
410
461
78
349
410
461
1,050
1,100
82
366
430
484
82
366
430
484
1,100
1,150
86
383
450
506
86
383
450
506
1,150
1,200
90
400
470
529
90
400
470
529
1,200
1,250
94
417
490
551
94
417
490
551
1,250
1,300
98
434
510
574
98
434
510
574
1,300
1,350
101
451
530
596
101
451
530
596
1,350
1,400
105
468
550
619
105
468
550
619
1,400
1,450
109
485
570
641
109
485
570
641
1,450
1,500
113
502
590
664
113
502
590
664
1,500
1,550
117
519
610
686
117
519
610
686
1,550
1,600
120
536
630
709
120
536
630
709
1,600
1,650
124
553
650
731
124
553
650
731
1,650
1,700
128
570
670
754
128
570
670
754
1,700
1,750
132
587
690
776
132
587
690
776
1,750
1,800
136
604
710
799
136
604
710
799
1,800
1,850
140
621
730
821
140
621
730
821
1,850
1,900
143
638
750
844
143
638
750
844
1,900
1,950
147
655
770
866
147
655
770
866
1,950
2,000
151
672
790
889
151
672
790
889
2,000
2,050
155
689
810
911
155
689
810
911
2,050
2,100
159
706
830
934
159
706
830
934
2,100
2,150
163
723
850
956
163
723
850
956
2,150
2,200
166
740
870
979
166
740
870
979
2,200
2,250
170
757
890
1,001
170
757
890
1,001
2,250
2,300
174
774
910
1,024
174
774
910
1,024
2,300
2,350
178
791
930
1,046
178
791
930
1,046
2,350
2,400
182
808
950
1,069
182
808
950
1,069
2,400
2,450
186
825
970
1,091
186
825
970
1,091
2,450
2,500
189
842
990
1,114
189
842
990
1,114
2,500
2,550
193
859
1,010
1,136
193
859
1,010
1,136
2,550
2,600
197
876
1,030
1,159
197
876
1,030
1,159
2,600
2,650
201
893
1,050
1,181
201
893
1,050
1,181
2,650
2,700
205
910
1,070
1,204
205
910
1,070
1,204
2,700
2,750
208
927
1,090
1,226
208
927
1,090
1,226
2,750
2,800
212
944
1,110
1,249
212
944
1,110
1,249
2,800
2,850
216
961
1,130
1,271
216
961
1,130
1,271
2,850
2,900
220
978
1,150
1,294
220
978
1,150
1,294
2,900
2,950
224
995
1,170
1,316
224
995
1,170
1,316
2,950
3,000
228
1,012
1,190
1,339
228
1,012
1,190
1,339
3,000
3,050
231
1,029
1,210
1,361
231
1,029
1,210
1,361
3,050
3,100
235
1,046
1,230
1,384
235
1,046
1,230
1,384
3,100
3,150
239
1,063
1,250
1,406
239
1,063
1,250
1,406
3,150
3,200
243
1,080
1,270
1,429
243
1,080
1,270
1,429
3,200
3,250
247
1,097
1,290
1,451
247
1,097
1,290
1,451
3,250
3,300
251
1,114
1,310
1,474
251
1,114
1,310
1,474
3,300
3,350
254
1,131
1,330
1,496
254
1,131
1,330
1,496
3,350
3,400
258
1,148
1,350
1,519
258
1,148
1,350
1,519
3,400
3,450
262
1,165
1,370
1,541
262
1,165
1,370
1,541
3,450
3,500
266
1,182
1,390
1,564
266
1,182
1,390
1,564
3,500
3,550
270
1,199
1,410
1,586
270
1,199
1,410
1,586
3,550
3,600
273
1,216
1,430
1,609
273
1,216
1,430
1,609
3,600
3,650
277
1,233
1,450
1,631
277
1,233
1,450
1,631
3,650
3,700
281
1,250
1,470
1,654
281
1,250
1,470
1,654
3,700
3,750
285
1,267
1,490
1,676
285
1,267
1,490
1,676
3,750
3,800
289
1,284
1,510
1,699
289
1,284
1,510
1,699
3,800
3,850
293
1,301
1,530
1,721
293
1,301
1,530
1,721
3,850
3,900
296
1,318
1,550
1,744
296
1,318
1,550
1,744
3,900
3,950
300
1,335
1,570
1,766
300
1,335
1,570
1,766
3,950
4,000
304
1,352
1,590
1,789
304
1,352
1,590
1,789
4,000
4,050
308
1,369
1,610
1,811
308
1,369
1,610
1,811
4,050
4,100
312
1,386
1,630
1,834
312
1,386
1,630
1,834
4,100
4,150
316
1,403
1,650
1,856
316
1,403
1,650
1,856
4,150
4,200
319
1,420
1,670
1,879
319
1,420
1,670
1,879
4,200
4,250
323
1,437
1,690
1,901
323
1,437
1,690
1,901
4,250
4,300
327
1,454
1,710
1,924
327
1,454
1,710
1,924
4,300
4,350
331
1,471
1,730
1,946
331
1,471
1,730
1,946
4,350
4,400
335
1,488
1,750
1,969
335
1,488
1,750
1,969
4,400
4,450
339
1,505
1,770
1,991
339
1,505
1,770
1,991
4,450
4,500
342
1,522
1,790
2,014
342
1,522
1,790
2,014
4,500
4,550
346
1,539
1,810
2,036
346
1,539
1,810
2,036
4,550
4,600
350
1,556
1,830
2,059
350
1,556
1,830
2,059
4,600
4,650
354
1,573
1,850
2,081
354
1,573
1,850
2,081
4,650
4,700
358
1,590
1,870
2,104
358
1,590
1,870
2,104
4,700
4,750
361
1,607
1,890
2,126
361
1,607
1,890
2,126
4,750
4,800
365
1,624
1,910
2,149
365
1,624
1,910
2,149
4,800
4,850
369
1,641
1,930
2,171
369
1,641
1,930
2,171
4,850
4,900
373
1,658
1,950
2,194
373
1,658
1,950
2,194
4,900
4,950
377
1,675
1,970
2,216
377
1,675
1,970
2,216
4,950
5,000
381
1,692
1,990
2,239
381
1,692
1,990
2,239
5,000
5,050
384
1,709
2,010
2,261
384
1,709
2,010
2,261
5,050
5,100
388
1,726
2,030
2,284
388
1,726
2,030
2,284
5,100
5,150
392
1,743
2,050
2,306
392
1,743
2,050
2,306
5,150
5,200
396
1,760
2,070
2,329
396
1,760
2,070
2,329
5,200
5,250
400
1,777
2,090
2,351
400
1,777
2,090
2,351
5,250
5,300
404
1,794
2,110
2,374
404
1,794
2,110
2,374
5,300
5,350
407
1,811
2,130
2,396
407
1,811
2,130
2,396
5,350
5,400
411
1,828
2,150
2,419
411
1,828
2,150
2,419
5,400
5,450
415
1,845
2,170
2,441
415
1,845
2,170
2,441
5,450
5,500
419
1,862
2,190
2,464
419
1,862
2,190
2,464
5,500
5,550
423
1,879
2,210
2,486
423
1,879
2,210
2,486
5,550
5,600
426
1,896
2,230
2,509
426
1,896
2,230
2,509
5,600
5,650
430
1,913
2,250
2,531
430
1,913
2,250
2,531
5,650
5,700
434
1,930
2,270
2,554
434
1,930
2,270
2,554
5,700
5,750
438
1,947
2,290
2,576
438
1,947
2,290
2,576
5,750
5,800
442
1,964
2,310
2,599
442
1,964
2,310
2,599
5,800
5,850
446
1,981
2,330
2,621
446
1,981
2,330
2,621
5,850
5,900
449
1,998
2,350
2,644
449
1,998
2,350
2,644
5,900
5,950
453
2,015
2,370
2,666
453
2,015
2,370
2,666
5,950
6,000
457
2,032
2,390
2,689
457
2,032
2,390
2,689
6,000
6,050
461
2,049
2,410
2,711
461
2,049
2,410
2,711
6,050
6,100
465
2,066
2,430
2,734
465
2,066
2,430
2,734
6,100
6,150
469
2,083
2,450
2,756
469
2,083
2,450
2,756
6,150
6,200
472
2,100
2,470
2,779
472
2,100
2,470
2,779
6,200
6,250
476
2,117
2,490
2,801
476
2,117
2,490
2,801
6,250
6,300
480
2,134
2,510
2,824
480
2,134
2,510
2,824
6,300
6,350
484
2,151
2,530
2,846
484
2,151
2,530
2,846
6,350
6,400
488
2,168
2,550
2,869
488
2,168
2,550
2,869
6,400
6,450
492
2,185
2,570
2,891
492
2,185
2,570
2,891
6,450
6,500
495
2,202
2,590
2,914
495
2,202
2,590
2,914
6,500
6,550
499
2,219
2,610
2,936
499
2,219
2,610
2,936
6,550
6,600
503
2,236
2,630
2,959
503
2,236
2,630
2,959
6,600
6,650
507
2,253
2,650
2,981
507
2,253
2,650
2,981
6,650
6,700
511
2,270
2,670
3,004
511
2,270
2,670
3,004
6,700
6,750
514
2,287
2,690
3,026
514
2,287
2,690
3,026
6,750
6,800
518
2,304
2,710
3,049
518
2,304
2,710
3,049
6,800
6,850
522
2,321
2,730
3,071
522
2,321
2,730
3,071
6,850
6,900
526
2,338
2,750
3,094
526
2,338
2,750
3,094
6,900
6,950
530
2,355
2,770
3,116
530
2,355
2,770
3,116
6,950
7,000
534
2,372
2,790
3,139
534
2,372
2,790
3,139
7,000
7,050
537
2,389
2,810
3,161
537
2,389
2,810
3,161
7,050
7,100
541
2,406
2,830
3,184
541
2,406
2,830
3,184
7,100
7,150
545
2,423
2,850
3,206
545
2,423
2,850
3,206
7,150
7,200
549
2,440
2,870
3,229
549
2,440
2,870
3,229
7,200
7,250
553
2,457
2,890
3,251
553
2,457
2,890
3,251
7,250
7,300
557
2,474
2,910
3,274
557
2,474
2,910
3,274
7,300
7,350
560
2,491
2,930
3,296
560
2,491
2,930
3,296
7,350
7,400
564
2,508
2,950
3,319
564
2,508
2,950
3,319
7,400
7,450
568
2,525
2,970
3,341
568
2,525
2,970
3,341
7,450
7,500
572
2,542
2,990
3,364
572
2,542
2,990
3,364
7,500
7,550
576
2,559
3,010
3,386
576
2,559
3,010
3,386
7,550
7,600
579
2,576
3,030
3,409
579
2,576
3,030
3,409
7,600
7,650
583
2,593
3,050
3,431
583
2,593
3,050
3,431
7,650
7,700
587
2,610
3,070
3,454
587
2,610
3,070
3,454
7,700
7,750
591
2,627
3,090
3,476
591
2,627
3,090
3,476
7,750
7,800
595
2,644
3,110
3,499
595
2,644
3,110
3,499
7,800
7,850
599
2,661
3,130
3,521
599
2,661
3,130
3,521
7,850
7,900
602
2,678
3,150
3,544
602
2,678
3,150
3,544
7,900
7,950
606
2,695
3,170
3,566
606
2,695
3,170
3,566
7,950
8,000
610
2,712
3,190
3,589
610
2,712
3,190
3,589
8,000
8,050
614
2,729
3,210
3,611
614
2,729
3,210
3,611
8,050
8,100
618
2,746
3,230
3,634
618
2,746
3,230
3,634
8,100
8,150
622
2,763
3,250
3,656
622
2,763
3,250
3,656
8,150
8,200
625
2,780
3,270
3,679
625
2,780
3,270
3,679
8,200
8,250
629
2,797
3,290
3,701
629
2,797
3,290
3,701
8,250
8,300
632
2,814
3,310
3,724
632
2,814
3,310
3,724
8,300
8,350
632
2,831
3,330
3,746
632
2,831
3,330
3,746
8,350
8,400
632
2,848
3,350
3,769
632
2,848
3,350
3,769
8,400
8,450
632
2,865
3,370
3,791
632
2,865
3,370
3,791
8,450
8,500
632
2,882
3,390
3,814
632
2,882
3,390
3,814
8,500
8,550
632
2,899
3,410
3,836
632
2,899
3,410
3,836
8,550
8,600
632
2,916
3,430
3,859
632
2,916
3,430
3,859
8,600
8,650
632
2,933
3,450
3,881
632
2,933
3,450
3,881
8,650
8,700
632
2,950
3,470
3,904
632
2,950
3,470
3,904
8,700
8,750
632
2,967
3,490
3,926
632
2,967
3,490
3,926
8,750
8,800
632
2,984
3,510
3,949
632
2,984
3,510
3,949
8,800
8,850
632
3,001
3,530
3,971
632
3,001
3,530
3,971
8,850
8,900
632
3,018
3,550
3,994
632
3,018
3,550
3,994
8,900
8,950
632
3,035
3,570
4,016
632
3,035
3,570
4,016
8,950
9,000
632
3,052
3,590
4,039
632
3,052
3,590
4,039
9,000
9,050
632
3,069
3,610
4,061
632
3,069
3,610
4,061
9,050
9,100
632
3,086
3,630
4,084
632
3,086
3,630
4,084
9,100
9,150
632
3,103
3,650
4,106
632
3,103
3,650
4,106
9,150
9,200
632
3,120
3,670
4,129
632
3,120
3,670
4,129
9,200
9,250
632
3,137
3,690
4,151
632
3,137
3,690
4,151
9,250
9,300
632
3,154
3,710
4,174
632
3,154
3,710
4,174
9,300
9,350
632
3,171
3,730
4,196
632
3,171
3,730
4,196
9,350
9,400
632
3,188
3,750
4,219
632
3,188
3,750
4,219
9,400
9,450
632
3,205
3,770
4,241
632
3,205
3,770
4,241
9,450
9,500
632
3,222
3,790
4,264
632
3,222
3,790
4,264
9,500
9,550
632
3,239
3,810
4,286
632
3,239
3,810
4,286
9,550
9,600
632
3,256
3,830
4,309
632
3,256
3,830
4,309
9,600
9,650
632
3,273
3,850
4,331
632
3,273
3,850
4,331
9,650
9,700
632
3,290
3,870
4,354
632
3,290
3,870
4,354
9,700
9,750
632
3,307
3,890
4,376
632
3,307
3,890
4,376
9,750
9,800
632
3,324
3,910
4,399
632
3,324
3,910
4,399
9,800
9,850
632
3,341
3,930
4,421
632
3,341
3,930
4,421
9,850
9,900
632
3,358
3,950
4,444
632
3,358
3,950
4,444
9,900
9,950
632
3,375
3,970
4,466
632
3,375
3,970
4,466
9,950
10,000
632
3,392
3,990
4,489
632
3,392
3,990
4,489
10,000
10,050
632
3,409
4,010
4,511
632
3,409
4,010
4,511
10,050
10,100
632
3,426
4,030
4,534
632
3,426
4,030
4,534
10,100
10,150
632
3,443
4,050
4,556
632
3,443
4,050
4,556
10,150
10,200
632
3,460
4,070
4,579
632
3,460
4,070
4,579
10,200
10,250
632
3,477
4,090
4,601
632
3,477
4,090
4,601
10,250
10,300
632
3,494
4,110
4,624
632
3,494
4,110
4,624
10,300
10,350
632
3,511
4,130
4,646
632
3,511
4,130
4,646
10,350
10,400
629
3,528
4,150
4,669
632
3,528
4,150
4,669
10,400
10,450
625
3,545
4,170
4,691
632
3,545
4,170
4,691
10,450
10,500
621
3,562
4,190
4,714
632
3,562
4,190
4,714
10,500
10,550
617
3,579
4,210
4,736
632
3,579
4,210
4,736
10,550
10,600
613
3,596
4,230
4,759
632
3,596
4,230
4,759
10,600
10,650
609
3,613
4,250
4,781
632
3,613
4,250
4,781
10,650
10,700
606
3,630
4,270
4,804
632
3,630
4,270
4,804
10,700
10,750
602
3,647
4,290
4,826
632
3,647
4,290
4,826
10,750
10,800
598
3,664
4,310
4,849
632
3,664
4,310
4,849
10,800
10,850
594
3,681
4,330
4,871
632
3,681
4,330
4,871
10,850
10,900
590
3,698
4,350
4,894
632
3,698
4,350
4,894
10,900
10,950
586
3,715
4,370
4,916
632
3,715
4,370
4,916
10,950
11,000
583
3,732
4,390
4,939
632
3,732
4,390
4,939
11,000
11,050
579
3,749
4,410
4,961
632
3,749
4,410
4,961
11,050
11,100
575
3,766
4,430
4,984
632
3,766
4,430
4,984
11,100
11,150
571
3,783
4,450
5,006
632
3,783
4,450
5,006
11,150
11,200
567
3,800
4,470
5,029
632
3,800
4,470
5,029
11,200
11,250
564
3,817
4,490
5,051
632
3,817
4,490
5,051
11,250
11,300
560
3,834
4,510
5,074
632
3,834
4,510
5,074
11,300
11,350
556
3,851
4,530
5,096
632
3,851
4,530
5,096
11,350
11,400
552
3,868
4,550
5,119
632
3,868
4,550
5,119
11,400
11,450
548
3,885
4,570
5,141
632
3,885
4,570
5,141
11,450
11,500
544
3,902
4,590
5,164
632
3,902
4,590
5,164
11,500
11,550
541
3,919
4,610
5,186
632
3,919
4,610
5,186
11,550
11,600
537
3,936
4,630
5,209
632
3,936
4,630
5,209
11,600
11,650
533
3,953
4,650
5,231
632
3,953
4,650
5,231
11,650
11,700
529
3,970
4,670
5,254
632
3,970
4,670
5,254
11,700
11,750
525
3,987
4,690
5,276
632
3,987
4,690
5,276
11,750
11,800
521
4,004
4,710
5,299
632
4,004
4,710
5,299
11,800
11,850
518
4,021
4,730
5,321
632
4,021
4,730
5,321
11,850
11,900
514
4,038
4,750
5,344
632
4,038
4,750
5,344
11,900
11,950
510
4,055
4,770
5,366
632
4,055
4,770
5,366
11,950
12,000
506
4,072
4,790
5,389
632
4,072
4,790
5,389
12,000
12,050
502
4,089
4,810
5,411
632
4,089
4,810
5,411
12,050
12,100
499
4,106
4,830
5,434
632
4,106
4,830
5,434
12,100
12,150
495
4,123
4,850
5,456
632
4,123
4,850
5,456
12,150
12,200
491
4,140
4,870
5,479
632
4,140
4,870
5,479
12,200
12,250
487
4,157
4,890
5,501
632
4,157
4,890
5,501
12,250
12,300
483
4,174
4,910
5,524
632
4,174
4,910
5,524
12,300
12,350
479
4,191
4,930
5,546
632
4,191
4,930
5,546
12,350
12,400
476
4,213
4,950
5,569
632
4,213
4,950
5,569
12,400
12,450
472
4,213
4,970
5,591
632
4,213
4,970
5,591
12,450
12,500
468
4,213
4,990
5,614
632
4,213
4,990
5,614
12,500
12,550
464
4,213
5,010
5,636
632
4,213
5,010
5,636
12,550
12,600
460
4,213
5,030
5,659
632
4,213
5,030
5,659
12,600
12,650
456
4,213
5,050
5,681
632
4,213
5,050
5,681
12,650
12,700
453
4,213
5,070
5,704
632
4,213
5,070
5,704
12,700
12,750
449
4,213
5,090
5,726
632
4,213
5,090
5,726
12,750
12,800
445
4,213
5,110
5,749
632
4,213
5,110
5,749
12,800
12,850
441
4,213
5,130
5,771
632
4,213
5,130
5,771
12,850
12,900
437
4,213
5,150
5,794
632
4,213
5,150
5,794
12,900
12,950
433
4,213
5,170
5,816
632
4,213
5,170
5,816
12,950
13,000
430
4,213
5,190
5,839
632
4,213
5,190
5,839
13,000
13,050
426
4,213
5,210
5,861
632
4,213
5,210
5,861
13,050
13,100
422
4,213
5,230
5,884
632
4,213
5,230
5,884
13,100
13,150
418
4,213
5,250
5,906
632
4,213
5,250
5,906
13,150
13,200
414
4,213
5,270
5,929
632
4,213
5,270
5,929
13,200
13,250
411
4,213
5,290
5,951
632
4,213
5,290
5,951
13,250
13,300
407
4,213
5,310
5,974
632
4,213
5,310
5,974
13,300
13,350
403
4,213
5,330
5,996
632
4,213
5,330
5,996
13,350
13,400
399
4,213
5,350
6,019
632
4,213
5,350
6,019
13,400
13,450
395
4,213
5,370
6,041
632
4,213
5,370
6,041
13,450
13,500
391
4,213
5,390
6,064
632
4,213
5,390
6,064
13,500
13,550
388
4,213
5,410
6,086
632
4,213
5,410
6,086
13,550
13,600
384
4,213
5,430
6,109
632
4,213
5,430
6,109
13,600
13,650
380
4,213
5,450
6,131
632
4,213
5,450
6,131
13,650
13,700
376
4,213
5,470
6,154
632
4,213
5,470
6,154
13,700
13,750
372
4,213
5,490
6,176
632
4,213
5,490
6,176
13,750
13,800
368
4,213
5,510
6,199
632
4,213
5,510
6,199
13,800
13,850
365
4,213
5,530
6,221
632
4,213
5,530
6,221
13,850
13,900
361
4,213
5,550
6,244
632
4,213
5,550
6,244
13,900
13,950
357
4,213
5,570
6,266
632
4,213
5,570
6,266
13,950
14,000
353
4,213
5,590
6,289
632
4,213
5,590
6,289
14,000
14,050
349
4,213
5,610
6,311
632
4,213
5,610
6,311
14,050
14,100
346
4,213
5,630
6,334
632
4,213
5,630
6,334
14,100
14,150
342
4,213
5,650
6,356
632
4,213
5,650
6,356
14,150
14,200
338
4,213
5,670
6,379
632
4,213
5,670
6,379
14,200
14,250
334
4,213
5,690
6,401
632
4,213
5,690
6,401
14,250
14,300
330
4,213
5,710
6,424
632
4,213
5,710
6,424
14,300
14,350
326
4,213
5,730
6,446
632
4,213
5,730
6,446
14,350
14,400
323
4,213
5,750
6,469
632
4,213
5,750
6,469
14,400
14,450
319
4,213
5,770
6,491
632
4,213
5,770
6,491
14,450
14,500
315
4,213
5,790
6,514
632
4,213
5,790
6,514
14,500
14,550
311
4,213
5,810
6,536
632
4,213
5,810
6,536
14,550
14,600
307
4,213
5,830
6,559
632
4,213
5,830
6,559
14,600
14,650
303
4,213
5,850
6,581
632
4,213
5,850
6,581
14,650
14,700
300
4,213
5,870
6,604
632
4,213
5,870
6,604
14,700
14,750
296
4,213
5,890
6,626
632
4,213
5,890
6,626
14,750
14,800
292
4,213
5,910
6,649
632
4,213
5,910
6,649
14,800
14,850
288
4,213
5,930
6,671
632
4,213
5,930
6,671
14,850
14,900
284
4,213
5,950
6,694
632
4,213
5,950
6,694
14,900
14,950
280
4,213
5,970
6,716
632
4,213
5,970
6,716
14,950
15,000
277
4,213
5,990
6,739
632
4,213
5,990
6,739
15,000
15,050
273
4,213
6,010
6,761
632
4,213
6,010
6,761
15,050
15,100
269
4,213
6,030
6,784
632
4,213
6,030
6,784
15,100
15,150
265
4,213
6,050
6,806
632
4,213
6,050
6,806
15,150
15,200
261
4,213
6,070
6,829
632
4,213
6,070
6,829
15,200
15,250
258
4,213
6,090
6,851
632
4,213
6,090
6,851
15,250
15,300
254
4,213
6,110
6,874
632
4,213
6,110
6,874
15,300
15,350
250
4,213
6,130
6,896
632
4,213
6,130
6,896
15,350
15,400
246
4,213
6,150
6,919
632
4,213
6,150
6,919
15,400
15,450
242
4,213
6,170
6,941
632
4,213
6,170
6,941
15,450
15,500
238
4,213
6,190
6,964
632
4,213
6,190
6,964
15,500
15,550
235
4,213
6,210
6,986
632
4,213
6,210
6,986
15,550
15,600
231
4,213
6,230
7,009
632
4,213
6,230
7,009
15,600
15,650
227
4,213
6,250
7,031
632
4,213
6,250
7,031
15,650
15,700
223
4,213
6,270
7,054
632
4,213
6,270
7,054
15,700
15,750
219
4,213
6,290
7,076
632
4,213
6,290
7,076
15,750
15,800
215
4,213
6,310
7,099
632
4,213
6,310
7,099
15,800
15,850
212
4,213
6,330
7,121
632
4,213
6,330
7,121
15,850
15,900
208
4,213
6,350
7,144
632
4,213
6,350
7,144
15,900
15,950
204
4,213
6,370
7,166
632
4,213
6,370
7,166
15,950
16,000
200
4,213
6,390
7,189
632
4,213
6,390
7,189
16,000
16,050
196
4,213
6,410
7,211
632
4,213
6,410
7,211
16,050
16,100
193
4,213
6,430
7,234
632
4,213
6,430
7,234
16,100
16,150
189
4,213
6,450
7,256
632
4,213
6,450
7,256
16,150
16,200
185
4,213
6,470
7,279
632
4,213
6,470
7,279
16,200
16,250
181
4,213
6,490
7,301
632
4,213
6,490
7,301
16,250
16,300
177
4,213
6,510
7,324
632
4,213
6,510
7,324
16,300
16,350
173
4,213
6,530
7,346
632
4,213
6,530
7,346
16,350
16,400
170
4,213
6,550
7,369
632
4,213
6,550
7,369
16,400
16,450
166
4,213
6,570
7,391
632
4,213
6,570
7,391
16,450
16,500
162
4,213
6,590
7,414
632
4,213
6,590
7,414
16,500
16,550
158
4,213
6,610
7,436
632
4,213
6,610
7,436
16,550
16,600
154
4,213
6,630
7,459
632
4,213
6,630
7,459
16,600
16,650
150
4,213
6,650
7,481
632
4,213
6,650
7,481
16,650
16,700
147
4,213
6,670
7,504
632
4,213
6,670
7,504
16,700
16,750
143
4,213
6,690
7,526
632
4,213
6,690
7,526
16,750
16,800
139
4,213
6,710
7,549
632
4,213
6,710
7,549
16,800
16,850
135
4,213
6,730
7,571
632
4,213
6,730
7,571
16,850
16,900
131
4,213
6,750
7,594
632
4,213
6,750
7,594
16,900
16,950
127
4,213
6,770
7,616
632
4,213
6,770
7,616
16,950
17,000
124
4,213
6,790
7,639
632
4,213
6,790
7,639
17,000
17,050
120
4,213
6,810
7,661
632
4,213
6,810
7,661
17,050
17,100
116
4,213
6,830
7,684
632
4,213
6,830
7,684
17,100
17,150
112
4,213
6,850
7,706
632
4,213
6,850
7,706
17,150
17,200
108
4,213
6,870
7,729
632
4,213
6,870
7,729
17,200
17,250
105
4,213
6,890
7,751
632
4,213
6,890
7,751
17,250
17,300
101
4,213
6,910
7,774
630
4,213
6,910
7,774
17,300
17,350
97
4,213
6,930
7,796
626
4,213
6,930
7,796
17,350
17,400
93
4,213
6,950
7,819
622
4,213
6,950
7,819
17,400
17,450
89
4,213
6,960
7,830
619
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,450
17,500
85
4,213
6,960
7,830
615
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,500
17,550
82
4,213
6,960
7,830
611
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,550
17,600
78
4,213
6,960
7,830
607
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,600
17,650
74
4,213
6,960
7,830
603
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,650
17,700
70
4,213
6,960
7,830
599
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,700
17,750
66
4,213
6,960
7,830
596
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,750
17,800
62
4,213
6,960
7,830
592
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,800
17,850
59
4,213
6,960
7,830
588
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,850
17,900
55
4,213
6,960
7,830
584
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,900
17,950
51
4,213
6,960
7,830
580
4,213
6,960
7,830
17,950
18,000
47
4,213
6,960
7,830
577
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,000
18,050
43
4,213
6,960
7,830
573
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,050
18,100
40
4,213
6,960
7,830
569
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,100
18,150
36
4,213
6,960
7,830
565
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,150
18,200
32
4,213
6,960
7,830
561
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,200
18,250
28
4,213
6,960
7,830
557
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,250
18,300
24
4,213
6,960
7,830
554
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,300
18,350
20
4,213
6,960
7,830
550
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,350
18,400
17
4,213
6,960
7,830
546
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,400
18,450
13
4,213
6,960
7,830
542
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,450
18,500
9
4,213
6,960
7,830
538
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,500
18,550
5
4,213
6,960
7,830
534
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,550
18,600
*
4,213
6,960
7,830
531
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,600
18,650
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
527
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,650
18,700
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
523
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,700
18,750
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
519
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,750
18,800
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
515
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,800
18,850
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
512
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,850
18,900
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
508
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,900
18,950
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
504
4,213
6,960
7,830
18,950
19,000
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
500
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,000
19,050
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
496
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,050
19,100
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
492
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,100
19,150
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
489
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,150
19,200
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
485
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,200
19,250
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
481
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,250
19,300
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
477
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,300
19,350
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
473
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,350
19,400
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
469
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,400
19,450
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
466
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,450
19,500
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
462
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,500
19,550
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
458
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,550
19,600
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
454
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,600
19,650
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
450
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,650
19,700
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
446
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,700
19,750
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
443
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,750
19,800
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
439
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,800
19,850
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
435
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,850
19,900
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
431
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,900
19,950
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
427
4,213
6,960
7,830
19,950
20,000
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
424
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,000
20,050
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
420
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,050
20,100
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
416
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,100
20,150
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
412
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,150
20,200
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
408
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,200
20,250
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
404
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,250
20,300
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
401
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,300
20,350
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
397
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,350
20,400
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
393
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,400
20,450
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
389
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,450
20,500
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
385
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,500
20,550
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
381
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,550
20,600
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
378
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,600
20,650
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
374
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,650
20,700
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
370
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,700
20,750
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
366
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,750
20,800
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
362
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,800
20,850
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
359
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,850
20,900
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
355
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,900
20,950
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
351
4,213
6,960
7,830
20,950
21,000
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
347
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,000
21,050
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
343
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,050
21,100
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
339
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,100
21,150
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
336
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,150
21,200
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
332
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,200
21,250
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
328
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,250
21,300
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
324
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,300
21,350
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
320
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,350
21,400
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
316
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,400
21,450
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
313
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,450
21,500
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
309
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,500
21,550
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
305
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,550
21,600
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
301
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,600
21,650
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
297
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,650
21,700
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
293
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,700
21,750
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
290
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,750
21,800
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
286
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,800
21,850
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
282
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,850
21,900
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
278
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,900
21,950
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
274
4,213
6,960
7,830
21,950
22,000
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
271
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,000
22,050
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
267
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,050
22,100
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
263
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,100
22,150
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
259
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,150
22,200
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
255
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,200
22,250
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
251
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,250
22,300
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
248
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,300
22,350
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
244
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,350
22,400
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
240
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,400
22,450
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
236
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,450
22,500
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
232
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,500
22,550
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
228
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,550
22,600
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
225
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,600
22,650
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
221
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,650
22,700
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
217
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,700
22,750
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
213
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,750
22,800
0
4,204
6,948
7,818
209
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,800
22,850
0
4,196
6,938
7,808
206
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,850
22,900
0
4,188
6,927
7,797
202
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,900
22,950
0
4,180
6,917
7,787
198
4,213
6,960
7,830
22,950
23,000
0
4,172
6,906
7,776
194
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,000
23,050
0
4,164
6,896
7,766
190
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,050
23,100
0
4,156
6,885
7,755
186
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,100
23,150
0
4,148
6,875
7,745
183
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,150
23,200
0
4,140
6,864
7,734
179
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,200
23,250
0
4,132
6,854
7,724
175
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,250
23,300
0
4,124
6,843
7,713
171
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,300
23,350
0
4,116
6,833
7,703
167
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,350
23,400
0
4,108
6,822
7,692
163
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,400
23,450
0
4,100
6,812
7,682
160
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,450
23,500
0
4,092
6,801
7,671
156
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,500
23,550
0
4,084
6,790
7,660
152
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,550
23,600
0
4,076
6,780
7,650
148
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,600
23,650
0
4,068
6,769
7,639
144
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,650
23,700
0
4,060
6,759
7,629
140
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,700
23,750
0
4,052
6,748
7,618
137
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,750
23,800
0
4,044
6,738
7,608
133
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,800
23,850
0
4,036
6,727
7,597
129
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,850
23,900
0
4,028
6,717
7,587
125
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,900
23,950
0
4,020
6,706
7,576
121
4,213
6,960
7,830
23,950
24,000
0
4,012
6,696
7,566
118
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,000
24,050
0
4,004
6,685
7,555
114
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,050
24,100
0
3,996
6,675
7,545
110
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,100
24,150
0
3,988
6,664
7,534
106
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,150
24,200
0
3,980
6,654
7,524
102
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,200
24,250
0
3,973
6,643
7,513
98
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,250
24,300
0
3,965
6,633
7,503
95
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,300
24,350
0
3,957
6,622
7,492
91
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,350
24,400
0
3,949
6,611
7,481
87
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,400
24,450
0
3,941
6,601
7,471
83
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,450
24,500
0
3,933
6,590
7,460
79
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,500
24,550
0
3,925
6,580
7,450
75
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,550
24,600
0
3,917
6,569
7,439
72
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,600
24,650
0
3,909
6,559
7,429
68
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,650
24,700
0
3,901
6,548
7,418
64
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,700
24,750
0
3,893
6,538
7,408
60
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,750
24,800
0
* If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $18,550 but less than $18,591, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $18,591 or more, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the credit.
3,885
6,527
7,397
56
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,800
24,850
0
3,877
6,517
7,387
53
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,850
24,900
0
3,869
6,506
7,376
49
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,900
24,950
0
3,861
6,496
7,366
45
4,213
6,960
7,830
24,950
25,000
0
3,853
6,485
7,355
41
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,000
25,050
0
3,845
6,475
7,345
37
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,050
25,100
0
3,837
6,464
7,334
33
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,100
25,150
0
3,829
6,454
7,324
30
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,150
25,200
0
3,821
6,443
7,313
26
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,200
25,250
0
3,813
6,432
7,302
22
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,250
25,300
0
3,805
6,422
7,292
18
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,300
25,350
0
3,797
6,411
7,281
14
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,350
25,400
0
3,789
6,401
7,271
10
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,400
25,450
0
3,781
6,390
7,260
7
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,450
25,500
0
3,773
6,380
7,250
3
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,500
25,550
0
3,765
6,369
7,239
*
* If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $25,500 but less than $25,511, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, your credit is $0.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $25,511 or more, and you have no qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the credit.
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,550
25,600
0
3,757
6,359
7,229
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,600
25,650
0
3,749
6,348
7,218
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,650
25,700
0
3,741
6,338
7,208
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,700
25,750
0
3,733
6,327
7,197
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,750
25,800
0
3,725
6,317
7,187
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,800
25,850
0
3,717
6,306
7,176
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,850
25,900
0
3,709
6,296
7,166
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,900
25,950
0
3,701
6,285
7,155
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
25,950
26,000
0
3,693
6,274
7,144
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,000
26,050
0
3,685
6,264
7,134
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,050
26,100
0
3,677
6,253
7,123
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,100
26,150
0
3,669
6,243
7,113
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,150
26,200
0
3,661
6,232
7,102
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,200
26,250
0
3,653
6,222
7,092
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,250
26,300
0
3,645
6,211
7,081
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,300
26,350
0
3,637
6,201
7,071
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,350
26,400
0
3,629
6,190
7,060
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,400
26,450
0
3,621
6,180
7,050
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,450
26,500
0
3,613
6,169
7,039
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,500
26,550
0
3,605
6,159
7,029
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,550
26,600
0
3,597
6,148
7,018
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,600
26,650
0
3,589
6,138
7,008
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,650
26,700
0
3,581
6,127
6,997
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,700
26,750
0
3,573
6,117
6,987
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,750
26,800
0
3,565
6,106
6,976
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,800
26,850
0
3,557
6,095
6,965
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,850
26,900
0
3,549
6,085
6,955
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,900
26,950
0
3,541
6,074
6,944
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
26,950
27,000
0
3,533
6,064
6,934
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,000
27,050
0
3,525
6,053
6,923
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,050
27,100
0
3,517
6,043
6,913
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,100
27,150
0
3,509
6,032
6,902
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,150
27,200
0
3,501
6,022
6,892
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,200
27,250
0
3,493
6,011
6,881
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,250
27,300
0
3,485
6,001
6,871
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,300
27,350
0
3,477
5,990
6,860
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,350
27,400
0
3,469
5,980
6,850
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,400
27,450
0
3,461
5,969
6,839
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,450
27,500
0
3,453
5,959
6,829
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,500
27,550
0
3,445
5,948
6,818
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,550
27,600
0
3,437
5,938
6,808
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,600
27,650
0
3,429
5,927
6,797
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,650
27,700
0
3,421
5,916
6,786
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,700
27,750
0
3,413
5,906
6,776
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,750
27,800
0
3,405
5,895
6,765
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,800
27,850
0
3,397
5,885
6,755
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,850
27,900
0
3,389
5,874
6,744
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,900
27,950
0
3,381
5,864
6,734
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
27,950
28,000
0
3,373
5,853
6,723
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,000
28,050
0
3,365
5,843
6,713
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,050
28,100
0
3,357
5,832
6,702
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,100
28,150
0
3,349
5,822
6,692
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,150
28,200
0
3,341
5,811
6,681
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,200
28,250
0
3,333
5,801
6,671
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,250
28,300
0
3,325
5,790
6,660
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,300
28,350
0
3,317
5,780
6,650
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,350
28,400
0
3,309
5,769
6,639
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,400
28,450
0
3,301
5,759
6,629
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,450
28,500
0
3,293
5,748
6,618
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,500
28,550
0
3,285
5,737
6,607
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,550
28,600
0
3,277
5,727
6,597
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,600
28,650
0
3,269
5,716
6,586
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,650
28,700
0
3,261
5,706
6,576
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,700
28,750
0
3,253
5,695
6,565
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,750
28,800
0
3,245
5,685
6,555
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,800
28,850
0
3,237
5,674
6,544
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,850
28,900
0
3,229
5,664
6,534
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,900
28,950
0
3,221
5,653
6,523
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
28,950
29,000
0
3,213
5,643
6,513
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,000
29,050
0
3,205
5,632
6,502
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,050
29,100
0
3,197
5,622
6,492
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,100
29,150
0
3,189
5,611
6,481
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,150
29,200
0
3,181
5,601
6,471
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,200
29,250
0
3,174
5,590
6,460
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,250
29,300
0
3,166
5,580
6,450
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,300
29,350
0
3,158
5,569
6,439
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,350
29,400
0
3,150
5,558
6,428
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,400
29,450
0
3,142
5,548
6,418
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,450
29,500
0
3,134
5,537
6,407
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,500
29,550
0
3,126
5,527
6,397
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,550
29,600
0
3,118
5,516
6,386
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,600
29,650
0
3,110
5,506
6,376
0
4,213
6,960
7,830
29,650
29,700
0
3,102
5,495
6,365
0
4,207
6,953
7,823
29,700
29,750
0
3,094
5,485
6,355
0
4,199
6,942
7,812
29,750
29,800
0
3,086
5,474
6,344
0
4,191
6,932
7,802
29,800
29,850
0
3,078
5,464
6,334
0
4,183
6,921
7,791
29,850
29,900
0
3,070
5,453
6,323
0
4,175
6,911
7,781
29,900
29,950
0
3,062
5,443
6,313
0
4,167
6,900
7,770
29,950
30,000
0
3,054
5,432
6,302
0
4,159
6,889
7,759
30,000
30,050
0
3,046
5,422
6,292
0
4,151
6,879
7,749
30,050
30,100
0
3,038
5,411
6,281
0
4,143
6,868
7,738
30,100
30,150
0
3,030
5,401
6,271
0
4,135
6,858
7,728
30,150
30,200
0
3,022
5,390
6,260
0
4,128
6,847
7,717
30,200
30,250
0
3,014
5,379
6,249
0
4,120
6,837
7,707
30,250
30,300
0
3,006
5,369
6,239
0
4,112
6,826
7,696
30,300
30,350
0
2,998
5,358
6,228
0
4,104
6,816
7,686
30,350
30,400
0
2,990
5,348
6,218
0
4,096
6,805
7,675
30,400
30,450
0
2,982
5,337
6,207
0
4,088
6,795
7,665
30,450
30,500
0
2,974
5,327
6,197
0
4,080
6,784
7,654
30,500
30,550
0
2,966
5,316
6,186
0
4,072
6,774
7,644
30,550
30,600
0
2,958
5,306
6,176
0
4,064
6,763
7,633
30,600
30,650
0
2,950
5,295
6,165
0
4,056
6,753
7,623
30,650
30,700
0
2,942
5,285
6,155
0
4,048
6,742
7,612
30,700
30,750
0
2,934
5,274
6,144
0
4,040
6,731
7,601
30,750
30,800
0
2,926
5,264
6,134
0
4,032
6,721
7,591
30,800
30,850
0
2,918
5,253
6,123
0
4,024
6,710
7,580
30,850
30,900
0
2,910
5,243
6,113
0
4,016
6,700
7,570
30,900
30,950
0
2,902
5,232
6,102
0
4,008
6,689
7,559
30,950
31,000
0
2,894
5,221
6,091
0
4,000
6,679
7,549
31,000
31,050
0
2,886
5,211
6,081
0
3,992
6,668
7,538
31,050
31,100
0
2,878
5,200
6,070
0
3,984
6,658
7,528
31,100
31,150
0
2,870
5,190
6,060
0
3,976
6,647
7,517
31,150
31,200
0
2,862
5,179
6,049
0
3,968
6,637
7,507
31,200
31,250
0
2,854
5,169
6,039
0
3,960
6,626
7,496
31,250
31,300
0
2,846
5,158
6,028
0
3,952
6,616
7,486
31,300
31,350
0
2,838
5,148
6,018
0
3,944
6,605
7,475
31,350
31,400
0
2,830
5,137
6,007
0
3,936
6,595
7,465
31,400
31,450
0
2,822
5,127
5,997
0
3,928
6,584
7,454
31,450
31,500
0
2,814
5,116
5,986
0
3,920
6,574
7,444
31,500
31,550
0
2,806
5,106
5,976
0
3,912
6,563
7,433
31,550
31,600
0
2,798
5,095
5,965
0
3,904
6,552
7,422
31,600
31,650
0
2,790
5,085
5,955
0
3,896
6,542
7,412
31,650
31,700
0
2,782
5,074
5,944
0
3,888
6,531
7,401
31,700
31,750
0
2,774
5,064
5,934
0
3,880
6,521
7,391
31,750
31,800
0
2,766
5,053
5,923
0
3,872
6,510
7,380
31,800
31,850
0
2,758
5,042
5,912
0
3,864
6,500
7,370
31,850
31,900
0
2,750
5,032
5,902
0
3,856
6,489
7,359
31,900
31,950
0
2,742
5,021
5,891
0
3,848
6,479
7,349
31,950
32,000
0
2,734
5,011
5,881
0
3,840
6,468
7,338
32,000
32,050
0
2,726
5,000
5,870
0
3,832
6,458
7,328
32,050
32,100
0
2,718
4,990
5,860
0
3,824
6,447
7,317
32,100
32,150
0
2,710
4,979
5,849
0
3,816
6,437
7,307
32,150
32,200
0
2,702
4,969
5,839
0
3,808
6,426
7,296
32,200
32,250
0
2,694
4,958
5,828
0
3,800
6,416
7,286
32,250
32,300
0
2,686
4,948
5,818
0
3,792
6,405
7,275
32,300
32,350
0
2,678
4,937
5,807
0
3,784
6,395
7,265
32,350
32,400
0
2,670
4,927
5,797
0
3,776
6,384
7,254
32,400
32,450
0
2,662
4,916
5,786
0
3,768
6,373
7,243
32,450
32,500
0
2,654
4,906
5,776
0
3,760
6,363
7,233
32,500
32,550
0
2,646
4,895
5,765
0
3,752
6,352
7,222
32,550
32,600
0
2,638
4,885
5,755
0
3,744
6,342
7,212
32,600
32,650
0
2,630
4,874
5,744
0
3,736
6,331
7,201
32,650
32,700
0
2,622
4,863
5,733
0
3,728
6,321
7,191
32,700
32,750
0
2,614
4,853
5,723
0
3,720
6,310
7,180
32,750
32,800
0
2,606
4,842
5,712
0
3,712
6,300
7,170
32,800
32,850
0
2,598
4,832
5,702
0
3,704
6,289
7,159
32,850
32,900
0
2,590
4,821
5,691
0
3,696
6,279
7,149
32,900
32,950
0
2,582
4,811
5,681
0
3,688
6,268
7,138
32,950
33,000
0
2,574
4,800
5,670
0
3,680
6,258
7,128
33,000
33,050
0
2,566
4,790
5,660
0
3,672
6,247
7,117
33,050
33,100
0
2,558
4,779
5,649
0
3,664
6,237
7,107
33,100
33,150
0
2,550
4,769
5,639
0
3,656
6,226
7,096
33,150
33,200
0
2,542
4,758
5,628
0
3,648
6,216
7,086
33,200
33,250
0
2,534
4,748
5,618
0
3,640
6,205
7,075
33,250
33,300
0
2,526
4,737
5,607
0
3,632
6,194
7,064
33,300
33,350
0
2,518
4,727
5,597
0
3,624
6,184
7,054
33,350
33,400
0
2,510
4,716
5,586
0
3,616
6,173
7,043
33,400
33,450
0
2,502
4,706
5,576
0
3,608
6,163
7,033
33,450
33,500
0
2,494
4,695
5,565
0
3,600
6,152
7,022
33,500
33,550
0
2,486
4,684
5,554
0
3,592
6,142
7,012
33,550
33,600
0
2,478
4,674
5,544
0
3,584
6,131
7,001
33,600
33,650
0
2,470
4,663
5,533
0
3,576
6,121
6,991
33,650
33,700
0
2,462
4,653
5,523
0
3,568
6,110
6,980
33,700
33,750
0
2,454
4,642
5,512
0
3,560
6,100
6,970
33,750
33,800
0
2,446
4,632
5,502
0
3,552
6,089
6,959
33,800
33,850
0
2,438
4,621
5,491
0
3,544
6,079
6,949
33,850
33,900
0
2,430
4,611
5,481
0
3,536
6,068
6,938
33,900
33,950
0
2,422
4,600
5,470
0
3,528
6,058
6,928
33,950
34,000
0
2,414
4,590
5,460
0
3,520
6,047
6,917
34,000
34,050
0
2,406
4,579
5,449
0
3,512
6,037
6,907
34,050
34,100
0
2,398
4,569
5,439
0
3,504
6,026
6,896
34,100
34,150
0
2,390
4,558
5,428
0
3,496
6,015
6,885
34,150
34,200
0
2,382
4,548
5,418
0
3,488
6,005
6,875
34,200
34,250
0
2,375
4,537
5,407
0
3,480
5,994
6,864
34,250
34,300
0
2,367
4,527
5,397
0
3,472
5,984
6,854
34,300
34,350
0
2,359
4,516
5,386
0
3,464
5,973
6,843
34,350
34,400
0
2,351
4,505
5,375
0
3,456
5,963
6,833
34,400
34,450
0
2,343
4,495
5,365
0
3,448
5,952
6,822
34,450
34,500
0
2,335
4,484
5,354
0
3,440
5,942
6,812
34,500
34,550
0
2,327
4,474
5,344
0
3,432
5,931
6,801
34,550
34,600
0
2,319
4,463
5,333
0
3,424
5,921
6,791
34,600
34,650
0
2,311
4,453
5,323
0
3,416
5,910
6,780
34,650
34,700
0
2,303
4,442
5,312
0
3,408
5,900
6,770
34,700
34,750
0
2,295
4,432
5,302
0
3,400
5,889
6,759
34,750
34,800
0
2,287
4,421
5,291
0
3,392
5,879
6,749
34,800
34,850
0
2,279
4,411
5,281
0
3,384
5,868
6,738
34,850
34,900
0
2,271
4,400
5,270
0
3,376
5,858
6,728
34,900
34,950
0
2,263
4,390
5,260
0
3,368
5,847
6,717
34,950
35,000
0
2,255
4,379
5,249
0
3,360
5,836
6,706
35,000
35,050
0
2,247
4,369
5,239
0
3,352
5,826
6,696
35,050
35,100
0
2,239
4,358
5,228
0
3,344
5,815
6,685
35,100
35,150
0
2,231
4,348
5,218
0
3,336
5,805
6,675
35,150
35,200
0
2,223
4,337
5,207
0
3,329
5,794
6,664
35,200
35,250
0
2,215
4,326
5,196
0
3,321
5,784
6,654
35,250
35,300
0
2,207
4,316
5,186
0
3,313
5,773
6,643
35,300
35,350
0
2,199
4,305
5,175
0
3,305
5,763
6,633
35,350
35,400
0
2,191
4,295
5,165
0
3,297
5,752
6,622
35,400
35,450
0
2,183
4,284
5,154
0
3,289
5,742
6,612
35,450
35,500
0
2,175
4,274
5,144
0
3,281
5,731
6,601
35,500
35,550
0
2,167
4,263
5,133
0
3,273
5,721
6,591
35,550
35,600
0
2,159
4,253
5,123
0
3,265
5,710
6,580
35,600
35,650
0
2,151
4,242
5,112
0
3,257
5,700
6,570
35,650
35,700
0
2,143
4,232
5,102
0
3,249
5,689
6,559
35,700
35,750
0
2,135
4,221
5,091
0
3,241
5,678
6,548
35,750
35,800
0
2,127
4,211
5,081
0
3,233
5,668
6,538
35,800
35,850
0
2,119
4,200
5,070
0
3,225
5,657
6,527
35,850
35,900
0
2,111
4,190
5,060
0
3,217
5,647
6,517
35,900
35,950
0
2,103
4,179
5,049
0
3,209
5,636
6,506
35,950
36,000
0
2,095
4,168
5,038
0
3,201
5,626
6,496
36,000
36,050
0
2,087
4,158
5,028
0
3,193
5,615
6,485
36,050
36,100
0
2,079
4,147
5,017
0
3,185
5,605
6,475
36,100
36,150
0
2,071
4,137
5,007
0
3,177
5,594
6,464
36,150
36,200
0
2,063
4,126
4,996
0
3,169
5,584
6,454
36,200
36,250
0
2,055
4,116
4,986
0
3,161
5,573
6,443
36,250
36,300
0
2,047
4,105
4,975
0
3,153
5,563
6,433
36,300
36,350
0
2,039
4,095
4,965
0
3,145
5,552
6,422
36,350
36,400
0
2,031
4,084
4,954
0
3,137
5,542
6,412
36,400
36,450
0
2,023
4,074
4,944
0
3,129
5,531
6,401
36,450
36,500
0
2,015
4,063
4,933
0
3,121
5,521
6,391
36,500
36,550
0
2,007
4,053
4,923
0
3,113
5,510
6,380
36,550
36,600
0
1,999
4,042
4,912
0
3,105
5,499
6,369
36,600
36,650
0
1,991
4,032
4,902
0
3,097
5,489
6,359
36,650
36,700
0
1,983
4,021
4,891
0
3,089
5,478
6,348
36,700
36,750
0
1,975
4,011
4,881
0
3,081
5,468
6,338
36,750
36,800
0
1,967
4,000
4,870
0
3,073
5,457
6,327
36,800
36,850
0
1,959
3,989
4,859
0
3,065
5,447
6,317
36,850
36,900
0
1,951
3,979
4,849
0
3,057
5,436
6,306
36,900
36,950
0
1,943
3,968
4,838
0
3,049
5,426
6,296
36,950
37,000
0
1,935
3,958
4,828
0
3,041
5,415
6,285
37,000
37,050
0
1,927
3,947
4,817
0
3,033
5,405
6,275
37,050
37,100
0
1,919
3,937
4,807
0
3,025
5,394
6,264
37,100
37,150
0
1,911
3,926
4,796
0
3,017
5,384
6,254
37,150
37,200
0
1,903
3,916
4,786
0
3,009
5,373
6,243
37,200
37,250
0
1,895
3,905
4,775
0
3,001
5,363
6,233
37,250
37,300
0
1,887
3,895
4,765
0
2,993
5,352
6,222
37,300
37,350
0
1,879
3,884
4,754
0
2,985
5,342
6,212
37,350
37,400
0
1,871
3,874
4,744
0
2,977
5,331
6,201
37,400
37,450
0
1,863
3,863
4,733
0
2,969
5,320
6,190
37,450
37,500
0
1,855
3,853
4,723
0
2,961
5,310
6,180
37,500
37,550
0
1,847
3,842
4,712
0
2,953
5,299
6,169
37,550
37,600
0
1,839
3,832
4,702
0
2,945
5,289
6,159
37,600
37,650
0
1,831
3,821
4,691
0
2,937
5,278
6,148
37,650
37,700
0
1,823
3,810
4,680
0
2,929
5,268
6,138
37,700
37,750
0
1,815
3,800
4,670
0
2,921
5,257
6,127
37,750
37,800
0
1,807
3,789
4,659
0
2,913
5,247
6,117
37,800
37,850
0
1,799
3,779
4,649
0
2,905
5,236
6,106
37,850
37,900
0
1,791
3,768
4,638
0
2,897
5,226
6,096
37,900
37,950
0
1,783
3,758
4,628
0
2,889
5,215
6,085
37,950
38,000
0
1,775
3,747
4,617
0
2,881
5,205
6,075
38,000
38,050
0
1,767
3,737
4,607
0
2,873
5,194
6,064
38,050
38,100
0
1,759
3,726
4,596
0
2,865
5,184
6,054
38,100
38,150
0
1,751
3,716
4,586
0
2,857
5,173
6,043
38,150
38,200
0
1,743
3,705
4,575
0
2,849
5,163
6,033
38,200
38,250
0
1,735
3,695
4,565
0
2,841
5,152
6,022
38,250
38,300
0
1,727
3,684
4,554
0
2,833
5,141
6,011
38,300
38,350
0
1,719
3,674
4,544
0
2,825
5,131
6,001
38,350
38,400
0
1,711
3,663
4,533
0
2,817
5,120
5,990
38,400
38,450
0
1,703
3,653
4,523
0
2,809
5,110
5,980
38,450
38,500
0
1,695
3,642
4,512
0
2,801
5,099
5,969
38,500
38,550
0
1,687
3,631
4,501
0
2,793
5,089
5,959
38,550
38,600
0
1,679
3,621
4,491
0
2,785
5,078
5,948
38,600
38,650
0
1,671
3,610
4,480
0
2,777
5,068
5,938
38,650
38,700
0
1,663
3,600
4,470
0
2,769
5,057
5,927
38,700
38,750
0
1,655
3,589
4,459
0
2,761
5,047
5,917
38,750
38,800
0
1,647
3,579
4,449
0
2,753
5,036
5,906
38,800
38,850
0
1,639
3,568
4,438
0
2,745
5,026
5,896
38,850
38,900
0
1,631
3,558
4,428
0
2,737
5,015
5,885
38,900
38,950
0
1,623
3,547
4,417
0
2,729
5,005
5,875
38,950
39,000
0
1,615
3,537
4,407
0
2,721
4,994
5,864
39,000
39,050
0
1,607
3,526
4,396
0
2,713
4,984
5,854
39,050
39,100
0
1,599
3,516
4,386
0
2,705
4,973
5,843
39,100
39,150
0
1,591
3,505
4,375
0
2,697
4,962
5,832
39,150
39,200
0
1,583
3,495
4,365
0
2,689
4,952
5,822
39,200
39,250
0
1,576
3,484
4,354
0
2,681
4,941
5,811
39,250
39,300
0
1,568
3,474
4,344
0
2,673
4,931
5,801
39,300
39,350
0
1,560
3,463
4,333
0
2,665
4,920
5,790
39,350
39,400
0
1,552
3,452
4,322
0
2,657
4,910
5,780
39,400
39,450
0
1,544
3,442
4,312
0
2,649
4,899
5,769
39,450
39,500
0
1,536
3,431
4,301
0
2,641
4,889
5,759
39,500
39,550
0
1,528
3,421
4,291
0
2,633
4,878
5,748
39,550
39,600
0
1,520
3,410
4,280
0
2,625
4,868
5,738
39,600
39,650
0
1,512
3,400
4,270
0
2,617
4,857
5,727
39,650
39,700
0
1,504
3,389
4,259
0
2,609
4,847
5,717
39,700
39,750
0
1,496
3,379
4,249
0
2,601
4,836
5,706
39,750
39,800
0
1,488
3,368
4,238
0
2,593
4,826
5,696
39,800
39,850
0
1,480
3,358
4,228
0
2,585
4,815
5,685
39,850
39,900
0
1,472
3,347
4,217
0
2,577
4,805
5,675
39,900
39,950
0
1,464
3,337
4,207
0
2,569
4,794
5,664
39,950
40,000
0
1,456
3,326
4,196
0
2,561
4,783
5,653
40,000
40,050
0
1,448
3,316
4,186
0
2,553
4,773
5,643
40,050
40,100
0
1,440
3,305
4,175
0
2,545
4,762
5,632
40,100
40,150
0
1,432
3,295
4,165
0
2,537
4,752
5,622
40,150
40,200
0
1,424
3,284
4,154
0
2,530
4,741
5,611
40,200
40,250
0
1,416
3,273
4,143
0
2,522
4,731
5,601
40,250
40,300
0
1,408
3,263
4,133
0
2,514
4,720
5,590
40,300
40,350
0
1,400
3,252
4,122
0
2,506
4,710
5,580
40,350
40,400
0
1,392
3,242
4,112
0
2,498
4,699
5,569
40,400
40,450
0
1,384
3,231
4,101
0
2,490
4,689
5,559
40,450
40,500
0
1,376
3,221
4,091
0
2,482
4,678
5,548
40,500
40,550
0
1,368
3,210
4,080
0
2,474
4,668
5,538
40,550
40,600
0
1,360
3,200
4,070
0
2,466
4,657
5,527
40,600
40,650
0
1,352
3,189
4,059
0
2,458
4,647
5,517
40,650
40,700
0
1,344
3,179
4,049
0
2,450
4,636
5,506
40,700
40,750
0
1,336
3,168
4,038
0
2,442
4,625
5,495
40,750
40,800
0
1,328
3,158
4,028
0
2,434
4,615
5,485
40,800
40,850
0
1,320
3,147
4,017
0
2,426
4,604
5,474
40,850
40,900
0
1,312
3,137
4,007
0
2,418
4,594
5,464
40,900
40,950
0
1,304
3,126
3,996
0
2,410
4,583
5,453
40,950
41,000
0
1,296
3,115
3,985
0
2,402
4,573
5,443
41,000
41,050
0
1,288
3,105
3,975
0
2,394
4,562
5,432
41,050
41,100
0
1,280
3,094
3,964
0
2,386
4,552
5,422
41,100
41,150
0
1,272
3,084
3,954
0
2,378
4,541
5,411
41,150
41,200
0
1,264
3,073
3,943
0
2,370
4,531
5,401
41,200
41,250
0
1,256
3,063
3,933
0
2,362
4,520
5,390
41,250
41,300
0
1,248
3,052
3,922
0
2,354
4,510
5,380
41,300
41,350
0
1,240
3,042
3,912
0
2,346
4,499
5,369
41,350
41,400
0
1,232
3,031
3,901
0
2,338
4,489
5,359
41,400
41,450
0
1,224
3,021
3,891
0
2,330
4,478
5,348
41,450
41,500
0
1,216
3,010
3,880
0
2,322
4,468
5,338
41,500
41,550
0
1,208
3,000
3,870
0
2,314
4,457
5,327
41,550
41,600
0
1,200
2,989
3,859
0
2,306
4,446
5,316
41,600
41,650
0
1,192
2,979
3,849
0
2,298
4,436
5,306
41,650
41,700
0
1,184
2,968
3,838
0
2,290
4,425
5,295
41,700
41,750
0
1,176
2,958
3,828
0
2,282
4,415
5,285
41,750
41,800
0
1,168
2,947
3,817
0
2,274
4,404
5,274
41,800
41,850
0
1,160
2,936
3,806
0
2,266
4,394
5,264
41,850
41,900
0
1,152
2,926
3,796
0
2,258
4,383
5,253
41,900
41,950
0
1,144
2,915
3,785
0
2,250
4,373
5,243
41,950
42,000
0
1,136
2,905
3,775
0
2,242
4,362
5,232
42,000
42,050
0
1,128
2,894
3,764
0
2,234
4,352
5,222
42,050
42,100
0
1,120
2,884
3,754
0
2,226
4,341
5,211
42,100
42,150
0
1,112
2,873
3,743
0
2,218
4,331
5,201
42,150
42,200
0
1,104
2,863
3,733
0
2,210
4,320
5,190
42,200
42,250
0
1,096
2,852
3,722
0
2,202
4,310
5,180
42,250
42,300
0
1,088
2,842
3,712
0
2,194
4,299
5,169
42,300
42,350
0
1,080
2,831
3,701
0
2,186
4,289
5,159
42,350
42,400
0
1,072
2,821
3,691
0
2,178
4,278
5,148
42,400
42,450
0
1,064
2,810
3,680
0
2,170
4,267
5,137
42,450
42,500
0
1,056
2,800
3,670
0
2,162
4,257
5,127
42,500
42,550
0
1,048
2,789
3,659
0
2,154
4,246
5,116
42,550
42,600
0
1,040
2,779
3,649
0
2,146
4,236
5,106
42,600
42,650
0
1,032
2,768
3,638
0
2,138
4,225
5,095
42,650
42,700
0
1,024
2,757
3,627
0
2,130
4,215
5,085
42,700
42,750
0
1,016
2,747
3,617
0
2,122
4,204
5,074
42,750
42,800
0
1,008
2,736
3,606
0
2,114
4,194
5,064
42,800
42,850
0
1,000
2,726
3,596
0
2,106
4,183
5,053
42,850
42,900
0
992
2,715
3,585
0
2,098
4,173
5,043
42,900
42,950
0
984
2,705
3,575
0
2,090
4,162
5,032
42,950
43,000
0
976
2,694
3,564
0
2,082
4,152
5,022
43,000
43,050
0
968
2,684
3,554
0
2,074
4,141
5,011
43,050
43,100
0
960
2,673
3,543
0
2,066
4,131
5,001
43,100
43,150
0
952
2,663
3,533
0
2,058
4,120
4,990
43,150
43,200
0
944
2,652
3,522
0
2,050
4,110
4,980
43,200
43,250
0
936
2,642
3,512
0
2,042
4,099
4,969
43,250
43,300
0
928
2,631
3,501
0
2,034
4,088
4,958
43,300
43,350
0
920
2,621
3,491
0
2,026
4,078
4,948
43,350
43,400
0
912
2,610
3,480
0
2,018
4,067
4,937
43,400
43,450
0
904
2,600
3,470
0
2,010
4,057
4,927
43,450
43,500
0
896
2,589
3,459
0
2,002
4,046
4,916
43,500
43,550
0
888
2,578
3,448
0
1,994
4,036
4,906
43,550
43,600
0
880
2,568
3,438
0
1,986
4,025
4,895
43,600
43,650
0
872
2,557
3,427
0
1,978
4,015
4,885
43,650
43,700
0
864
2,547
3,417
0
1,970
4,004
4,874
43,700
43,750
0
856
2,536
3,406
0
1,962
3,994
4,864
43,750
43,800
0
848
2,526
3,396
0
1,954
3,983
4,853
43,800
43,850
0
840
2,515
3,385
0
1,946
3,973
4,843
43,850
43,900
0
832
2,505
3,375
0
1,938
3,962
4,832
43,900
43,950
0
824
2,494
3,364
0
1,930
3,952
4,822
43,950
44,000
0
816
2,484
3,354
0
1,922
3,941
4,811
44,000
44,050
0
808
2,473
3,343
0
1,914
3,931
4,801
44,050
44,100
0
800
2,463
3,333
0
1,906
3,920
4,790
44,100
44,150
0
792
2,452
3,322
0
1,898
3,909
4,779
44,150
44,200
0
784
2,442
3,312
0
1,890
3,899
4,769
44,200
44,250
0
777
2,431
3,301
0
1,882
3,888
4,758
44,250
44,300
0
769
2,421
3,291
0
1,874
3,878
4,748
44,300
44,350
0
761
2,410
3,280
0
1,866
3,867
4,737
44,350
44,400
0
753
2,399
3,269
0
1,858
3,857
4,727
44,400
44,450
0
745
2,389
3,259
0
1,850
3,846
4,716
44,450
44,500
0
737
2,378
3,248
0
1,842
3,836
4,706
44,500
44,550
0
729
2,368
3,238
0
1,834
3,825
4,695
44,550
44,600
0
721
2,357
3,227
0
1,826
3,815
4,685
44,600
44,650
0
713
2,347
3,217
0
1,818
3,804
4,674
44,650
44,700
0
705
2,336
3,206
0
1,810
3,794
4,664
44,700
44,750
0
697
2,326
3,196
0
1,802
3,783
4,653
44,750
44,800
0
689
2,315
3,185
0
1,794
3,773
4,643
44,800
44,850
0
681
2,305
3,175
0
1,786
3,762
4,632
44,850
44,900
0
673
2,294
3,164
0
1,778
3,752
4,622
44,900
44,950
0
665
2,284
3,154
0
1,770
3,741
4,611
44,950
45,000
0
657
2,273
3,143
0
1,762
3,730
4,600
45,000
45,050
0
649
2,263
3,133
0
1,754
3,720
4,590
45,050
45,100
0
641
2,252
3,122
0
1,746
3,709
4,579
45,100
45,150
0
633
2,242
3,112
0
1,738
3,699
4,569
45,150
45,200
0
625
2,231
3,101
0
1,731
3,688
4,558
45,200
45,250
0
617
2,220
3,090
0
1,723
3,678
4,548
45,250
45,300
0
609
2,210
3,080
0
1,715
3,667
4,537
45,300
45,350
0
601
2,199
3,069
0
1,707
3,657
4,527
45,350
45,400
0
593
2,189
3,059
0
1,699
3,646
4,516
45,400
45,450
0
585
2,178
3,048
0
1,691
3,636
4,506
45,450
45,500
0
577
2,168
3,038
0
1,683
3,625
4,495
45,500
45,550
0
569
2,157
3,027
0
1,675
3,615
4,485
45,550
45,600
0
561
2,147
3,017
0
1,667
3,604
4,474
45,600
45,650
0
553
2,136
3,006
0
1,659
3,594
4,464
45,650
45,700
0
545
2,126
2,996
0
1,651
3,583
4,453
45,700
45,750
0
537
2,115
2,985
0
1,643
3,572
4,442
45,750
45,800
0
529
2,105
2,975
0
1,635
3,562
4,432
45,800
45,850
0
521
2,094
2,964
0
1,627
3,551
4,421
45,850
45,900
0
513
2,084
2,954
0
1,619
3,541
4,411
45,900
45,950
0
505
2,073
2,943
0
1,611
3,530
4,400
45,950
46,000
0
497
2,062
2,932
0
1,603
3,520
4,390
46,000
46,050
0
489
2,052
2,922
0
1,595
3,509
4,379
46,050
46,100
0
481
2,041
2,911
0
1,587
3,499
4,369
46,100
46,150
0
473
2,031
2,901
0
1,579
3,488
4,358
46,150
46,200
0
465
2,020
2,890
0
1,571
3,478
4,348
46,200
46,250
0
457
2,010
2,880
0
1,563
3,467
4,337
46,250
46,300
0
449
1,999
2,869
0
1,555
3,457
4,327
46,300
46,350
0
441
1,989
2,859
0
1,547
3,446
4,316
46,350
46,400
0
433
1,978
2,848
0
1,539
3,436
4,306
46,400
46,450
0
425
1,968
2,838
0
1,531
3,425
4,295
46,450
46,500
0
417
1,957
2,827
0
1,523
3,415
4,285
46,500
46,550
0
409
1,947
2,817
0
1,515
3,404
4,274
46,550
46,600
0
401
1,936
2,806
0
1,507
3,393
4,263
46,600
46,650
0
393
1,926
2,796
0
1,499
3,383
4,253
46,650
46,700
0
385
1,915
2,785
0
1,491
3,372
4,242
46,700
46,750
0
377
1,905
2,775
0
1,483
3,362
4,232
46,750
46,800
0
369
1,894
2,764
0
1,475
3,351
4,221
46,800
46,850
0
361
1,883
2,753
0
1,467
3,341
4,211
46,850
46,900
0
353
1,873
2,743
0
1,459
3,330
4,200
46,900
46,950
0
345
1,862
2,732
0
1,451
3,320
4,190
46,950
47,000
0
337
1,852
2,722
0
1,443
3,309
4,179
47,000
47,050
0
329
1,841
2,711
0
1,435
3,299
4,169
47,050
47,100
0
321
1,831
2,701
0
1,427
3,288
4,158
47,100
47,150
0
313
1,820
2,690
0
1,419
3,278
4,148
47,150
47,200
0
305
1,810
2,680
0
1,411
3,267
4,137
47,200
47,250
0
297
1,799
2,669
0
1,403
3,257
4,127
47,250
47,300
0
289
1,789
2,659
0
1,395
3,246
4,116
47,300
47,350
0
281
1,778
2,648
0
1,387
3,236
4,106
47,350
47,400
0
273
1,768
2,638
0
1,379
3,225
4,095
47,400
47,450
0
265
1,757
2,627
0
1,371
3,214
4,084
47,450
47,500
0
257
1,747
2,617
0
1,363
3,204
4,074
47,500
47,550
0
249
1,736
2,606
0
1,355
3,193
4,063
47,550
47,600
0
241
1,726
2,596
0
1,347
3,183
4,053
47,600
47,650
0
233
1,715
2,585
0
1,339
3,172
4,042
47,650
47,700
0
225
1,704
2,574
0
1,331
3,162
4,032
47,700
47,750
0
217
1,694
2,564
0
1,323
3,151
4,021
47,750
47,800
0
209
1,683
2,553
0
1,315
3,141
4,011
47,800
47,850
0
201
1,673
2,543
0
1,307
3,130
4,000
47,850
47,900
0
193
1,662
2,532
0
1,299
3,120
3,990
47,900
47,950
0
185
1,652
2,522
0
1,291
3,109
3,979
47,950
48,000
0
177
1,641
2,511
0
1,283
3,099
3,969
48,000
48,050
0
169
1,631
2,501
0
1,275
3,088
3,958
48,050
48,100
0
161
1,620
2,490
0
1,267
3,078
3,948
48,100
48,150
0
153
1,610
2,480
0
1,259
3,067
3,937
48,150
48,200
0
145
1,599
2,469
0
1,251
3,057
3,927
48,200
48,250
0
137
1,589
2,459
0
1,243
3,046
3,916
48,250
48,300
0
129
1,578
2,448
0
1,235
3,035
3,905
48,300
48,350
0
121
1,568
2,438
0
1,227
3,025
3,895
48,350
48,400
0
113
1,557
2,427
0
1,219
3,014
3,884
48,400
48,450
0
105
1,547
2,417
0
1,211
3,004
3,874
48,450
48,500
0
97
1,536
2,406
0
1,203
2,993
3,863
48,500
48,550
0
89
1,525
2,395
0
1,195
2,983
3,853
48,550
48,600
0
81
1,515
2,385
0
1,187
2,972
3,842
48,600
48,650
0
73
1,504
2,374
0
1,179
2,962
3,832
48,650
48,700
0
65
1,494
2,364
0
1,171
2,951
3,821
48,700
48,750
0
57
1,483
2,353
0
1,163
2,941
3,811
48,750
48,800
0
49
1,473
2,343
0
1,155
2,930
3,800
48,800
48,850
0
41
1,462
2,332
0
1,147
2,920
3,790
48,850
48,900
0
33
1,452
2,322
0
1,139
2,909
3,779
48,900
48,950
0
25
1,441
2,311
0
1,131
2,899
3,769
48,950
49,000
0
17
1,431
2,301
0
1,123
2,888
3,758
49,000
49,050
0
9
1,420
2,290
0
1,115
2,878
3,748
49,050
49,100
0
*
* If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $49,050 but less than $49,084, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, your credit is $3.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $49,084 or more, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, you can’t take the credit.
1,410
2,280
0
1,107
2,867
3,737
49,100
49,150
0
0
1,399
2,269
0
1,099
2,856
3,726
49,150
49,200
0
0
1,389
2,259
0
1,091
2,846
3,716
49,200
49,250
0
0
1,378
2,248
0
1,083
2,835
3,705
49,250
49,300
0
0
1,368
2,238
0
1,075
2,825
3,695
49,300
49,350
0
0
1,357
2,227
0
1,067
2,814
3,684
49,350
49,400
0
0
1,346
2,216
0
1,059
2,804
3,674
49,400
49,450
0
0
1,336
2,206
0
1,051
2,793
3,663
49,450
49,500
0
0
1,325
2,195
0
1,043
2,783
3,653
49,500
49,550
0
0
1,315
2,185
0
1,035
2,772
3,642
49,550
49,600
0
0
1,304
2,174
0
1,027
2,762
3,632
49,600
49,650
0
0
1,294
2,164
0
1,019
2,751
3,621
49,650
49,700
0
0
1,283
2,153
0
1,011
2,741
3,611
49,700
49,750
0
0
1,273
2,143
0
1,003
2,730
3,600
49,750
49,800
0
0
1,262
2,132
0
995
2,720
3,590
49,800
49,850
0
0
1,252
2,122
0
987
2,709
3,579
49,850
49,900
0
0
1,241
2,111
0
979
2,699
3,569
49,900
49,950
0
0
1,231
2,101
0
971
2,688
3,558
49,950
50,000
0
0
1,220
2,090
0
963
2,677
3,547
50,000
50,050
0
0
1,210
2,080
0
955
2,667
3,537
50,050
50,100
0
0
1,199
2,069
0
947
2,656
3,526
50,100
50,150
0
0
1,189
2,059
0
939
2,646
3,516
50,150
50,200
0
0
1,178
2,048
0
932
2,635
3,505
50,200
50,250
0
0
1,167
2,037
0
924
2,625
3,495
50,250
50,300
0
0
1,157
2,027
0
916
2,614
3,484
50,300
50,350
0
0
1,146
2,016
0
908
2,604
3,474
50,350
50,400
0
0
1,136
2,006
0
900
2,593
3,463
50,400
50,450
0
0
1,125
1,995
0
892
2,583
3,453
50,450
50,500
0
0
1,115
1,985
0
884
2,572
3,442
50,500
50,550
0
0
1,104
1,974
0
876
2,562
3,432
50,550
50,600
0
0
1,094
1,964
0
868
2,551
3,421
50,600
50,650
0
0
1,083
1,953
0
860
2,541
3,411
50,650
50,700
0
0
1,073
1,943
0
852
2,530
3,400
50,700
50,750
0
0
1,062
1,932
0
844
2,519
3,389
50,750
50,800
0
0
1,052
1,922
0
836
2,509
3,379
50,800
50,850
0
0
1,041
1,911
0
828
2,498
3,368
50,850
50,900
0
0
1,031
1,901
0
820
2,488
3,358
50,900
50,950
0
0
1,020
1,890
0
812
2,477
3,347
50,950
51,000
0
0
1,009
1,879
0
804
2,467
3,337
51,000
51,050
0
0
999
1,869
0
796
2,456
3,326
51,050
51,100
0
0
988
1,858
0
788
2,446
3,316
51,100
51,150
0
0
978
1,848
0
780
2,435
3,305
51,150
51,200
0
0
967
1,837
0
772
2,425
3,295
51,200
51,250
0
0
957
1,827
0
764
2,414
3,284
51,250
51,300
0
0
946
1,816
0
756
2,404
3,274
51,300
51,350
0
0
936
1,806
0
748
2,393
3,263
51,350
51,400
0
0
925
1,795
0
740
2,383
3,253
51,400
51,450
0
0
915
1,785
0
732
2,372
3,242
51,450
51,500
0
0
904
1,774
0
724
2,362
3,232
51,500
51,550
0
0
894
1,764
0
716
2,351
3,221
51,550
51,600
0
0
883
1,753
0
708
2,340
3,210
51,600
51,650
0
0
873
1,743
0
700
2,330
3,200
51,650
51,700
0
0
862
1,732
0
692
2,319
3,189
51,700
51,750
0
0
852
1,722
0
684
2,309
3,179
51,750
51,800
0
0
841
1,711
0
676
2,298
3,168
51,800
51,850
0
0
830
1,700
0
668
2,288
3,158
51,850
51,900
0
0
820
1,690
0
660
2,277
3,147
51,900
51,950
0
0
809
1,679
0
652
2,267
3,137
51,950
52,000
0
0
799
1,669
0
644
2,256
3,126
52,000
52,050
0
0
788
1,658
0
636
2,246
3,116
52,050
52,100
0
0
778
1,648
0
628
2,235
3,105
52,100
52,150
0
0
767
1,637
0
620
2,225
3,095
52,150
52,200
0
0
757
1,627
0
612
2,214
3,084
52,200
52,250
0
0
746
1,616
0
604
2,204
3,074
52,250
52,300
0
0
736
1,606
0
596
2,193
3,063
52,300
52,350
0
0
725
1,595
0
588
2,183
3,053
52,350
52,400
0
0
715
1,585
0
580
2,172
3,042
52,400
52,450
0
0
704
1,574
0
572
2,161
3,031
52,450
52,500
0
0
694
1,564
0
564
2,151
3,021
52,500
52,550
0
0
683
1,553
0
556
2,140
3,010
52,550
52,600
0
0
673
1,543
0
548
2,130
3,000
52,600
52,650
0
0
662
1,532
0
540
2,119
2,989
52,650
52,700
0
0
651
1,521
0
532
2,109
2,979
52,700
52,750
0
0
641
1,511
0
524
2,098
2,968
52,750
52,800
0
0
630
1,500
0
516
2,088
2,958
52,800
52,850
0
0
620
1,490
0
508
2,077
2,947
52,850
52,900
0
0
609
1,479
0
500
2,067
2,937
52,900
52,950
0
0
599
1,469
0
492
2,056
2,926
52,950
53,000
0
0
588
1,458
0
484
2,046
2,916
53,000
53,050
0
0
578
1,448
0
476
2,035
2,905
53,050
53,100
0
0
567
1,437
0
468
2,025
2,895
53,100
53,150
0
0
557
1,427
0
460
2,014
2,884
53,150
53,200
0
0
546
1,416
0
452
2,004
2,874
53,200
53,250
0
0
536
1,406
0
444
1,993
2,863
53,250
53,300
0
0
525
1,395
0
436
1,982
2,852
53,300
53,350
0
0
515
1,385
0
428
1,972
2,842
53,350
53,400
0
0
504
1,374
0
420
1,961
2,831
53,400
53,450
0
0
494
1,364
0
412
1,951
2,821
53,450
53,500
0
0
483
1,353
0
404
1,940
2,810
53,500
53,550
0
0
472
1,342
0
396
1,930
2,800
53,550
53,600
0
0
462
1,332
0
388
1,919
2,789
53,600
53,650
0
0
451
1,321
0
380
1,909
2,779
53,650
53,700
0
0
441
1,311
0
372
1,898
2,768
53,700
53,750
0
0
430
1,300
0
364
1,888
2,758
53,750
53,800
0
0
420
1,290
0
356
1,877
2,747
53,800
53,850
0
0
409
1,279
0
348
1,867
2,737
53,850
53,900
0
0
399
1,269
0
340
1,856
2,726
53,900
53,950
0
0
388
1,258
0
332
1,846
2,716
53,950
54,000
0
0
378
1,248
0
324
1,835
2,705
54,000
54,050
0
0
367
1,237
0
316
1,825
2,695
54,050
54,100
0
0
357
1,227
0
308
1,814
2,684
54,100
54,150
0
0
346
1,216
0
300
1,803
2,673
54,150
54,200
0
0
336
1,206
0
292
1,793
2,663
54,200
54,250
0
0
325
1,195
0
284
1,782
2,652
54,250
54,300
0
0
315
1,185
0
276
1,772
2,642
54,300
54,350
0
0
304
1,174
0
268
1,761
2,631
54,350
54,400
0
0
293
1,163
0
260
1,751
2,621
54,400
54,450
0
0
283
1,153
0
252
1,740
2,610
54,450
54,500
0
0
272
1,142
0
244
1,730
2,600
54,500
54,550
0
0
262
1,132
0
236
1,719
2,589
54,550
54,600
0
0
251
1,121
0
228
1,709
2,579
54,600
54,650
0
0
241
1,111
0
220
1,698
2,568
54,650
54,700
0
0
230
1,100
0
212
1,688
2,558
54,700
54,750
0
0
220
1,090
0
204
1,677
2,547
54,750
54,800
0
0
209
1,079
0
196
1,667
2,537
54,800
54,850
0
0
199
1,069
0
188
1,656
2,526
54,850
54,900
0
0
188
1,058
0
180
1,646
2,516
54,900
54,950
0
0
178
1,048
0
172
1,635
2,505
54,950
55,000
0
0
167
1,037
0
164
1,624
2,494
55,000
55,050
0
0
157
1,027
0
156
1,614
2,484
55,050
55,100
0
0
146
1,016
0
148
1,603
2,473
55,100
55,150
0
0
136
1,006
0
140
1,593
2,463
55,150
55,200
0
0
125
995
0
133
1,582
2,452
55,200
55,250
0
0
114
984
0
125
1,572
2,442
55,250
55,300
0
0
104
974
0
117
1,561
2,431
55,300
55,350
0
0
93
963
0
109
1,551
2,421
55,350
55,400
0
0
83
953
0
101
1,540
2,410
55,400
55,450
0
0
72
942
0
93
1,530
2,400
55,450
55,500
0
0
62
932
0
85
1,519
2,389
55,500
55,550
0
0
51
921
0
77
1,509
2,379
55,550
55,600
0
0
41
911
0
69
1,498
2,368
55,600
55,650
0
0
30
900
0
61
1,488
2,358
55,650
55,700
0
0
20
890
0
53
1,477
2,347
55,700
55,750
0
0
9
879
0
45
1,466
2,336
55,750
55,800
0
0
*
* If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $55,750 but less than $55,768, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $55,768 or more, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the credit.
869
0
37
1,456
2,326
55,800
55,850
0
0
0
858
0
29
1,445
2,315
55,850
55,900
0
0
0
848
0
21
1,435
2,305
55,900
55,950
0
0
0
837
0
13
1,424
2,294
55,950
56,000
0
0
0
826
0
5
1,414
2,284
56,000
56,050
0
0
0
816
0
*
* If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $56,000 but less than $56,004, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, your credit is $0.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $56,004 or more, and you have one qualifying child who has a valid SSN, you can’t take the credit.
1,403
2,273
56,050
56,100
0
0
0
805
0
0
1,393
2,263
56,100
56,150
0
0
0
795
0
0
1,382
2,252
56,150
56,200
0
0
0
784
0
0
1,372
2,242
56,200
56,250
0
0
0
774
0
0
1,361
2,231
56,250
56,300
0
0
0
763
0
0
1,351
2,221
56,300
56,350
0
0
0
753
0
0
1,340
2,210
56,350
56,400
0
0
0
742
0
0
1,330
2,200
56,400
56,450
0
0
0
732
0
0
1,319
2,189
56,450
56,500
0
0
0
721
0
0
1,309
2,179
56,500
56,550
0
0
0
711
0
0
1,298
2,168
56,550
56,600
0
0
0
700
0
0
1,287
2,157
56,600
56,650
0
0
0
690
0
0
1,277
2,147
56,650
56,700
0
0
0
679
0
0
1,266
2,136
56,700
56,750
0
0
0
669
0
0
1,256
2,126
56,750
56,800
0
0
0
658
0
0
1,245
2,115
56,800
56,850
0
0
0
647
0
0
1,235
2,105
56,850
56,900
0
0
0
637
0
0
1,224
2,094
56,900
56,950
0
0
0
626
0
0
1,214
2,084
56,950
57,000
0
0
0
616
0
0
1,203
2,073
57,000
57,050
0
0
0
605
0
0
1,193
2,063
57,050
57,100
0
0
0
595
0
0
1,182
2,052
57,100
57,150
0
0
0
584
0
0
1,172
2,042
57,150
57,200
0
0
0
574
0
0
1,161
2,031
57,200
57,250
0
0
0
563
0
0
1,151
2,021
57,250
57,300
0
0
0
553
0
0
1,140
2,010
57,300
57,350
0
0
0
542
0
0
1,130
2,000
57,350
57,400
0
0
0
532
0
0
1,119
1,989
57,400
57,450
0
0
0
521
0
0
1,108
1,978
57,450
57,500
0
0
0
511
0
0
1,098
1,968
57,500
57,550
0
0
0
500
0
0
1,087
1,957
57,550
57,600
0
0
0
490
0
0
1,077
1,947
57,600
57,650
0
0
0
479
0
0
1,066
1,936
57,650
57,700
0
0
0
468
0
0
1,056
1,926
57,700
57,750
0
0
0
458
0
0
1,045
1,915
57,750
57,800
0
0
0
447
0
0
1,035
1,905
57,800
57,850
0
0
0
437
0
0
1,024
1,894
57,850
57,900
0
0
0
426
0
0
1,014
1,884
57,900
57,950
0
0
0
416
0
0
1,003
1,873
57,950
58,000
0
0
0
405
0
0
993
1,863
58,000
58,050
0
0
0
395
0
0
982
1,852
58,050
58,100
0
0
0
384
0
0
972
1,842
58,100
58,150
0
0
0
374
0
0
961
1,831
58,150
58,200
0
0
0
363
0
0
951
1,821
58,200
58,250
0
0
0
353
0
0
940
1,810
58,250
58,300
0
0
0
342
0
0
929
1,799
58,300
58,350
0
0
0
332
0
0
919
1,789
58,350
58,400
0
0
0
321
0
0
908
1,778
58,400
58,450
0
0
0
311
0
0
898
1,768
58,450
58,500
0
0
0
300
0
0
887
1,757
58,500
58,550
0
0
0
289
0
0
877
1,747
58,550
58,600
0
0
0
279
0
0
866
1,736
58,600
58,650
0
0
0
268
0
0
856
1,726
58,650
58,700
0
0
0
258
0
0
845
1,715
58,700
58,750
0
0
0
247
0
0
835
1,705
58,750
58,800
0
0
0
237
0
0
824
1,694
58,800
58,850
0
0
0
226
0
0
814
1,684
58,850
58,900
0
0
0
216
0
0
803
1,673
58,900
58,950
0
0
0
205
0
0
793
1,663
58,950
59,000
0
0
0
195
0
0
782
1,652
59,000
59,050
0
0
0
184
0
0
772
1,642
59,050
59,100
0
0
0
174
0
0
761
1,631
59,100
59,150
0
0
0
163
0
0
750
1,620
59,150
59,200
0
0
0
153
0
0
740
1,610
59,200
59,250
0
0
0
142
0
0
729
1,599
59,250
59,300
0
0
0
132
0
0
719
1,589
59,300
59,350
0
0
0
121
0
0
708
1,578
59,350
59,400
0
0
0
110
0
0
698
1,568
59,400
59,450
0
0
0
100
0
0
687
1,557
59,450
59,500
0
0
0
89
0
0
677
1,547
59,500
59,550
0
0
0
79
0
0
666
1,536
59,550
59,600
0
0
0
68
0
0
656
1,526
59,600
59,650
0
0
0
58
0
0
645
1,515
59,650
59,700
0
0
0
47
0
0
635
1,505
59,700
59,750
0
0
0
37
0
0
624
1,494
59,750
59,800
0
0
0
26
0
0
614
1,484
59,800
59,850
0
0
0
16
0
0
603
1,473
59,850
59,900
0
0
0
**
** If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $59,850 but less than $59,899, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, your credit is $5.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $59,899 or more, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the credit.
0
0
593
1,463
59,900
59,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
582
1,452
59,950
60,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
571
1,441
60,000
60,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
561
1,431
60,050
60,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
550
1,420
60,100
60,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
540
1,410
60,150
60,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
529
1,399
60,200
60,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
519
1,389
60,250
60,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
508
1,378
60,300
60,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
498
1,368
60,350
60,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
487
1,357
60,400
60,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
477
1,347
60,450
60,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
466
1,336
60,500
60,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
456
1,326
60,550
60,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
445
1,315
60,600
60,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
435
1,305
60,650
60,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
424
1,294
60,700
60,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
413
1,283
60,750
60,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
403
1,273
60,800
60,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
392
1,262
60,850
60,900
0
0
0
0
0
0
382
1,252
60,900
60,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
371
1,241
60,950
61,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
361
1,231
61,000
61,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
350
1,220
61,050
61,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
340
1,210
61,100
61,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
329
1,199
61,150
61,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
319
1,189
61,200
61,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
308
1,178
61,250
61,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
298
1,168
61,300
61,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
287
1,157
61,350
61,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
277
1,147
61,400
61,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
266
1,136
61,450
61,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
256
1,126
61,500
61,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
245
1,115
61,550
61,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
234
1,104
61,600
61,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
224
1,094
61,650
61,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
213
1,083
61,700
61,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
203
1,073
61,750
61,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
192
1,062
61,800
61,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
182
1,052
61,850
61,900
0
0
0
0
0
0
171
1,041
61,900
61,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
161
1,031
61,950
62,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
150
1,020
62,000
62,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
140
1,010
62,050
62,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
129
999
62,100
62,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
119
989
62,150
62,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
108
978
62,200
62,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
98
968
62,250
62,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
87
957
62,300
62,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
77
947
62,350
62,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
66
936
62,400
62,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
55
925
62,450
62,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
45
915
62,500
62,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
34
904
62,550
62,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
24
894
62,600
62,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
13
883
62,650
62,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
*
* If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $62,650 but less than $62,688, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, your credit is $4.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $62,688 or more, and you have two qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the credit.
873
62,700
62,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
862
62,750
62,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
852
62,800
62,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
841
62,850
62,900
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
831
62,900
62,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
820
62,950
63,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
810
63,000
63,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
799
63,050
63,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
789
63,100
63,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
778
63,150
63,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
768
63,200
63,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
757
63,250
63,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
746
63,300
63,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
736
63,350
63,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
725
63,400
63,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
715
63,450
63,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
704
63,500
63,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
694
63,550
63,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
683
63,600
63,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
673
63,650
63,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
662
63,700
63,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
652
63,750
63,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
641
63,800
63,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
631
63,850
63,900
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
620
63,900
63,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
610
63,950
64,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
599
64,000
64,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
589
64,050
64,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
578
64,100
64,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
567
64,150
64,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
557
64,200
64,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
546
64,250
64,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
536
64,300
64,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
525
64,350
64,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
515
64,400
64,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
504
64,450
64,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
494
64,500
64,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
483
64,550
64,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
473
64,600
64,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
462
64,650
64,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
452
64,700
64,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
441
64,750
64,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
431
64,800
64,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
420
64,850
64,900
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
410
64,900
64,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
399
64,950
65,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
388
65,000
65,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
378
65,050
65,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
367
65,100
65,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
357
65,150
65,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
346
65,200
65,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
336
65,250
65,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
325
65,300
65,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
315
65,350
65,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
304
65,400
65,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
294
65,450
65,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
283
65,500
65,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
273
65,550
65,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
262
65,600
65,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
252
65,650
65,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
241
65,700
65,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
230
65,750
65,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
220
65,800
65,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
209
65,850
65,900
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
199
65,900
65,950
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
188
65,950
66,000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
178
66,000
66,050
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
167
66,050
66,100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
157
66,100
66,150
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
146
66,150
66,200
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
136
66,200
66,250
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
125
66,250
66,300
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
115
66,300
66,350
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
104
66,350
66,400
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
94
66,400
66,450
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
83
66,450
66,500
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
73
66,500
66,550
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
62
66,550
66,600
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
51
66,600
66,650
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
41
66,650
66,700
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
66,700
66,750
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
20
66,750
66,800
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
66,800
66,850
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
**
** If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is at least $66,800 but less than $66,819, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, your credit is $2.
If the amount you are looking up from the worksheet is $66,819 or more, and you have three qualifying children who have valid SSNs, you can’t take the credit.
Line 28
Additional Child Tax Credit
See Schedule 8812 (Form 1040) and its instructions for information on figuring and claiming any additional child tax credit that you may qualify to claim. If you are claiming the additional child tax credit, complete Schedule 8812 and attach it to your Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Form 8862, who must file.
You must file Form 8862 to claim the additional child tax credit if your child tax credit (refundable or nonrefundable depending on the tax year), additional child tax credit, or credit for other dependents for a year after 2015 was denied or reduced for any reason other than a math or clerical error. Attach a completed Form 8862 to your 2024 return to claim the credit for 2024. Don't file Form 8862 if you filed Form 8862 for 2023 and the child tax credit, additional child tax credit, or credit for other dependents was allowed for that year. See Form 8862 and its instructions for details.
If you claim the additional child tax credit even though you aren't eligible and it is determined that your error is due to reckless or intentional disregard of the additional child tax credit rules, you won't be allowed to take the child tax credit, the credit for other dependents, or the additional child tax credit for 2 years even if you’re otherwise eligible to do so. If you claim the additional child tax credit even though you aren’t eligible and it is later determined that you fraudulently claimed the credit, you won't be allowed to take the child tax credit, the credit for other dependents, or the additional child tax credit for 10 years. You may also have to pay penalties.
Refunds for returns claiming the additional child tax credit can't be issued before mid-February 2025. This delay applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with the additional child tax credit.
Line 29
American Opportunity Credit
If you meet the requirements to claim an education credit (see the instructions for Schedule 3, line 3), enter on line 29 the amount, if any, from Form 8863, line 8. You may be able to increase an education credit and reduce your total tax or increase your tax refund if the student chooses to include all or part of a Pell grant or certain other scholarships or fellowships in income. See Pub. 970 and the Instructions for Form 8863 for more information.
Form 8862 required.
You must file Form 8862 to claim the American opportunity credit if your American opportunity credit for a year after 2015 was denied or reduced for any reason other than a math or clerical error. Attach a completed Form 8862 to your 2024 return to claim the credit for 2024. Don't file Form 8862 if you filed Form 8862 for 2023 and the American opportunity credit was allowed for that year. See Form 8862 and its instructions for details.
If you claim the American opportunity credit even though you aren't eligible and it is determined that your error is due to reckless or intentional disregard of the American opportunity credit rules, you won't be allowed to take the credit for 2 years even if you’re otherwise eligible to do so. If you claim the American opportunity credit even though you aren't eligible and it is determined that you fraudulently claimed the credit, you won't be allowed to take the credit for 10 years. You may also have to pay penalties.
Line 30
Line 30 has been reserved for future use.
Refund
Line 34
Amount Overpaid
If line 34 is under $1, we will send a refund only on written request.
Refund Offset
If you owe past-due federal tax, state income tax, state unemployment compensation debts, child support, spousal support, or certain federal nontax debts, such as student loans, all or part of the overpayment on line 34 may be used (offset) to pay the past-due amount. Offsets for federal taxes are made by the IRS. All other offsets are made by the Treasury Department's Bureau of the Fiscal Service. For federal tax offsets, you will receive a notice from the IRS. For all other offsets, you will receive a notice from the Fiscal Service. To find out if you may have an offset or if you have any questions about it, contact the agency to which you owe the debt.
Deposit Refund Into Multiple Accounts
If you want your refund to be split and direct deposited into more than one account, file Form 8888. Use Form 8888 to direct deposit your refund (or part of it) to one or more accounts in your name at a bank or other financial institution (such as a mutual fund, brokerage firm, or credit union) in the United States.
Injured Spouse
If you file a joint return and your spouse hasn’t paid past-due federal tax, state income tax, state unemployment compensation debts, child support, spousal support, or a federal nontax debt, such as a student loan, part or all of the overpayment on line 34 may be used (offset) to pay the past-due amount. But your part of the overpayment may be refunded to you if certain conditions apply and you complete Form 8379. For details, see Form 8379.
Lines 35a Through 35d
Amount Refunded to You
If you want to check the status of your refund, just use the IRS2Go app or go to IRS.gov/Refunds. See Refund Information, later. Information about your refund will generally be available within 24 hours after the IRS receives your e-filed return, or 4 weeks after you mail your paper return. If you filed Form 8379 with your return, wait 14 weeks (11 weeks if you filed electronically). Have your 2024 tax return handy so you can enter your social security number, your filing status, and the exact whole dollar amount of your refund.
Where's My Refund will provide a personalized refund date as soon as the IRS processes your tax return and approves your refund.
Claiming a refund for a deceased taxpayer.
If you are filing a joint return with your deceased spouse, you only need to file the tax return to claim the refund. If you are a court-appointed representative, file the return and include a copy of the certificate that shows your appointment. All other filers requesting the deceased taxpayer's refund must file the return and attach Form 1310.
Effect of refund on benefits.
Any refund you receive can't be counted as income when determining if you or anyone else is eligible for benefits or assistance, or how much you or anyone else can receive, under any federal program or under any state or local program financed in whole or in part with federal funds. These programs include Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps). In addition, when determining eligibility, the refund can't be counted as a resource for at least 12 months after you receive it. Check with your local benefit coordinator to find out if your refund will affect your benefits.
Fast Refunds! Join the eight in 10 taxpayers who choose direct deposit—a fast, simple, safe, secure way to have your refund deposited automatically to your checking or savings account, including an individual retirement arrangement (IRA). See the information about IRAs, later.
If you want us to directly deposit the amount shown on line 35a to your checking, savings, health savings, brokerage or other similar account, including an IRA, at a bank or other financial institution (such as a mutual fund, brokerage firm, or credit union) in the United States:
Complete lines 35b through 35d (if you want your refund deposited to only one account), or
Check the box on line 35a and attach Form 8888 if you want to split the direct deposit of your refund into more than one account.
If you don’t want your refund directly deposited to your account, don’t check the box on line 35a. Draw a line through the boxes on lines 35b and 35d. We will send you a check instead.
Account must be in your name.
Don’t request a deposit of your refund to an account that isn't in your name, such as your tax return preparer’s account. Although you may owe your tax return preparer a fee for preparing your return, don’t have any part of your refund deposited into the preparer's account to pay the fee.
The number of refunds that can be directly deposited to a single account or prepaid debit card is limited to three a year. After this limit is reached, paper checks will be sent instead. Learn more at IRS.gov/DepositLimit.
Why Use Direct Deposit?
You get your refund faster by direct deposit than you do by check.
Payment is more secure. There is no check that can get lost or stolen.
It is more convenient. You don’t have to make a trip to the bank to deposit your check.
It saves tax dollars. It costs the government less to refund by direct deposit.
It's proven itself. Nearly 98% of social security and veterans' benefits are sent electronically using direct deposit.
If you file a joint return and check the box on line 35a and attach Form 8888 or fill in lines 35b through 35d, your spouse may get at least part of the refund.
IRA.
You can have your refund (or part of it) directly deposited to a traditional IRA or Roth IRA, but not a SIMPLE IRA. You must establish the IRA at a bank or other financial institution before you request direct deposit. Make sure your direct deposit will be accepted. You must also notify the trustee or custodian of your account of the year to which the deposit is to be applied (unless the trustee or custodian won't accept a deposit for 2024). If you don’t, the trustee or custodian can assume the deposit is for the year during which you are filing the return. For example, if you file your 2024 return during 2025 and don’t notify the trustee or custodian in advance, the trustee or custodian can assume the deposit to your IRA is for 2025. If you designate your deposit to be for 2024, you must verify that the deposit was actually made to the account by the due date of the return (not counting extensions). If the deposit isn't made by that date, the deposit isn't an IRA contribution for 2024. In that case, you must file an amended 2024 return and reduce any IRA deduction and any retirement savings contributions credit you claimed.
You and your spouse, if filing jointly, each may be able to contribute up to $7,000 ($8,000 if age 50 or older at the end of 2024) to a traditional IRA or Roth IRA for 2024. You may owe an additional tax if your contributions exceed these limits, and the limits may be lower depending on your compensation and income. For more information on IRA contributions, see Pub. 590-A.
For more information on IRAs, see Pub. 590-A and Pub. 590-B.
Form 8888.
You can have your refund directly deposited into more than one account. For more information, see the Form 8888 instructions.
Your refund can be split and directly deposited into up to three different accounts in your name on Form 8888.
Line 35b
The routing number must be nine digits. The first two digits must be 01 through 12 or 21 through 32. On the sample check shown later, the routing number is 250250025. C. and M. Keys would use that routing number unless their financial institution instructed them to use a different routing number for direct deposits.
Ask your financial institution for the correct routing number to enter on line 35b if:
The routing number on a deposit slip is different from the routing number on your checks,
Your deposit is to a savings account that doesn't allow you to write checks, or
Your checks state they are payable through a financial institution different from the one at which you have your checking account.
Line 35c
Check the appropriate box for the type of account. Don’t check more than one box. If the deposit is to an account such as an IRA, health savings account, brokerage account, or other similar account, ask your financial institution whether you should check the “Checking” or “Savings” box. You must check the correct box to ensure your deposit is accepted.
Line 35d
The account number can be up to 17 characters (both numbers and letters). Include hyphens but omit spaces and special symbols. Enter the number from left to right and leave any unused boxes blank. On the sample check shown later, the account number is 20202086. Don’t include the check number.
If the direct deposit to your account(s) is different from the amount you expected, you will receive an explanation in the mail about 2 weeks after your refund is deposited.
Sample Check—Lines 35b Through 35d
Sample Check-Lines 35b Through 35d
Sample Check—Lines 35b Through 35d
Sample Check—Lines 35b Through 35d
Summary: This is a picture of a check to show where the routing number, account number, and check number are located as referred to in the text. There is a note stating "DO NOT include the check number." Footnote: The routing and account numbers may be in different places on your check.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
Reasons Your Direct Deposit Request Will Be Rejected
If any of the following apply, your direct deposit request will be rejected and a check will be sent instead.
You are asking to have a joint refund deposited to an individual account, and your financial institution(s) won't allow this. The IRS isn't responsible if a financial institution rejects a direct deposit.
The name on your account doesn't match the name on the refund, and your financial institution(s) won't allow a refund to be deposited unless the name on the refund matches the name on the account.
Three direct deposits of tax refunds already have been made to the same account or prepaid debit card.
You haven't given a valid account number.
Any numbers or letters on lines 35b through 35d are crossed out or whited out.
The IRS isn't responsible for a lost refund if you enter the wrong account information. Check with your financial institution to get the correct routing and account numbers and to make sure your direct deposit will be accepted.
Line 36
Applied to Your 2025 Estimated Tax
Enter on line 36 the amount, if any, of the overpayment on line 34 you want applied to your 2025 estimated tax. We will apply this amount to your account unless you include a statement requesting us to apply it to your spouse's account. Include your spouse's social security number in the statement.
This election to apply part or all of the amount overpaid to your 2025 estimated tax can't be changed later.
Amount You Owe
To avoid interest and penalties, pay your taxes in full by the due date of your return (not including extensions)—April 15, 2025, for most taxpayers. You don’t have to pay if line 37 is under $1.
Include any estimated tax penalty from line 38 in the amount you enter on line 37. Don’t include any estimated payments for 2025 in this payment. Instead, make the estimated payment separately.
Bad check or payment.
The penalty for writing a bad check to the IRS is $25 or 2% of the check, whichever is more. However, if the amount of the check is less than $25, the penalty equals the amount of the check. This also applies to other forms of payment if the IRS doesn’t receive the funds. Use Tax Topic 206.
Line 37
Amount You Owe
The IRS offers several payment options. You can pay online, by phone, mobile device, cash, check, or money order. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for payment options.
Pay Online
Paying online is convenient and secure and helps make sure we get your payments on time. To pay your taxes online or for more information, go to IRS.gov/Payments. You can pay using any of the following methods.
Your Online Account. You can make tax payments through your online account, including balance payments, estimated tax payments, or other types. You can also see your payment history and other tax records there. Go to IRS.gov/Account.
IRS Direct Pay. For online transfers directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you, go to IRS.gov/Payments.
Pay by Card or Digital Wallet. To pay by debit or credit card, or digital wallet, go to IRS.gov/Payments. A fee is charged by these service providers. You can also pay by phone with a debit or credit card. See Debit or credit card under Pay by Phone, later.
Electronic Funds Withdrawal (EFW) is an integrated e-file/e-pay option offered when filing your federal taxes electronically using tax return preparation software, through a tax professional, or the IRS at IRS.gov/Payments.
Online Payment Agreement. If you can’t pay in full by the due date of your tax return, you can apply for an online monthly installment agreement at IRS.gov/OPA. Once you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved. A user fee is charged.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS). Allows you to pay your taxes online or by phone directly from your checking or savings account. There is no fee for this service. You must be enrolled either online or have an enrollment form mailed to you. See EFTPS under Pay by Phone, later.
Pay by Phone
Paying by phone is another safe and secure method of paying electronically. Use one of the following methods: (1) call one of the debit or credit card service providers, or (2) use the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) to pay directly from your checking or savings account.
Debit or credit card.
Call one of our service providers. Each charges a fee that varies by provider, card type, and payment amount.
ACI Payments, Inc.
888-UPAY-TAXTM
(888-872-9829)
fed.acipayonline.com
Link2Gov Corporation
888-PAY-1040TM
(888-729-1040)
www.PAY1040.com
EFTPS.
To get more information about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, visit EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. To contact EFTPS using Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, dial 711 and then provide the TRS assistant the 800-555-4477 number or 800-733-4829. Additional information about EFTPS is also available in Pub. 966.
Pay by Mobile Device
To pay through your mobile device, download the IRS2Go app.
Pay by Cash
You can pay your taxes in cash. To find out about the different cash payment methods, go to IRS.gov/PayCash. Don’t send cash payments through the mail.
Pay by Check or Money Order
Before submitting a payment through the mail, please consider alternative methods. One of our safe, quick, and easy electronic payment options might be right for you. If you choose to mail a tax payment, make your check or money order payable to “United States Treasury” for the full amount due. Don’t send cash. Don’t attach the payment to your return. Write “2024 Form 1040” or “2024 Form 1040-SR” and your name, address, daytime phone number, and social security number (SSN) on your payment and attach Form 1040-V. For the most up-to-date information on Form 1040-V, go to IRS.gov/Form1040V. If you are filing a joint return, enter the SSN shown first on your tax return.
To help us process your payment, enter the amount on the right side of the check like this: $ XXX.XX. Don’t use dashes or lines (for example, don’t enter “$ XXX–” or “$ XXXxx/100”).
Mail your 2024 tax return, payment, and Form 1040-V to the address shown on the form that applies to you. If you e-filed your return, but choose to make a payment through the mail, mail your 2024 payment and Form 1040-V to the address shown on the form that applies to you.
Notice to taxpayers presenting checks.
When you provide a check as payment, you authorize us either to use information from your check to make a one-time electronic fund transfer from your account or to process the payment as a check transaction. When we use information from your check to make an electronic fund transfer, funds may be withdrawn from your account as soon as the same day we receive your payment, and you won’t receive your check back from your financial institution.
No checks of $100 million or more accepted.
The IRS can’t accept a single check (including a cashier’s check) for amounts of $100,000,000 ($100 million) or more. If you are sending $100 million or more by check, you’ll need to spread the payment over 2 or more checks with each check made out for an amount less than $100 million. This limit doesn’t apply to other methods of payment (such as electronic payments). Please consider a method of payment other than check if the amount of the payment is over $100 million.
What if You Can't Pay?
If you can't pay the full amount shown on line 37 when you file, you can ask for:
An installment agreement, or
An extension of time to pay.
Installment agreement.
Under an installment agreement, you can pay all or part of the tax you owe in monthly installments. However, even if an installment agreement is granted, you will be charged interest and may be charged a late payment penalty on the tax not paid by the due date of your return (not counting extensions)—April 15, 2025, for most people. You must also pay a fee. To limit the interest and penalty charges, pay as much of the tax as possible when you file. But before requesting an installment agreement, you should consider other less costly alternatives, such as a bank loan or credit card payment.
To ask for an installment agreement, you can apply online or use Form 9465. To apply online, go to IRS.gov/OPA.
Extension of time to pay.
If paying the tax when it is due would cause you an undue hardship, you can ask for an extension of time to pay by filing Form 1127 by the due date of your return (not counting extensions)—April 15, 2025, for most people. An extension generally won't be granted for more than 6 months. You will be charged interest on the tax not paid by April 15, 2025. You must pay the tax before the extension runs out. If you do not pay the tax by the extended due date, penalties and interest will be imposed until taxes are paid in full. For the most up-to-date information on Form 1127, go to IRS.gov/Form1127.
Line 38
Estimated Tax Penalty
You may owe this penalty if:
Line 37 is at least $1,000 and it is more than 10% of the tax shown on your return, or
You didn't pay enough estimated tax by any of the due dates. This is true even if you are due a refund.
For most people, the “tax shown on your return” is the amount on your 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24, minus the total of any amounts shown on lines 27, 28, and 29; Schedule 3, lines 9 and 12; and Forms 8828, 4137, 5329 (Parts III through IX only), and 8919. Also subtract from line 24 any:
Tax on an excess parachute payment,
Excise tax on insider stock compensation of an expatriated corporation,
Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or group-term life insurance,
Look-back interest due under section 167(g) or 460(b).
When figuring the amount on line 24, include household employment taxes only if line 25d is more than zero or you would owe the penalty even if you didn't include those taxes.
Exception.
You won't owe the penalty if your 2023 tax return was for a tax year of 12 full months and either of the following applies.
You had no tax shown on your 2023 return and you were a U.S. citizen or resident for all of 2023.
The total of lines 25d, 26, and Schedule 3, line 11, on your 2024 return is at least 100% of the tax shown on your 2023 return (110% of that amount if you aren't in the business of farming or fishing, and your adjusted gross income (AGI) shown on your 2023 return was more than $150,000 (more than $75,000 if married filing separately for 2024)). Your estimated tax payments for 2024 must have been made on time and for the required amount.
For most people, the “tax shown on your 2023 return” is the amount on your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24, minus the total of any amounts shown on lines 27, 28, and 29; Schedule 3, lines 9 and 12; Schedule H, lines 8e and 8f; and Forms 8828, 4137, 5329 (Parts III through IX only), and 8919. Also subtract from line 24 any:
Tax on an excess parachute payment,
Excise tax on insider stock compensation of an expatriated corporation,
Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or group-term life insurance, and
Look-back interest due under section 167(g) or 460(b).
When figuring the amount on line 24, include household employment taxes only if line 25d is more than zero or you would have owed the estimated tax penalty for 2023 even if you didn't include those taxes.
If the Exception just described doesn't apply, see the Instructions for Form 2210 for other situations in which you may be able to lower your penalty by filing Form 2210.
Figuring the Penalty
If you choose to figure the penalty yourself, use Form 2210 (or 2210-F for farmers and fishers).
Enter any penalty on line 38. Add the penalty to any tax due and enter the total on line 37.
However, if you have an overpayment on line 34, subtract the penalty from the amount you would otherwise enter on line 35a or line 36. Lines 35a, 36, and 38 must equal line 34.
If the penalty is more than the overpayment on line 34, enter -0- on lines 35a and 36. Then, subtract line 34 from line 38 and enter the result on line 37.
Don’t file Form 2210 with your return unless Form 2210 indicates that you must do so. Instead, keep it for your records.
Because Form 2210 is complicated, you can leave line 38 blank and the IRS will figure the penalty and send you a bill. We won't charge you interest on the penalty if you pay by the date specified on the bill. There are situations where the IRS can't figure your penalty for you and you must file Form 2210. See Form 2210 for details.
Third Party Designee
If you want to allow your preparer, a friend, a family member, or any other person you choose to discuss your 2024 tax return with the IRS, check the “Yes” box in the “Third Party Designee” area of your return. Also enter the designee's name, phone number, and any five digits the designee chooses as their personal identification number (PIN).
If you check the “Yes” box, you, and your spouse if filing a joint return, are authorizing the IRS to call the designee to answer any questions that may arise during the processing of your return. You are also authorizing the designee to:
Give the IRS any information that is missing from your return;
Call the IRS for information about the processing of your return or the status of your refund or payment(s);
Receive copies of notices or transcripts related to your return, upon request; and
Respond to certain IRS notices about math errors, offsets, and return preparation.
You aren't authorizing the designee to receive any refund check, bind you to anything (including any additional tax liability), or otherwise represent you before the IRS. If you want to expand the designee's authorization, see Pub. 947.
This authorization will automatically end no later than the due date (not counting extensions) for filing your 2025 tax return. This is April 15, 2026, for most people.
Sign Your Return
Form 1040 or 1040-SR isn't considered a valid return unless you sign it in accordance with the requirements in these instructions. If you are filing a joint return, your spouse must also sign. If your spouse can't sign the return, see Pub. 501. Be sure to date your return and enter your occupation(s). If you have someone prepare your return, you are still responsible for the correctness of the return. If your return is signed by a representative for you, you must have a power of attorney attached that specifically authorizes the representative to sign your return. To do this, you can use Form 2848. If you are filing a joint return with your spouse who died in 2024, see Death of a Taxpayer, earlier.
Court-Appointed Conservator, Guardian, or Other Fiduciary
If you are a court-appointed conservator, guardian, or other fiduciary for a mentally or physically incompetent individual who has to file Form 1040 or 1040-SR, sign your name for the individual and file Form 56.
Child's Return
If your child can't sign their return, either parent can sign the child's name in the space provided. Then, enter “By (your signature), parent for minor child.”
Requirements for a Paper Return
You must handwrite your signature on your return if you file it on paper. Digital, electronic, or typed-font signatures are not valid signatures for Forms 1040 or 1040-SR filed on paper.
Requirements for an Electronic Return
The requirements for signing an electronic return will be different depending on whether you use tax software or a tax practitioner. If you are filing electronically using Direct File, you should follow the instructions provided to you by Direct File for how to sign your electronic return. Otherwise, to file your return electronically, you must sign the return electronically using a personal identification number (PIN) and provide the information described below. If you are filing online using software, you must use a Self-Select PIN. If you are filing electronically using a tax practitioner, you can use a Self-Select PIN or a Practitioner PIN.
If we issued you an identity protection personal identification number (IP PIN) (as described in more detail next), all six digits of your IP PIN must appear in the IP PIN spaces provided next to the space for your occupation for your electronic signature to be complete. Failure to include an issued IP PIN on the electronic return will result in an invalid signature and a rejected return. If you are filing a joint return and both taxpayers were issued an IP PIN, enter both IP PINs in the spaces provided.
Self-Select PIN.
The Self-Select PIN method allows you to create your own PIN. If you are married filing jointly, you and your spouse will each need to create a PIN and enter these PINs as your electronic signatures.
A PIN is any combination of five digits you choose except five zeros. If you use a PIN, there are no papers to sign and nothing to mail—not even your Form(s) W-2.
Your electronic return signed with a Self-Select PIN is considered a validly signed return only when it includes your PIN, last name, date of birth, IP PIN, if applicable, and your adjusted gross income (AGI) from your originally filed 2023 federal income tax return, if applicable. If you're filing jointly, your electronic return must also include your spouse's PIN, last name, date of birth, IP PIN, if applicable, and AGI, if applicable, in order to be considered validly signed. (You, and your spouse if filing jointly, may each use your own prior-year PIN to verify your identity if you filed electronically last year. If you use your prior-year PIN or enter your IP PIN, you are not required to enter your prior-year AGI. The prior-year PIN is the five-digit PIN you used to electronically sign your 2023 return.)
If you need your AGI from your originally filed 2023 federal income tax return, and you don’t have your 2023 income tax return, you can access your transcript through your online account at IRS.gov/Account. You can also go to IRS.gov/Transcript or call the IRS at 800-908-9946 to get a free transcript of your return. Don’t use your AGI from an amended return (Form 1040-X) or a math error correction made by the IRS. AGI is the amount shown on your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11.
For more information, go to IRS.gov/Efile.
You can't use the Self-Select PIN method if you are a first-time filer under age 16 at the end of 2024.
Practitioner PIN.
The Practitioner PIN method allows you to authorize your tax practitioner to enter or generate your PIN. Your electronic return is considered a validly signed return only when it includes your PIN, last name, date of birth, and IP PIN, if applicable. If you're filing jointly, your electronic return must also include your spouse's PIN, last name, date of birth, and IP PIN, if applicable, in order to be considered validly signed. The practitioner can provide you with details.
Form 8453.
You must send in a paper Form 8453 if you have to attach certain forms or other documents that can't be electronically filed. See Form 8453.
Identity Protection PIN
All taxpayers are now eligible for an Identity Protection Personal Identification Number (IP PIN). For more information, see Pub. 5477. To apply for an IP PIN, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN and use the Get an IP PIN tool.
If you received an IP PIN from the IRS, enter it in the IP PIN spaces provided next to the space for your occupation. You must correctly enter all six numbers of your IP PIN. If you didn't receive an IP PIN, leave these spaces blank.
New IP PINs are generated every year. They will generally be sent out by mid-January 2025. Use this IP PIN on your 2024 return as well as any prior-year returns you file in 2025.
If you are filing a joint return and both taxpayers receive an IP PIN, enter both IP PINs in the spaces provided.
If you need more information, including how to retrieve your IP PIN online, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN. If you’re unable to retrieve your IP PIN online, you can call 800-908-4490.
Phone Number and Email Address
You have the option of entering your phone number and email address in the spaces provided. There will be no effect on the processing of your return if you choose not to enter this information. Note that the IRS initiates most contacts through regular mail delivered by the United States Postal Service.
For information on how to report phone scams or unsolicited emails claiming to be from the IRS, see Secure Your Tax Records From Identity Theft, later.
Paid Preparer Must Sign Your Return
Generally, anyone you pay to prepare your return must sign it and include their Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN) in the space provided. The preparer must give you a copy of the return for your records. Someone who prepares your return but doesn't charge you shouldn’t sign your return.
If your paid preparer is self-employed, then they should check the “self-employed” checkbox.
Assemble Your Return
Assemble any schedules and forms behind Form 1040 or 1040-SR in order of the “Attachment Sequence No.” shown in the upper-right corner of the schedule or form. If you have supporting statements, arrange them in the same order as the schedules or forms they support and attach them last. File your return, schedules, and other attachments on standard size paper. Cutting the paper may cause problems in processing your return. Don’t attach correspondence or other items unless required to do so. Attach Forms W-2 and 2439 to Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you received a Form W-2c (a corrected Form W-2), attach your original Forms W-2 and any Forms W-2c. Attach Forms W-2G and 1099-R to Form 1040 or 1040-SR if tax was withheld.
1040 - Main Contents
Tax Table
2024
Tax Table
See the instructions for line 16 to see if you must use the Tax Table below to figure your tax.
Tax Table Example
Please click here for the text description of the image.
Example. A married couple is filing a joint return. Their taxable income on Form 1040, line 15, is $25,300. First, they find the $25,300-25,350 taxable income line. Next, they find the column for married filing jointly and read down the column. The amount shown where the taxable income line and filing status column meet is $2,575. This is the tax amount they should enter in the entry space on Form 1040, line 16.
If line 15
(taxable
income) is—
And you are—
At
least
But
less
than
Single
Married filing jointly *
* This column must also be used by a qualifying surviving spouse.
Married filing sepa- rately
Head of a house- hold
Your tax is—
0
5
0
0
0
0
5
15
1
1
1
1
15
25
2
2
2
2
25
50
4
4
4
4
50
75
6
6
6
6
75
100
9
9
9
9
100
125
11
11
11
11
125
150
14
14
14
14
150
175
16
16
16
16
175
200
19
19
19
19
200
225
21
21
21
21
225
250
24
24
24
24
250
275
26
26
26
26
275
300
29
29
29
29
300
325
31
31
31
31
325
350
34
34
34
34
350
375
36
36
36
36
375
400
39
39
39
39
400
425
41
41
41
41
425
450
44
44
44
44
450
475
46
46
46
46
475
500
49
49
49
49
500
525
51
51
51
51
525
550
54
54
54
54
550
575
56
56
56
56
575
600
59
59
59
59
600
625
61
61
61
61
625
650
64
64
64
64
650
675
66
66
66
66
675
700
69
69
69
69
700
725
71
71
71
71
725
750
74
74
74
74
750
775
76
76
76
76
775
800
79
79
79
79
800
825
81
81
81
81
825
850
84
84
84
84
850
875
86
86
86
86
875
900
89
89
89
89
900
925
91
91
91
91
925
950
94
94
94
94
950
975
96
96
96
96
975
1,000
99
99
99
99
1,000
1,000
1,025
101
101
101
101
1,025
1,050
104
104
104
104
1,050
1,075
106
106
106
106
1,075
1,100
109
109
109
109
1,100
1,125
111
111
111
111
1,125
1,150
114
114
114
114
1,150
1,175
116
116
116
116
1,175
1,200
119
119
119
119
1,200
1,225
121
121
121
121
1,225
1,250
124
124
124
124
1,250
1,275
126
126
126
126
1,275
1,300
129
129
129
129
1,300
1,325
131
131
131
131
1,325
1,350
134
134
134
134
1,350
1,375
136
136
136
136
1,375
1,400
139
139
139
139
1,400
1,425
141
141
141
141
1,425
1,450
144
144
144
144
1,450
1,475
146
146
146
146
1,475
1,500
149
149
149
149
1,500
1,525
151
151
151
151
1,525
1,550
154
154
154
154
1,550
1,575
156
156
156
156
1,575
1,600
159
159
159
159
1,600
1,625
161
161
161
161
1,625
1,650
164
164
164
164
1,650
1,675
166
166
166
166
1,675
1,700
169
169
169
169
1,700
1,725
171
171
171
171
1,725
1,750
174
174
174
174
1,750
1,775
176
176
176
176
1,775
1,800
179
179
179
179
1,800
1,825
181
181
181
181
1,825
1,850
184
184
184
184
1,850
1,875
186
186
186
186
1,875
1,900
189
189
189
189
1,900
1,925
191
191
191
191
1,925
1,950
194
194
194
194
1,950
1,975
196
196
196
196
1,975
2,000
199
199
199
199
2,000
2,000
2,025
201
201
201
201
2,025
2,050
204
204
204
204
2,050
2,075
206
206
206
206
2,075
2,100
209
209
209
209
2,100
2,125
211
211
211
211
2,125
2,150
214
214
214
214
2,150
2,175
216
216
216
216
2,175
2,200
219
219
219
219
2,200
2,225
221
221
221
221
2,225
2,250
224
224
224
224
2,250
2,275
226
226
226
226
2,275
2,300
229
229
229
229
2,300
2,325
231
231
231
231
2,325
2,350
234
234
234
234
2,350
2,375
236
236
236
236
2,375
2,400
239
239
239
239
2,400
2,425
241
241
241
241
2,425
2,450
244
244
244
244
2,450
2,475
246
246
246
246
2,475
2,500
249
249
249
249
2,500
2,525
251
251
251
251
2,525
2,550
254
254
254
254
2,550
2,575
256
256
256
256
2,575
2,600
259
259
259
259
2,600
2,625
261
261
261
261
2,625
2,650
264
264
264
264
2,650
2,675
266
266
266
266
2,675
2,700
269
269
269
269
2,700
2,725
271
271
271
271
2,725
2,750
274
274
274
274
2,750
2,775
276
276
276
276
2,775
2,800
279
279
279
279
2,800
2,825
281
281
281
281
2,825
2,850
284
284
284
284
2,850
2,875
286
286
286
286
2,875
2,900
289
289
289
289
2,900
2,925
291
291
291
291
2,925
2,950
294
294
294
294
2,950
2,975
296
296
296
296
2,975
3,000
299
299
299
299
3,000
3,000
3,050
303
303
303
303
3,050
3,100
308
308
308
308
3,100
3,150
313
313
313
313
3,150
3,200
318
318
318
318
3,200
3,250
323
323
323
323
3,250
3,300
328
328
328
328
3,300
3,350
333
333
333
333
3,350
3,400
338
338
338
338
3,400
3,450
343
343
343
343
3,450
3,500
348
348
348
348
3,500
3,550
353
353
353
353
3,550
3,600
358
358
358
358
3,600
3,650
363
363
363
363
3,650
3,700
368
368
368
368
3,700
3,750
373
373
373
373
3,750
3,800
378
378
378
378
3,800
3,850
383
383
383
383
3,850
3,900
388
388
388
388
3,900
3,950
393
393
393
393
3,950
4,000
398
398
398
398
4,000
4,000
4,050
403
403
403
403
4,050
4,100
408
408
408
408
4,100
4,150
413
413
413
413
4,150
4,200
418
418
418
418
4,200
4,250
423
423
423
423
4,250
4,300
428
428
428
428
4,300
4,350
433
433
433
433
4,350
4,400
438
438
438
438
4,400
4,450
443
443
443
443
4,450
4,500
448
448
448
448
4,500
4,550
453
453
453
453
4,550
4,600
458
458
458
458
4,600
4,650
463
463
463
463
4,650
4,700
468
468
468
468
4,700
4,750
473
473
473
473
4,750
4,800
478
478
478
478
4,800
4,850
483
483
483
483
4,850
4,900
488
488
488
488
4,900
4,950
493
493
493
493
4,950
5,000
498
498
498
498
5,000
5,000
5,050
503
503
503
503
5,050
5,100
508
508
508
508
5,100
5,150
513
513
513
513
5,150
5,200
518
518
518
518
5,200
5,250
523
523
523
523
5,250
5,300
528
528
528
528
5,300
5,350
533
533
533
533
5,350
5,400
538
538
538
538
5,400
5,450
543
543
543
543
5,450
5,500
548
548
548
548
5,500
5,550
553
553
553
553
5,550
5,600
558
558
558
558
5,600
5,650
563
563
563
563
5,650
5,700
568
568
568
568
5,700
5,750
573
573
573
573
5,750
5,800
578
578
578
578
5,800
5,850
583
583
583
583
5,850
5,900
588
588
588
588
5,900
5,950
593
593
593
593
5,950
6,000
598
598
598
598
6,000
6,000
6,050
603
603
603
603
6,050
6,100
608
608
608
608
6,100
6,150
613
613
613
613
6,150
6,200
618
618
618
618
6,200
6,250
623
623
623
623
6,250
6,300
628
628
628
628
6,300
6,350
633
633
633
633
6,350
6,400
638
638
638
638
6,400
6,450
643
643
643
643
6,450
6,500
648
648
648
648
6,500
6,550
653
653
653
653
6,550
6,600
658
658
658
658
6,600
6,650
663
663
663
663
6,650
6,700
668
668
668
668
6,700
6,750
673
673
673
673
6,750
6,800
678
678
678
678
6,800
6,850
683
683
683
683
6,850
6,900
688
688
688
688
6,900
6,950
693
693
693
693
6,950
7,000
698
698
698
698
7,000
7,000
7,050
703
703
703
703
7,050
7,100
708
708
708
708
7,100
7,150
713
713
713
713
7,150
7,200
718
718
718
718
7,200
7,250
723
723
723
723
7,250
7,300
728
728
728
728
7,300
7,350
733
733
733
733
7,350
7,400
738
738
738
738
7,400
7,450
743
743
743
743
7,450
7,500
748
748
748
748
7,500
7,550
753
753
753
753
7,550
7,600
758
758
758
758
7,600
7,650
763
763
763
763
7,650
7,700
768
768
768
768
7,700
7,750
773
773
773
773
7,750
7,800
778
778
778
778
7,800
7,850
783
783
783
783
7,850
7,900
788
788
788
788
7,900
7,950
793
793
793
793
7,950
8,000
798
798
798
798
8,000
8,000
8,050
803
803
803
803
8,050
8,100
808
808
808
808
8,100
8,150
813
813
813
813
8,150
8,200
818
818
818
818
8,200
8,250
823
823
823
823
8,250
8,300
828
828
828
828
8,300
8,350
833
833
833
833
8,350
8,400
838
838
838
838
8,400
8,450
843
843
843
843
8,450
8,500
848
848
848
848
8,500
8,550
853
853
853
853
8,550
8,600
858
858
858
858
8,600
8,650
863
863
863
863
8,650
8,700
868
868
868
868
8,700
8,750
873
873
873
873
8,750
8,800
878
878
878
878
8,800
8,850
883
883
883
883
8,850
8,900
888
888
888
888
8,900
8,950
893
893
893
893
8,950
9,000
898
898
898
898
9,000
9,000
9,050
903
903
903
903
9,050
9,100
908
908
908
908
9,100
9,150
913
913
913
913
9,150
9,200
918
918
918
918
9,200
9,250
923
923
923
923
9,250
9,300
928
928
928
928
9,300
9,350
933
933
933
933
9,350
9,400
938
938
938
938
9,400
9,450
943
943
943
943
9,450
9,500
948
948
948
948
9,500
9,550
953
953
953
953
9,550
9,600
958
958
958
958
9,600
9,650
963
963
963
963
9,650
9,700
968
968
968
968
9,700
9,750
973
973
973
973
9,750
9,800
978
978
978
978
9,800
9,850
983
983
983
983
9,850
9,900
988
988
988
988
9,900
9,950
993
993
993
993
9,950
10,000
998
998
998
998
10,000
10,000
10,050
1,003
1,003
1,003
1,003
10,050
10,100
1,008
1,008
1,008
1,008
10,100
10,150
1,013
1,013
1,013
1,013
10,150
10,200
1,018
1,018
1,018
1,018
10,200
10,250
1,023
1,023
1,023
1,023
10,250
10,300
1,028
1,028
1,028
1,028
10,300
10,350
1,033
1,033
1,033
1,033
10,350
10,400
1,038
1,038
1,038
1,038
10,400
10,450
1,043
1,043
1,043
1,043
10,450
10,500
1,048
1,048
1,048
1,048
10,500
10,550
1,053
1,053
1,053
1,053
10,550
10,600
1,058
1,058
1,058
1,058
10,600
10,650
1,063
1,063
1,063
1,063
10,650
10,700
1,068
1,068
1,068
1,068
10,700
10,750
1,073
1,073
1,073
1,073
10,750
10,800
1,078
1,078
1,078
1,078
10,800
10,850
1,083
1,083
1,083
1,083
10,850
10,900
1,088
1,088
1,088
1,088
10,900
10,950
1,093
1,093
1,093
1,093
10,950
11,000
1,098
1,098
1,098
1,098
11,000
11,000
11,050
1,103
1,103
1,103
1,103
11,050
11,100
1,108
1,108
1,108
1,108
11,100
11,150
1,113
1,113
1,113
1,113
11,150
11,200
1,118
1,118
1,118
1,118
11,200
11,250
1,123
1,123
1,123
1,123
11,250
11,300
1,128
1,128
1,128
1,128
11,300
11,350
1,133
1,133
1,133
1,133
11,350
11,400
1,138
1,138
1,138
1,138
11,400
11,450
1,143
1,143
1,143
1,143
11,450
11,500
1,148
1,148
1,148
1,148
11,500
11,550
1,153
1,153
1,153
1,153
11,550
11,600
1,158
1,158
1,158
1,158
11,600
11,650
1,163
1,163
1,163
1,163
11,650
11,700
1,169
1,168
1,169
1,168
11,700
11,750
1,175
1,173
1,175
1,173
11,750
11,800
1,181
1,178
1,181
1,178
11,800
11,850
1,187
1,183
1,187
1,183
11,850
11,900
1,193
1,188
1,193
1,188
11,900
11,950
1,199
1,193
1,199
1,193
11,950
12,000
1,205
1,198
1,205
1,198
12,000
12,000
12,050
1,211
1,203
1,211
1,203
12,050
12,100
1,217
1,208
1,217
1,208
12,100
12,150
1,223
1,213
1,223
1,213
12,150
12,200
1,229
1,218
1,229
1,218
12,200
12,250
1,235
1,223
1,235
1,223
12,250
12,300
1,241
1,228
1,241
1,228
12,300
12,350
1,247
1,233
1,247
1,233
12,350
12,400
1,253
1,238
1,253
1,238
12,400
12,450
1,259
1,243
1,259
1,243
12,450
12,500
1,265
1,248
1,265
1,248
12,500
12,550
1,271
1,253
1,271
1,253
12,550
12,600
1,277
1,258
1,277
1,258
12,600
12,650
1,283
1,263
1,283
1,263
12,650
12,700
1,289
1,268
1,289
1,268
12,700
12,750
1,295
1,273
1,295
1,273
12,750
12,800
1,301
1,278
1,301
1,278
12,800
12,850
1,307
1,283
1,307
1,283
12,850
12,900
1,313
1,288
1,313
1,288
12,900
12,950
1,319
1,293
1,319
1,293
12,950
13,000
1,325
1,298
1,325
1,298
13,000
13,000
13,050
1,331
1,303
1,331
1,303
13,050
13,100
1,337
1,308
1,337
1,308
13,100
13,150
1,343
1,313
1,343
1,313
13,150
13,200
1,349
1,318
1,349
1,318
13,200
13,250
1,355
1,323
1,355
1,323
13,250
13,300
1,361
1,328
1,361
1,328
13,300
13,350
1,367
1,333
1,367
1,333
13,350
13,400
1,373
1,338
1,373
1,338
13,400
13,450
1,379
1,343
1,379
1,343
13,450
13,500
1,385
1,348
1,385
1,348
13,500
13,550
1,391
1,353
1,391
1,353
13,550
13,600
1,397
1,358
1,397
1,358
13,600
13,650
1,403
1,363
1,403
1,363
13,650
13,700
1,409
1,368
1,409
1,368
13,700
13,750
1,415
1,373
1,415
1,373
13,750
13,800
1,421
1,378
1,421
1,378
13,800
13,850
1,427
1,383
1,427
1,383
13,850
13,900
1,433
1,388
1,433
1,388
13,900
13,950
1,439
1,393
1,439
1,393
13,950
14,000
1,445
1,398
1,445
1,398
14,000
14,000
14,050
1,451
1,403
1,451
1,403
14,050
14,100
1,457
1,408
1,457
1,408
14,100
14,150
1,463
1,413
1,463
1,413
14,150
14,200
1,469
1,418
1,469
1,418
14,200
14,250
1,475
1,423
1,475
1,423
14,250
14,300
1,481
1,428
1,481
1,428
14,300
14,350
1,487
1,433
1,487
1,433
14,350
14,400
1,493
1,438
1,493
1,438
14,400
14,450
1,499
1,443
1,499
1,443
14,450
14,500
1,505
1,448
1,505
1,448
14,500
14,550
1,511
1,453
1,511
1,453
14,550
14,600
1,517
1,458
1,517
1,458
14,600
14,650
1,523
1,463
1,523
1,463
14,650
14,700
1,529
1,468
1,529
1,468
14,700
14,750
1,535
1,473
1,535
1,473
14,750
14,800
1,541
1,478
1,541
1,478
14,800
14,850
1,547
1,483
1,547
1,483
14,850
14,900
1,553
1,488
1,553
1,488
14,900
14,950
1,559
1,493
1,559
1,493
14,950
15,000
1,565
1,498
1,565
1,498
15,000
15,000
15,050
1,571
1,503
1,571
1,503
15,050
15,100
1,577
1,508
1,577
1,508
15,100
15,150
1,583
1,513
1,583
1,513
15,150
15,200
1,589
1,518
1,589
1,518
15,200
15,250
1,595
1,523
1,595
1,523
15,250
15,300
1,601
1,528
1,601
1,528
15,300
15,350
1,607
1,533
1,607
1,533
15,350
15,400
1,613
1,538
1,613
1,538
15,400
15,450
1,619
1,543
1,619
1,543
15,450
15,500
1,625
1,548
1,625
1,548
15,500
15,550
1,631
1,553
1,631
1,553
15,550
15,600
1,637
1,558
1,637
1,558
15,600
15,650
1,643
1,563
1,643
1,563
15,650
15,700
1,649
1,568
1,649
1,568
15,700
15,750
1,655
1,573
1,655
1,573
15,750
15,800
1,661
1,578
1,661
1,578
15,800
15,850
1,667
1,583
1,667
1,583
15,850
15,900
1,673
1,588
1,673
1,588
15,900
15,950
1,679
1,593
1,679
1,593
15,950
16,000
1,685
1,598
1,685
1,598
16,000
16,000
16,050
1,691
1,603
1,691
1,603
16,050
16,100
1,697
1,608
1,697
1,608
16,100
16,150
1,703
1,613
1,703
1,613
16,150
16,200
1,709
1,618
1,709
1,618
16,200
16,250
1,715
1,623
1,715
1,623
16,250
16,300
1,721
1,628
1,721
1,628
16,300
16,350
1,727
1,633
1,727
1,633
16,350
16,400
1,733
1,638
1,733
1,638
16,400
16,450
1,739
1,643
1,739
1,643
16,450
16,500
1,745
1,648
1,745
1,648
16,500
16,550
1,751
1,653
1,751
1,653
16,550
16,600
1,757
1,658
1,757
1,658
16,600
16,650
1,763
1,663
1,763
1,664
16,650
16,700
1,769
1,668
1,769
1,670
16,700
16,750
1,775
1,673
1,775
1,676
16,750
16,800
1,781
1,678
1,781
1,682
16,800
16,850
1,787
1,683
1,787
1,688
16,850
16,900
1,793
1,688
1,793
1,694
16,900
16,950
1,799
1,693
1,799
1,700
16,950
17,000
1,805
1,698
1,805
1,706
17,000
17,000
17,050
1,811
1,703
1,811
1,712
17,050
17,100
1,817
1,708
1,817
1,718
17,100
17,150
1,823
1,713
1,823
1,724
17,150
17,200
1,829
1,718
1,829
1,730
17,200
17,250
1,835
1,723
1,835
1,736
17,250
17,300
1,841
1,728
1,841
1,742
17,300
17,350
1,847
1,733
1,847
1,748
17,350
17,400
1,853
1,738
1,853
1,754
17,400
17,450
1,859
1,743
1,859
1,760
17,450
17,500
1,865
1,748
1,865
1,766
17,500
17,550
1,871
1,753
1,871
1,772
17,550
17,600
1,877
1,758
1,877
1,778
17,600
17,650
1,883
1,763
1,883
1,784
17,650
17,700
1,889
1,768
1,889
1,790
17,700
17,750
1,895
1,773
1,895
1,796
17,750
17,800
1,901
1,778
1,901
1,802
17,800
17,850
1,907
1,783
1,907
1,808
17,850
17,900
1,913
1,788
1,913
1,814
17,900
17,950
1,919
1,793
1,919
1,820
17,950
18,000
1,925
1,798
1,925
1,826
18,000
18,000
18,050
1,931
1,803
1,931
1,832
18,050
18,100
1,937
1,808
1,937
1,838
18,100
18,150
1,943
1,813
1,943
1,844
18,150
18,200
1,949
1,818
1,949
1,850
18,200
18,250
1,955
1,823
1,955
1,856
18,250
18,300
1,961
1,828
1,961
1,862
18,300
18,350
1,967
1,833
1,967
1,868
18,350
18,400
1,973
1,838
1,973
1,874
18,400
18,450
1,979
1,843
1,979
1,880
18,450
18,500
1,985
1,848
1,985
1,886
18,500
18,550
1,991
1,853
1,991
1,892
18,550
18,600
1,997
1,858
1,997
1,898
18,600
18,650
2,003
1,863
2,003
1,904
18,650
18,700
2,009
1,868
2,009
1,910
18,700
18,750
2,015
1,873
2,015
1,916
18,750
18,800
2,021
1,878
2,021
1,922
18,800
18,850
2,027
1,883
2,027
1,928
18,850
18,900
2,033
1,888
2,033
1,934
18,900
18,950
2,039
1,893
2,039
1,940
18,950
19,000
2,045
1,898
2,045
1,946
19,000
19,000
19,050
2,051
1,903
2,051
1,952
19,050
19,100
2,057
1,908
2,057
1,958
19,100
19,150
2,063
1,913
2,063
1,964
19,150
19,200
2,069
1,918
2,069
1,970
19,200
19,250
2,075
1,923
2,075
1,976
19,250
19,300
2,081
1,928
2,081
1,982
19,300
19,350
2,087
1,933
2,087
1,988
19,350
19,400
2,093
1,938
2,093
1,994
19,400
19,450
2,099
1,943
2,099
2,000
19,450
19,500
2,105
1,948
2,105
2,006
19,500
19,550
2,111
1,953
2,111
2,012
19,550
19,600
2,117
1,958
2,117
2,018
19,600
19,650
2,123
1,963
2,123
2,024
19,650
19,700
2,129
1,968
2,129
2,030
19,700
19,750
2,135
1,973
2,135
2,036
19,750
19,800
2,141
1,978
2,141
2,042
19,800
19,850
2,147
1,983
2,147
2,048
19,850
19,900
2,153
1,988
2,153
2,054
19,900
19,950
2,159
1,993
2,159
2,060
19,950
20,000
2,165
1,998
2,165
2,066
20,000
20,000
20,050
2,171
2,003
2,171
2,072
20,050
20,100
2,177
2,008
2,177
2,078
20,100
20,150
2,183
2,013
2,183
2,084
20,150
20,200
2,189
2,018
2,189
2,090
20,200
20,250
2,195
2,023
2,195
2,096
20,250
20,300
2,201
2,028
2,201
2,102
20,300
20,350
2,207
2,033
2,207
2,108
20,350
20,400
2,213
2,038
2,213
2,114
20,400
20,450
2,219
2,043
2,219
2,120
20,450
20,500
2,225
2,048
2,225
2,126
20,500
20,550
2,231
2,053
2,231
2,132
20,550
20,600
2,237
2,058
2,237
2,138
20,600
20,650
2,243
2,063
2,243
2,144
20,650
20,700
2,249
2,068
2,249
2,150
20,700
20,750
2,255
2,073
2,255
2,156
20,750
20,800
2,261
2,078
2,261
2,162
20,800
20,850
2,267
2,083
2,267
2,168
20,850
20,900
2,273
2,088
2,273
2,174
20,900
20,950
2,279
2,093
2,279
2,180
20,950
21,000
2,285
2,098
2,285
2,186
21,000
21,000
21,050
2,291
2,103
2,291
2,192
21,050
21,100
2,297
2,108
2,297
2,198
21,100
21,150
2,303
2,113
2,303
2,204
21,150
21,200
2,309
2,118
2,309
2,210
21,200
21,250
2,315
2,123
2,315
2,216
21,250
21,300
2,321
2,128
2,321
2,222
21,300
21,350
2,327
2,133
2,327
2,228
21,350
21,400
2,333
2,138
2,333
2,234
21,400
21,450
2,339
2,143
2,339
2,240
21,450
21,500
2,345
2,148
2,345
2,246
21,500
21,550
2,351
2,153
2,351
2,252
21,550
21,600
2,357
2,158
2,357
2,258
21,600
21,650
2,363
2,163
2,363
2,264
21,650
21,700
2,369
2,168
2,369
2,270
21,700
21,750
2,375
2,173
2,375
2,276
21,750
21,800
2,381
2,178
2,381
2,282
21,800
21,850
2,387
2,183
2,387
2,288
21,850
21,900
2,393
2,188
2,393
2,294
21,900
21,950
2,399
2,193
2,399
2,300
21,950
22,000
2,405
2,198
2,405
2,306
22,000
22,000
22,050
2,411
2,203
2,411
2,312
22,050
22,100
2,417
2,208
2,417
2,318
22,100
22,150
2,423
2,213
2,423
2,324
22,150
22,200
2,429
2,218
2,429
2,330
22,200
22,250
2,435
2,223
2,435
2,336
22,250
22,300
2,441
2,228
2,441
2,342
22,300
22,350
2,447
2,233
2,447
2,348
22,350
22,400
2,453
2,238
2,453
2,354
22,400
22,450
2,459
2,243
2,459
2,360
22,450
22,500
2,465
2,248
2,465
2,366
22,500
22,550
2,471
2,253
2,471
2,372
22,550
22,600
2,477
2,258
2,477
2,378
22,600
22,650
2,483
2,263
2,483
2,384
22,650
22,700
2,489
2,268
2,489
2,390
22,700
22,750
2,495
2,273
2,495
2,396
22,750
22,800
2,501
2,278
2,501
2,402
22,800
22,850
2,507
2,283
2,507
2,408
22,850
22,900
2,513
2,288
2,513
2,414
22,900
22,950
2,519
2,293
2,519
2,420
22,950
23,000
2,525
2,298
2,525
2,426
23,000
23,000
23,050
2,531
2,303
2,531
2,432
23,050
23,100
2,537
2,308
2,537
2,438
23,100
23,150
2,543
2,313
2,543
2,444
23,150
23,200
2,549
2,318
2,549
2,450
23,200
23,250
2,555
2,323
2,555
2,456
23,250
23,300
2,561
2,329
2,561
2,462
23,300
23,350
2,567
2,335
2,567
2,468
23,350
23,400
2,573
2,341
2,573
2,474
23,400
23,450
2,579
2,347
2,579
2,480
23,450
23,500
2,585
2,353
2,585
2,486
23,500
23,550
2,591
2,359
2,591
2,492
23,550
23,600
2,597
2,365
2,597
2,498
23,600
23,650
2,603
2,371
2,603
2,504
23,650
23,700
2,609
2,377
2,609
2,510
23,700
23,750
2,615
2,383
2,615
2,516
23,750
23,800
2,621
2,389
2,621
2,522
23,800
23,850
2,627
2,395
2,627
2,528
23,850
23,900
2,633
2,401
2,633
2,534
23,900
23,950
2,639
2,407
2,639
2,540
23,950
24,000
2,645
2,413
2,645
2,546
24,000
24,000
24,050
2,651
2,419
2,651
2,552
24,050
24,100
2,657
2,425
2,657
2,558
24,100
24,150
2,663
2,431
2,663
2,564
24,150
24,200
2,669
2,437
2,669
2,570
24,200
24,250
2,675
2,443
2,675
2,576
24,250
24,300
2,681
2,449
2,681
2,582
24,300
24,350
2,687
2,455
2,687
2,588
24,350
24,400
2,693
2,461
2,693
2,594
24,400
24,450
2,699
2,467
2,699
2,600
24,450
24,500
2,705
2,473
2,705
2,606
24,500
24,550
2,711
2,479
2,711
2,612
24,550
24,600
2,717
2,485
2,717
2,618
24,600
24,650
2,723
2,491
2,723
2,624
24,650
24,700
2,729
2,497
2,729
2,630
24,700
24,750
2,735
2,503
2,735
2,636
24,750
24,800
2,741
2,509
2,741
2,642
24,800
24,850
2,747
2,515
2,747
2,648
24,850
24,900
2,753
2,521
2,753
2,654
24,900
24,950
2,759
2,527
2,759
2,660
24,950
25,000
2,765
2,533
2,765
2,666
25,000
25,000
25,050
2,771
2,539
2,771
2,672
25,050
25,100
2,777
2,545
2,777
2,678
25,100
25,150
2,783
2,551
2,783
2,684
25,150
25,200
2,789
2,557
2,789
2,690
25,200
25,250
2,795
2,563
2,795
2,696
25,250
25,300
2,801
2,569
2,801
2,702
25,300
25,350
2,807
2,575
2,807
2,708
25,350
25,400
2,813
2,581
2,813
2,714
25,400
25,450
2,819
2,587
2,819
2,720
25,450
25,500
2,825
2,593
2,825
2,726
25,500
25,550
2,831
2,599
2,831
2,732
25,550
25,600
2,837
2,605
2,837
2,738
25,600
25,650
2,843
2,611
2,843
2,744
25,650
25,700
2,849
2,617
2,849
2,750
25,700
25,750
2,855
2,623
2,855
2,756
25,750
25,800
2,861
2,629
2,861
2,762
25,800
25,850
2,867
2,635
2,867
2,768
25,850
25,900
2,873
2,641
2,873
2,774
25,900
25,950
2,879
2,647
2,879
2,780
25,950
26,000
2,885
2,653
2,885
2,786
26,000
26,000
26,050
2,891
2,659
2,891
2,792
26,050
26,100
2,897
2,665
2,897
2,798
26,100
26,150
2,903
2,671
2,903
2,804
26,150
26,200
2,909
2,677
2,909
2,810
26,200
26,250
2,915
2,683
2,915
2,816
26,250
26,300
2,921
2,689
2,921
2,822
26,300
26,350
2,927
2,695
2,927
2,828
26,350
26,400
2,933
2,701
2,933
2,834
26,400
26,450
2,939
2,707
2,939
2,840
26,450
26,500
2,945
2,713
2,945
2,846
26,500
26,550
2,951
2,719
2,951
2,852
26,550
26,600
2,957
2,725
2,957
2,858
26,600
26,650
2,963
2,731
2,963
2,864
26,650
26,700
2,969
2,737
2,969
2,870
26,700
26,750
2,975
2,743
2,975
2,876
26,750
26,800
2,981
2,749
2,981
2,882
26,800
26,850
2,987
2,755
2,987
2,888
26,850
26,900
2,993
2,761
2,993
2,894
26,900
26,950
2,999
2,767
2,999
2,900
26,950
27,000
3,005
2,773
3,005
2,906
27,000
27,000
27,050
3,011
2,779
3,011
2,912
27,050
27,100
3,017
2,785
3,017
2,918
27,100
27,150
3,023
2,791
3,023
2,924
27,150
27,200
3,029
2,797
3,029
2,930
27,200
27,250
3,035
2,803
3,035
2,936
27,250
27,300
3,041
2,809
3,041
2,942
27,300
27,350
3,047
2,815
3,047
2,948
27,350
27,400
3,053
2,821
3,053
2,954
27,400
27,450
3,059
2,827
3,059
2,960
27,450
27,500
3,065
2,833
3,065
2,966
27,500
27,550
3,071
2,839
3,071
2,972
27,550
27,600
3,077
2,845
3,077
2,978
27,600
27,650
3,083
2,851
3,083
2,984
27,650
27,700
3,089
2,857
3,089
2,990
27,700
27,750
3,095
2,863
3,095
2,996
27,750
27,800
3,101
2,869
3,101
3,002
27,800
27,850
3,107
2,875
3,107
3,008
27,850
27,900
3,113
2,881
3,113
3,014
27,900
27,950
3,119
2,887
3,119
3,020
27,950
28,000
3,125
2,893
3,125
3,026
28,000
28,000
28,050
3,131
2,899
3,131
3,032
28,050
28,100
3,137
2,905
3,137
3,038
28,100
28,150
3,143
2,911
3,143
3,044
28,150
28,200
3,149
2,917
3,149
3,050
28,200
28,250
3,155
2,923
3,155
3,056
28,250
28,300
3,161
2,929
3,161
3,062
28,300
28,350
3,167
2,935
3,167
3,068
28,350
28,400
3,173
2,941
3,173
3,074
28,400
28,450
3,179
2,947
3,179
3,080
28,450
28,500
3,185
2,953
3,185
3,086
28,500
28,550
3,191
2,959
3,191
3,092
28,550
28,600
3,197
2,965
3,197
3,098
28,600
28,650
3,203
2,971
3,203
3,104
28,650
28,700
3,209
2,977
3,209
3,110
28,700
28,750
3,215
2,983
3,215
3,116
28,750
28,800
3,221
2,989
3,221
3,122
28,800
28,850
3,227
2,995
3,227
3,128
28,850
28,900
3,233
3,001
3,233
3,134
28,900
28,950
3,239
3,007
3,239
3,140
28,950
29,000
3,245
3,013
3,245
3,146
29,000
29,000
29,050
3,251
3,019
3,251
3,152
29,050
29,100
3,257
3,025
3,257
3,158
29,100
29,150
3,263
3,031
3,263
3,164
29,150
29,200
3,269
3,037
3,269
3,170
29,200
29,250
3,275
3,043
3,275
3,176
29,250
29,300
3,281
3,049
3,281
3,182
29,300
29,350
3,287
3,055
3,287
3,188
29,350
29,400
3,293
3,061
3,293
3,194
29,400
29,450
3,299
3,067
3,299
3,200
29,450
29,500
3,305
3,073
3,305
3,206
29,500
29,550
3,311
3,079
3,311
3,212
29,550
29,600
3,317
3,085
3,317
3,218
29,600
29,650
3,323
3,091
3,323
3,224
29,650
29,700
3,329
3,097
3,329
3,230
29,700
29,750
3,335
3,103
3,335
3,236
29,750
29,800
3,341
3,109
3,341
3,242
29,800
29,850
3,347
3,115
3,347
3,248
29,850
29,900
3,353
3,121
3,353
3,254
29,900
29,950
3,359
3,127
3,359
3,260
29,950
30,000
3,365
3,133
3,365
3,266
30,000
30,000
30,050
3,371
3,139
3,371
3,272
30,050
30,100
3,377
3,145
3,377
3,278
30,100
30,150
3,383
3,151
3,383
3,284
30,150
30,200
3,389
3,157
3,389
3,290
30,200
30,250
3,395
3,163
3,395
3,296
30,250
30,300
3,401
3,169
3,401
3,302
30,300
30,350
3,407
3,175
3,407
3,308
30,350
30,400
3,413
3,181
3,413
3,314
30,400
30,450
3,419
3,187
3,419
3,320
30,450
30,500
3,425
3,193
3,425
3,326
30,500
30,550
3,431
3,199
3,431
3,332
30,550
30,600
3,437
3,205
3,437
3,338
30,600
30,650
3,443
3,211
3,443
3,344
30,650
30,700
3,449
3,217
3,449
3,350
30,700
30,750
3,455
3,223
3,455
3,356
30,750
30,800
3,461
3,229
3,461
3,362
30,800
30,850
3,467
3,235
3,467
3,368
30,850
30,900
3,473
3,241
3,473
3,374
30,900
30,950
3,479
3,247
3,479
3,380
30,950
31,000
3,485
3,253
3,485
3,386
31,000
31,000
31,050
3,491
3,259
3,491
3,392
31,050
31,100
3,497
3,265
3,497
3,398
31,100
31,150
3,503
3,271
3,503
3,404
31,150
31,200
3,509
3,277
3,509
3,410
31,200
31,250
3,515
3,283
3,515
3,416
31,250
31,300
3,521
3,289
3,521
3,422
31,300
31,350
3,527
3,295
3,527
3,428
31,350
31,400
3,533
3,301
3,533
3,434
31,400
31,450
3,539
3,307
3,539
3,440
31,450
31,500
3,545
3,313
3,545
3,446
31,500
31,550
3,551
3,319
3,551
3,452
31,550
31,600
3,557
3,325
3,557
3,458
31,600
31,650
3,563
3,331
3,563
3,464
31,650
31,700
3,569
3,337
3,569
3,470
31,700
31,750
3,575
3,343
3,575
3,476
31,750
31,800
3,581
3,349
3,581
3,482
31,800
31,850
3,587
3,355
3,587
3,488
31,850
31,900
3,593
3,361
3,593
3,494
31,900
31,950
3,599
3,367
3,599
3,500
31,950
32,000
3,605
3,373
3,605
3,506
32,000
32,000
32,050
3,611
3,379
3,611
3,512
32,050
32,100
3,617
3,385
3,617
3,518
32,100
32,150
3,623
3,391
3,623
3,524
32,150
32,200
3,629
3,397
3,629
3,530
32,200
32,250
3,635
3,403
3,635
3,536
32,250
32,300
3,641
3,409
3,641
3,542
32,300
32,350
3,647
3,415
3,647
3,548
32,350
32,400
3,653
3,421
3,653
3,554
32,400
32,450
3,659
3,427
3,659
3,560
32,450
32,500
3,665
3,433
3,665
3,566
32,500
32,550
3,671
3,439
3,671
3,572
32,550
32,600
3,677
3,445
3,677
3,578
32,600
32,650
3,683
3,451
3,683
3,584
32,650
32,700
3,689
3,457
3,689
3,590
32,700
32,750
3,695
3,463
3,695
3,596
32,750
32,800
3,701
3,469
3,701
3,602
32,800
32,850
3,707
3,475
3,707
3,608
32,850
32,900
3,713
3,481
3,713
3,614
32,900
32,950
3,719
3,487
3,719
3,620
32,950
33,000
3,725
3,493
3,725
3,626
33,000
33,000
33,050
3,731
3,499
3,731
3,632
33,050
33,100
3,737
3,505
3,737
3,638
33,100
33,150
3,743
3,511
3,743
3,644
33,150
33,200
3,749
3,517
3,749
3,650
33,200
33,250
3,755
3,523
3,755
3,656
33,250
33,300
3,761
3,529
3,761
3,662
33,300
33,350
3,767
3,535
3,767
3,668
33,350
33,400
3,773
3,541
3,773
3,674
33,400
33,450
3,779
3,547
3,779
3,680
33,450
33,500
3,785
3,553
3,785
3,686
33,500
33,550
3,791
3,559
3,791
3,692
33,550
33,600
3,797
3,565
3,797
3,698
33,600
33,650
3,803
3,571
3,803
3,704
33,650
33,700
3,809
3,577
3,809
3,710
33,700
33,750
3,815
3,583
3,815
3,716
33,750
33,800
3,821
3,589
3,821
3,722
33,800
33,850
3,827
3,595
3,827
3,728
33,850
33,900
3,833
3,601
3,833
3,734
33,900
33,950
3,839
3,607
3,839
3,740
33,950
34,000
3,845
3,613
3,845
3,746
34,000
34,000
34,050
3,851
3,619
3,851
3,752
34,050
34,100
3,857
3,625
3,857
3,758
34,100
34,150
3,863
3,631
3,863
3,764
34,150
34,200
3,869
3,637
3,869
3,770
34,200
34,250
3,875
3,643
3,875
3,776
34,250
34,300
3,881
3,649
3,881
3,782
34,300
34,350
3,887
3,655
3,887
3,788
34,350
34,400
3,893
3,661
3,893
3,794
34,400
34,450
3,899
3,667
3,899
3,800
34,450
34,500
3,905
3,673
3,905
3,806
34,500
34,550
3,911
3,679
3,911
3,812
34,550
34,600
3,917
3,685
3,917
3,818
34,600
34,650
3,923
3,691
3,923
3,824
34,650
34,700
3,929
3,697
3,929
3,830
34,700
34,750
3,935
3,703
3,935
3,836
34,750
34,800
3,941
3,709
3,941
3,842
34,800
34,850
3,947
3,715
3,947
3,848
34,850
34,900
3,953
3,721
3,953
3,854
34,900
34,950
3,959
3,727
3,959
3,860
34,950
35,000
3,965
3,733
3,965
3,866
35,000
35,000
35,050
3,971
3,739
3,971
3,872
35,050
35,100
3,977
3,745
3,977
3,878
35,100
35,150
3,983
3,751
3,983
3,884
35,150
35,200
3,989
3,757
3,989
3,890
35,200
35,250
3,995
3,763
3,995
3,896
35,250
35,300
4,001
3,769
4,001
3,902
35,300
35,350
4,007
3,775
4,007
3,908
35,350
35,400
4,013
3,781
4,013
3,914
35,400
35,450
4,019
3,787
4,019
3,920
35,450
35,500
4,025
3,793
4,025
3,926
35,500
35,550
4,031
3,799
4,031
3,932
35,550
35,600
4,037
3,805
4,037
3,938
35,600
35,650
4,043
3,811
4,043
3,944
35,650
35,700
4,049
3,817
4,049
3,950
35,700
35,750
4,055
3,823
4,055
3,956
35,750
35,800
4,061
3,829
4,061
3,962
35,800
35,850
4,067
3,835
4,067
3,968
35,850
35,900
4,073
3,841
4,073
3,974
35,900
35,950
4,079
3,847
4,079
3,980
35,950
36,000
4,085
3,853
4,085
3,986
36,000
36,000
36,050
4,091
3,859
4,091
3,992
36,050
36,100
4,097
3,865
4,097
3,998
36,100
36,150
4,103
3,871
4,103
4,004
36,150
36,200
4,109
3,877
4,109
4,010
36,200
36,250
4,115
3,883
4,115
4,016
36,250
36,300
4,121
3,889
4,121
4,022
36,300
36,350
4,127
3,895
4,127
4,028
36,350
36,400
4,133
3,901
4,133
4,034
36,400
36,450
4,139
3,907
4,139
4,040
36,450
36,500
4,145
3,913
4,145
4,046
36,500
36,550
4,151
3,919
4,151
4,052
36,550
36,600
4,157
3,925
4,157
4,058
36,600
36,650
4,163
3,931
4,163
4,064
36,650
36,700
4,169
3,937
4,169
4,070
36,700
36,750
4,175
3,943
4,175
4,076
36,750
36,800
4,181
3,949
4,181
4,082
36,800
36,850
4,187
3,955
4,187
4,088
36,850
36,900
4,193
3,961
4,193
4,094
36,900
36,950
4,199
3,967
4,199
4,100
36,950
37,000
4,205
3,973
4,205
4,106
37,000
37,000
37,050
4,211
3,979
4,211
4,112
37,050
37,100
4,217
3,985
4,217
4,118
37,100
37,150
4,223
3,991
4,223
4,124
37,150
37,200
4,229
3,997
4,229
4,130
37,200
37,250
4,235
4,003
4,235
4,136
37,250
37,300
4,241
4,009
4,241
4,142
37,300
37,350
4,247
4,015
4,247
4,148
37,350
37,400
4,253
4,021
4,253
4,154
37,400
37,450
4,259
4,027
4,259
4,160
37,450
37,500
4,265
4,033
4,265
4,166
37,500
37,550
4,271
4,039
4,271
4,172
37,550
37,600
4,277
4,045
4,277
4,178
37,600
37,650
4,283
4,051
4,283
4,184
37,650
37,700
4,289
4,057
4,289
4,190
37,700
37,750
4,295
4,063
4,295
4,196
37,750
37,800
4,301
4,069
4,301
4,202
37,800
37,850
4,307
4,075
4,307
4,208
37,850
37,900
4,313
4,081
4,313
4,214
37,900
37,950
4,319
4,087
4,319
4,220
37,950
38,000
4,325
4,093
4,325
4,226
38,000
38,000
38,050
4,331
4,099
4,331
4,232
38,050
38,100
4,337
4,105
4,337
4,238
38,100
38,150
4,343
4,111
4,343
4,244
38,150
38,200
4,349
4,117
4,349
4,250
38,200
38,250
4,355
4,123
4,355
4,256
38,250
38,300
4,361
4,129
4,361
4,262
38,300
38,350
4,367
4,135
4,367
4,268
38,350
38,400
4,373
4,141
4,373
4,274
38,400
38,450
4,379
4,147
4,379
4,280
38,450
38,500
4,385
4,153
4,385
4,286
38,500
38,550
4,391
4,159
4,391
4,292
38,550
38,600
4,397
4,165
4,397
4,298
38,600
38,650
4,403
4,171
4,403
4,304
38,650
38,700
4,409
4,177
4,409
4,310
38,700
38,750
4,415
4,183
4,415
4,316
38,750
38,800
4,421
4,189
4,421
4,322
38,800
38,850
4,427
4,195
4,427
4,328
38,850
38,900
4,433
4,201
4,433
4,334
38,900
38,950
4,439
4,207
4,439
4,340
38,950
39,000
4,445
4,213
4,445
4,346
39,000
39,000
39,050
4,451
4,219
4,451
4,352
39,050
39,100
4,457
4,225
4,457
4,358
39,100
39,150
4,463
4,231
4,463
4,364
39,150
39,200
4,469
4,237
4,469
4,370
39,200
39,250
4,475
4,243
4,475
4,376
39,250
39,300
4,481
4,249
4,481
4,382
39,300
39,350
4,487
4,255
4,487
4,388
39,350
39,400
4,493
4,261
4,493
4,394
39,400
39,450
4,499
4,267
4,499
4,400
39,450
39,500
4,505
4,273
4,505
4,406
39,500
39,550
4,511
4,279
4,511
4,412
39,550
39,600
4,517
4,285
4,517
4,418
39,600
39,650
4,523
4,291
4,523
4,424
39,650
39,700
4,529
4,297
4,529
4,430
39,700
39,750
4,535
4,303
4,535
4,436
39,750
39,800
4,541
4,309
4,541
4,442
39,800
39,850
4,547
4,315
4,547
4,448
39,850
39,900
4,553
4,321
4,553
4,454
39,900
39,950
4,559
4,327
4,559
4,460
39,950
40,000
4,565
4,333
4,565
4,466
40,000
40,000
40,050
4,571
4,339
4,571
4,472
40,050
40,100
4,577
4,345
4,577
4,478
40,100
40,150
4,583
4,351
4,583
4,484
40,150
40,200
4,589
4,357
4,589
4,490
40,200
40,250
4,595
4,363
4,595
4,496
40,250
40,300
4,601
4,369
4,601
4,502
40,300
40,350
4,607
4,375
4,607
4,508
40,350
40,400
4,613
4,381
4,613
4,514
40,400
40,450
4,619
4,387
4,619
4,520
40,450
40,500
4,625
4,393
4,625
4,526
40,500
40,550
4,631
4,399
4,631
4,532
40,550
40,600
4,637
4,405
4,637
4,538
40,600
40,650
4,643
4,411
4,643
4,544
40,650
40,700
4,649
4,417
4,649
4,550
40,700
40,750
4,655
4,423
4,655
4,556
40,750
40,800
4,661
4,429
4,661
4,562
40,800
40,850
4,667
4,435
4,667
4,568
40,850
40,900
4,673
4,441
4,673
4,574
40,900
40,950
4,679
4,447
4,679
4,580
40,950
41,000
4,685
4,453
4,685
4,586
41,000
41,000
41,050
4,691
4,459
4,691
4,592
41,050
41,100
4,697
4,465
4,697
4,598
41,100
41,150
4,703
4,471
4,703
4,604
41,150
41,200
4,709
4,477
4,709
4,610
41,200
41,250
4,715
4,483
4,715
4,616
41,250
41,300
4,721
4,489
4,721
4,622
41,300
41,350
4,727
4,495
4,727
4,628
41,350
41,400
4,733
4,501
4,733
4,634
41,400
41,450
4,739
4,507
4,739
4,640
41,450
41,500
4,745
4,513
4,745
4,646
41,500
41,550
4,751
4,519
4,751
4,652
41,550
41,600
4,757
4,525
4,757
4,658
41,600
41,650
4,763
4,531
4,763
4,664
41,650
41,700
4,769
4,537
4,769
4,670
41,700
41,750
4,775
4,543
4,775
4,676
41,750
41,800
4,781
4,549
4,781
4,682
41,800
41,850
4,787
4,555
4,787
4,688
41,850
41,900
4,793
4,561
4,793
4,694
41,900
41,950
4,799
4,567
4,799
4,700
41,950
42,000
4,805
4,573
4,805
4,706
42,000
42,000
42,050
4,811
4,579
4,811
4,712
42,050
42,100
4,817
4,585
4,817
4,718
42,100
42,150
4,823
4,591
4,823
4,724
42,150
42,200
4,829
4,597
4,829
4,730
42,200
42,250
4,835
4,603
4,835
4,736
42,250
42,300
4,841
4,609
4,841
4,742
42,300
42,350
4,847
4,615
4,847
4,748
42,350
42,400
4,853
4,621
4,853
4,754
42,400
42,450
4,859
4,627
4,859
4,760
42,450
42,500
4,865
4,633
4,865
4,766
42,500
42,550
4,871
4,639
4,871
4,772
42,550
42,600
4,877
4,645
4,877
4,778
42,600
42,650
4,883
4,651
4,883
4,784
42,650
42,700
4,889
4,657
4,889
4,790
42,700
42,750
4,895
4,663
4,895
4,796
42,750
42,800
4,901
4,669
4,901
4,802
42,800
42,850
4,907
4,675
4,907
4,808
42,850
42,900
4,913
4,681
4,913
4,814
42,900
42,950
4,919
4,687
4,919
4,820
42,950
43,000
4,925
4,693
4,925
4,826
43,000
43,000
43,050
4,931
4,699
4,931
4,832
43,050
43,100
4,937
4,705
4,937
4,838
43,100
43,150
4,943
4,711
4,943
4,844
43,150
43,200
4,949
4,717
4,949
4,850
43,200
43,250
4,955
4,723
4,955
4,856
43,250
43,300
4,961
4,729
4,961
4,862
43,300
43,350
4,967
4,735
4,967
4,868
43,350
43,400
4,973
4,741
4,973
4,874
43,400
43,450
4,979
4,747
4,979
4,880
43,450
43,500
4,985
4,753
4,985
4,886
43,500
43,550
4,991
4,759
4,991
4,892
43,550
43,600
4,997
4,765
4,997
4,898
43,600
43,650
5,003
4,771
5,003
4,904
43,650
43,700
5,009
4,777
5,009
4,910
43,700
43,750
5,015
4,783
5,015
4,916
43,750
43,800
5,021
4,789
5,021
4,922
43,800
43,850
5,027
4,795
5,027
4,928
43,850
43,900
5,033
4,801
5,033
4,934
43,900
43,950
5,039
4,807
5,039
4,940
43,950
44,000
5,045
4,813
5,045
4,946
44,000
44,000
44,050
5,051
4,819
5,051
4,952
44,050
44,100
5,057
4,825
5,057
4,958
44,100
44,150
5,063
4,831
5,063
4,964
44,150
44,200
5,069
4,837
5,069
4,970
44,200
44,250
5,075
4,843
5,075
4,976
44,250
44,300
5,081
4,849
5,081
4,982
44,300
44,350
5,087
4,855
5,087
4,988
44,350
44,400
5,093
4,861
5,093
4,994
44,400
44,450
5,099
4,867
5,099
5,000
44,450
44,500
5,105
4,873
5,105
5,006
44,500
44,550
5,111
4,879
5,111
5,012
44,550
44,600
5,117
4,885
5,117
5,018
44,600
44,650
5,123
4,891
5,123
5,024
44,650
44,700
5,129
4,897
5,129
5,030
44,700
44,750
5,135
4,903
5,135
5,036
44,750
44,800
5,141
4,909
5,141
5,042
44,800
44,850
5,147
4,915
5,147
5,048
44,850
44,900
5,153
4,921
5,153
5,054
44,900
44,950
5,159
4,927
5,159
5,060
44,950
45,000
5,165
4,933
5,165
5,066
45,000
45,000
45,050
5,171
4,939
5,171
5,072
45,050
45,100
5,177
4,945
5,177
5,078
45,100
45,150
5,183
4,951
5,183
5,084
45,150
45,200
5,189
4,957
5,189
5,090
45,200
45,250
5,195
4,963
5,195
5,096
45,250
45,300
5,201
4,969
5,201
5,102
45,300
45,350
5,207
4,975
5,207
5,108
45,350
45,400
5,213
4,981
5,213
5,114
45,400
45,450
5,219
4,987
5,219
5,120
45,450
45,500
5,225
4,993
5,225
5,126
45,500
45,550
5,231
4,999
5,231
5,132
45,550
45,600
5,237
5,005
5,237
5,138
45,600
45,650
5,243
5,011
5,243
5,144
45,650
45,700
5,249
5,017
5,249
5,150
45,700
45,750
5,255
5,023
5,255
5,156
45,750
45,800
5,261
5,029
5,261
5,162
45,800
45,850
5,267
5,035
5,267
5,168
45,850
45,900
5,273
5,041
5,273
5,174
45,900
45,950
5,279
5,047
5,279
5,180
45,950
46,000
5,285
5,053
5,285
5,186
46,000
46,000
46,050
5,291
5,059
5,291
5,192
46,050
46,100
5,297
5,065
5,297
5,198
46,100
46,150
5,303
5,071
5,303
5,204
46,150
46,200
5,309
5,077
5,309
5,210
46,200
46,250
5,315
5,083
5,315
5,216
46,250
46,300
5,321
5,089
5,321
5,222
46,300
46,350
5,327
5,095
5,327
5,228
46,350
46,400
5,333
5,101
5,333
5,234
46,400
46,450
5,339
5,107
5,339
5,240
46,450
46,500
5,345
5,113
5,345
5,246
46,500
46,550
5,351
5,119
5,351
5,252
46,550
46,600
5,357
5,125
5,357
5,258
46,600
46,650
5,363
5,131
5,363
5,264
46,650
46,700
5,369
5,137
5,369
5,270
46,700
46,750
5,375
5,143
5,375
5,276
46,750
46,800
5,381
5,149
5,381
5,282
46,800
46,850
5,387
5,155
5,387
5,288
46,850
46,900
5,393
5,161
5,393
5,294
46,900
46,950
5,399
5,167
5,399
5,300
46,950
47,000
5,405
5,173
5,405
5,306
47,000
47,000
47,050
5,411
5,179
5,411
5,312
47,050
47,100
5,417
5,185
5,417
5,318
47,100
47,150
5,423
5,191
5,423
5,324
47,150
47,200
5,432
5,197
5,432
5,330
47,200
47,250
5,443
5,203
5,443
5,336
47,250
47,300
5,454
5,209
5,454
5,342
47,300
47,350
5,465
5,215
5,465
5,348
47,350
47,400
5,476
5,221
5,476
5,354
47,400
47,450
5,487
5,227
5,487
5,360
47,450
47,500
5,498
5,233
5,498
5,366
47,500
47,550
5,509
5,239
5,509
5,372
47,550
47,600
5,520
5,245
5,520
5,378
47,600
47,650
5,531
5,251
5,531
5,384
47,650
47,700
5,542
5,257
5,542
5,390
47,700
47,750
5,553
5,263
5,553
5,396
47,750
47,800
5,564
5,269
5,564
5,402
47,800
47,850
5,575
5,275
5,575
5,408
47,850
47,900
5,586
5,281
5,586
5,414
47,900
47,950
5,597
5,287
5,597
5,420
47,950
48,000
5,608
5,293
5,608
5,426
48,000
48,000
48,050
5,619
5,299
5,619
5,432
48,050
48,100
5,630
5,305
5,630
5,438
48,100
48,150
5,641
5,311
5,641
5,444
48,150
48,200
5,652
5,317
5,652
5,450
48,200
48,250
5,663
5,323
5,663
5,456
48,250
48,300
5,674
5,329
5,674
5,462
48,300
48,350
5,685
5,335
5,685
5,468
48,350
48,400
5,696
5,341
5,696
5,474
48,400
48,450
5,707
5,347
5,707
5,480
48,450
48,500
5,718
5,353
5,718
5,486
48,500
48,550
5,729
5,359
5,729
5,492
48,550
48,600
5,740
5,365
5,740
5,498
48,600
48,650
5,751
5,371
5,751
5,504
48,650
48,700
5,762
5,377
5,762
5,510
48,700
48,750
5,773
5,383
5,773
5,516
48,750
48,800
5,784
5,389
5,784
5,522
48,800
48,850
5,795
5,395
5,795
5,528
48,850
48,900
5,806
5,401
5,806
5,534
48,900
48,950
5,817
5,407
5,817
5,540
48,950
49,000
5,828
5,413
5,828
5,546
49,000
49,000
49,050
5,839
5,419
5,839
5,552
49,050
49,100
5,850
5,425
5,850
5,558
49,100
49,150
5,861
5,431
5,861
5,564
49,150
49,200
5,872
5,437
5,872
5,570
49,200
49,250
5,883
5,443
5,883
5,576
49,250
49,300
5,894
5,449
5,894
5,582
49,300
49,350
5,905
5,455
5,905
5,588
49,350
49,400
5,916
5,461
5,916
5,594
49,400
49,450
5,927
5,467
5,927
5,600
49,450
49,500
5,938
5,473
5,938
5,606
49,500
49,550
5,949
5,479
5,949
5,612
49,550
49,600
5,960
5,485
5,960
5,618
49,600
49,650
5,971
5,491
5,971
5,624
49,650
49,700
5,982
5,497
5,982
5,630
49,700
49,750
5,993
5,503
5,993
5,636
49,750
49,800
6,004
5,509
6,004
5,642
49,800
49,850
6,015
5,515
6,015
5,648
49,850
49,900
6,026
5,521
6,026
5,654
49,900
49,950
6,037
5,527
6,037
5,660
49,950
50,000
6,048
5,533
6,048
5,666
50,000
50,000
50,050
6,059
5,539
6,059
5,672
50,050
50,100
6,070
5,545
6,070
5,678
50,100
50,150
6,081
5,551
6,081
5,684
50,150
50,200
6,092
5,557
6,092
5,690
50,200
50,250
6,103
5,563
6,103
5,696
50,250
50,300
6,114
5,569
6,114
5,702
50,300
50,350
6,125
5,575
6,125
5,708
50,350
50,400
6,136
5,581
6,136
5,714
50,400
50,450
6,147
5,587
6,147
5,720
50,450
50,500
6,158
5,593
6,158
5,726
50,500
50,550
6,169
5,599
6,169
5,732
50,550
50,600
6,180
5,605
6,180
5,738
50,600
50,650
6,191
5,611
6,191
5,744
50,650
50,700
6,202
5,617
6,202
5,750
50,700
50,750
6,213
5,623
6,213
5,756
50,750
50,800
6,224
5,629
6,224
5,762
50,800
50,850
6,235
5,635
6,235
5,768
50,850
50,900
6,246
5,641
6,246
5,774
50,900
50,950
6,257
5,647
6,257
5,780
50,950
51,000
6,268
5,653
6,268
5,786
51,000
51,000
51,050
6,279
5,659
6,279
5,792
51,050
51,100
6,290
5,665
6,290
5,798
51,100
51,150
6,301
5,671
6,301
5,804
51,150
51,200
6,312
5,677
6,312
5,810
51,200
51,250
6,323
5,683
6,323
5,816
51,250
51,300
6,334
5,689
6,334
5,822
51,300
51,350
6,345
5,695
6,345
5,828
51,350
51,400
6,356
5,701
6,356
5,834
51,400
51,450
6,367
5,707
6,367
5,840
51,450
51,500
6,378
5,713
6,378
5,846
51,500
51,550
6,389
5,719
6,389
5,852
51,550
51,600
6,400
5,725
6,400
5,858
51,600
51,650
6,411
5,731
6,411
5,864
51,650
51,700
6,422
5,737
6,422
5,870
51,700
51,750
6,433
5,743
6,433
5,876
51,750
51,800
6,444
5,749
6,444
5,882
51,800
51,850
6,455
5,755
6,455
5,888
51,850
51,900
6,466
5,761
6,466
5,894
51,900
51,950
6,477
5,767
6,477
5,900
51,950
52,000
6,488
5,773
6,488
5,906
52,000
52,000
52,050
6,499
5,779
6,499
5,912
52,050
52,100
6,510
5,785
6,510
5,918
52,100
52,150
6,521
5,791
6,521
5,924
52,150
52,200
6,532
5,797
6,532
5,930
52,200
52,250
6,543
5,803
6,543
5,936
52,250
52,300
6,554
5,809
6,554
5,942
52,300
52,350
6,565
5,815
6,565
5,948
52,350
52,400
6,576
5,821
6,576
5,954
52,400
52,450
6,587
5,827
6,587
5,960
52,450
52,500
6,598
5,833
6,598
5,966
52,500
52,550
6,609
5,839
6,609
5,972
52,550
52,600
6,620
5,845
6,620
5,978
52,600
52,650
6,631
5,851
6,631
5,984
52,650
52,700
6,642
5,857
6,642
5,990
52,700
52,750
6,653
5,863
6,653
5,996
52,750
52,800
6,664
5,869
6,664
6,002
52,800
52,850
6,675
5,875
6,675
6,008
52,850
52,900
6,686
5,881
6,686
6,014
52,900
52,950
6,697
5,887
6,697
6,020
52,950
53,000
6,708
5,893
6,708
6,026
53,000
53,000
53,050
6,719
5,899
6,719
6,032
53,050
53,100
6,730
5,905
6,730
6,038
53,100
53,150
6,741
5,911
6,741
6,044
53,150
53,200
6,752
5,917
6,752
6,050
53,200
53,250
6,763
5,923
6,763
6,056
53,250
53,300
6,774
5,929
6,774
6,062
53,300
53,350
6,785
5,935
6,785
6,068
53,350
53,400
6,796
5,941
6,796
6,074
53,400
53,450
6,807
5,947
6,807
6,080
53,450
53,500
6,818
5,953
6,818
6,086
53,500
53,550
6,829
5,959
6,829
6,092
53,550
53,600
6,840
5,965
6,840
6,098
53,600
53,650
6,851
5,971
6,851
6,104
53,650
53,700
6,862
5,977
6,862
6,110
53,700
53,750
6,873
5,983
6,873
6,116
53,750
53,800
6,884
5,989
6,884
6,122
53,800
53,850
6,895
5,995
6,895
6,128
53,850
53,900
6,906
6,001
6,906
6,134
53,900
53,950
6,917
6,007
6,917
6,140
53,950
54,000
6,928
6,013
6,928
6,146
54,000
54,000
54,050
6,939
6,019
6,939
6,152
54,050
54,100
6,950
6,025
6,950
6,158
54,100
54,150
6,961
6,031
6,961
6,164
54,150
54,200
6,972
6,037
6,972
6,170
54,200
54,250
6,983
6,043
6,983
6,176
54,250
54,300
6,994
6,049
6,994
6,182
54,300
54,350
7,005
6,055
7,005
6,188
54,350
54,400
7,016
6,061
7,016
6,194
54,400
54,450
7,027
6,067
7,027
6,200
54,450
54,500
7,038
6,073
7,038
6,206
54,500
54,550
7,049
6,079
7,049
6,212
54,550
54,600
7,060
6,085
7,060
6,218
54,600
54,650
7,071
6,091
7,071
6,224
54,650
54,700
7,082
6,097
7,082
6,230
54,700
54,750
7,093
6,103
7,093
6,236
54,750
54,800
7,104
6,109
7,104
6,242
54,800
54,850
7,115
6,115
7,115
6,248
54,850
54,900
7,126
6,121
7,126
6,254
54,900
54,950
7,137
6,127
7,137
6,260
54,950
55,000
7,148
6,133
7,148
6,266
55,000
55,000
55,050
7,159
6,139
7,159
6,272
55,050
55,100
7,170
6,145
7,170
6,278
55,100
55,150
7,181
6,151
7,181
6,284
55,150
55,200
7,192
6,157
7,192
6,290
55,200
55,250
7,203
6,163
7,203
6,296
55,250
55,300
7,214
6,169
7,214
6,302
55,300
55,350
7,225
6,175
7,225
6,308
55,350
55,400
7,236
6,181
7,236
6,314
55,400
55,450
7,247
6,187
7,247
6,320
55,450
55,500
7,258
6,193
7,258
6,326
55,500
55,550
7,269
6,199
7,269
6,332
55,550
55,600
7,280
6,205
7,280
6,338
55,600
55,650
7,291
6,211
7,291
6,344
55,650
55,700
7,302
6,217
7,302
6,350
55,700
55,750
7,313
6,223
7,313
6,356
55,750
55,800
7,324
6,229
7,324
6,362
55,800
55,850
7,335
6,235
7,335
6,368
55,850
55,900
7,346
6,241
7,346
6,374
55,900
55,950
7,357
6,247
7,357
6,380
55,950
56,000
7,368
6,253
7,368
6,386
56,000
56,000
56,050
7,379
6,259
7,379
6,392
56,050
56,100
7,390
6,265
7,390
6,398
56,100
56,150
7,401
6,271
7,401
6,404
56,150
56,200
7,412
6,277
7,412
6,410
56,200
56,250
7,423
6,283
7,423
6,416
56,250
56,300
7,434
6,289
7,434
6,422
56,300
56,350
7,445
6,295
7,445
6,428
56,350
56,400
7,456
6,301
7,456
6,434
56,400
56,450
7,467
6,307
7,467
6,440
56,450
56,500
7,478
6,313
7,478
6,446
56,500
56,550
7,489
6,319
7,489
6,452
56,550
56,600
7,500
6,325
7,500
6,458
56,600
56,650
7,511
6,331
7,511
6,464
56,650
56,700
7,522
6,337
7,522
6,470
56,700
56,750
7,533
6,343
7,533
6,476
56,750
56,800
7,544
6,349
7,544
6,482
56,800
56,850
7,555
6,355
7,555
6,488
56,850
56,900
7,566
6,361
7,566
6,494
56,900
56,950
7,577
6,367
7,577
6,500
56,950
57,000
7,588
6,373
7,588
6,506
57,000
57,000
57,050
7,599
6,379
7,599
6,512
57,050
57,100
7,610
6,385
7,610
6,518
57,100
57,150
7,621
6,391
7,621
6,524
57,150
57,200
7,632
6,397
7,632
6,530
57,200
57,250
7,643
6,403
7,643
6,536
57,250
57,300
7,654
6,409
7,654
6,542
57,300
57,350
7,665
6,415
7,665
6,548
57,350
57,400
7,676
6,421
7,676
6,554
57,400
57,450
7,687
6,427
7,687
6,560
57,450
57,500
7,698
6,433
7,698
6,566
57,500
57,550
7,709
6,439
7,709
6,572
57,550
57,600
7,720
6,445
7,720
6,578
57,600
57,650
7,731
6,451
7,731
6,584
57,650
57,700
7,742
6,457
7,742
6,590
57,700
57,750
7,753
6,463
7,753
6,596
57,750
57,800
7,764
6,469
7,764
6,602
57,800
57,850
7,775
6,475
7,775
6,608
57,850
57,900
7,786
6,481
7,786
6,614
57,900
57,950
7,797
6,487
7,797
6,620
57,950
58,000
7,808
6,493
7,808
6,626
58,000
58,000
58,050
7,819
6,499
7,819
6,632
58,050
58,100
7,830
6,505
7,830
6,638
58,100
58,150
7,841
6,511
7,841
6,644
58,150
58,200
7,852
6,517
7,852
6,650
58,200
58,250
7,863
6,523
7,863
6,656
58,250
58,300
7,874
6,529
7,874
6,662
58,300
58,350
7,885
6,535
7,885
6,668
58,350
58,400
7,896
6,541
7,896
6,674
58,400
58,450
7,907
6,547
7,907
6,680
58,450
58,500
7,918
6,553
7,918
6,686
58,500
58,550
7,929
6,559
7,929
6,692
58,550
58,600
7,940
6,565
7,940
6,698
58,600
58,650
7,951
6,571
7,951
6,704
58,650
58,700
7,962
6,577
7,962
6,710
58,700
58,750
7,973
6,583
7,973
6,716
58,750
58,800
7,984
6,589
7,984
6,722
58,800
58,850
7,995
6,595
7,995
6,728
58,850
58,900
8,006
6,601
8,006
6,734
58,900
58,950
8,017
6,607
8,017
6,740
58,950
59,000
8,028
6,613
8,028
6,746
59,000
59,000
59,050
8,039
6,619
8,039
6,752
59,050
59,100
8,050
6,625
8,050
6,758
59,100
59,150
8,061
6,631
8,061
6,764
59,150
59,200
8,072
6,637
8,072
6,770
59,200
59,250
8,083
6,643
8,083
6,776
59,250
59,300
8,094
6,649
8,094
6,782
59,300
59,350
8,105
6,655
8,105
6,788
59,350
59,400
8,116
6,661
8,116
6,794
59,400
59,450
8,127
6,667
8,127
6,800
59,450
59,500
8,138
6,673
8,138
6,806
59,500
59,550
8,149
6,679
8,149
6,812
59,550
59,600
8,160
6,685
8,160
6,818
59,600
59,650
8,171
6,691
8,171
6,824
59,650
59,700
8,182
6,697
8,182
6,830
59,700
59,750
8,193
6,703
8,193
6,836
59,750
59,800
8,204
6,709
8,204
6,842
59,800
59,850
8,215
6,715
8,215
6,848
59,850
59,900
8,226
6,721
8,226
6,854
59,900
59,950
8,237
6,727
8,237
6,860
59,950
60,000
8,248
6,733
8,248
6,866
60,000
60,000
60,050
8,259
6,739
8,259
6,872
60,050
60,100
8,270
6,745
8,270
6,878
60,100
60,150
8,281
6,751
8,281
6,884
60,150
60,200
8,292
6,757
8,292
6,890
60,200
60,250
8,303
6,763
8,303
6,896
60,250
60,300
8,314
6,769
8,314
6,902
60,300
60,350
8,325
6,775
8,325
6,908
60,350
60,400
8,336
6,781
8,336
6,914
60,400
60,450
8,347
6,787
8,347
6,920
60,450
60,500
8,358
6,793
8,358
6,926
60,500
60,550
8,369
6,799
8,369
6,932
60,550
60,600
8,380
6,805
8,380
6,938
60,600
60,650
8,391
6,811
8,391
6,944
60,650
60,700
8,402
6,817
8,402
6,950
60,700
60,750
8,413
6,823
8,413
6,956
60,750
60,800
8,424
6,829
8,424
6,962
60,800
60,850
8,435
6,835
8,435
6,968
60,850
60,900
8,446
6,841
8,446
6,974
60,900
60,950
8,457
6,847
8,457
6,980
60,950
61,000
8,468
6,853
8,468
6,986
61,000
61,000
61,050
8,479
6,859
8,479
6,992
61,050
61,100
8,490
6,865
8,490
6,998
61,100
61,150
8,501
6,871
8,501
7,004
61,150
61,200
8,512
6,877
8,512
7,010
61,200
61,250
8,523
6,883
8,523
7,016
61,250
61,300
8,534
6,889
8,534
7,022
61,300
61,350
8,545
6,895
8,545
7,028
61,350
61,400
8,556
6,901
8,556
7,034
61,400
61,450
8,567
6,907
8,567
7,040
61,450
61,500
8,578
6,913
8,578
7,046
61,500
61,550
8,589
6,919
8,589
7,052
61,550
61,600
8,600
6,925
8,600
7,058
61,600
61,650
8,611
6,931
8,611
7,064
61,650
61,700
8,622
6,937
8,622
7,070
61,700
61,750
8,633
6,943
8,633
7,076
61,750
61,800
8,644
6,949
8,644
7,082
61,800
61,850
8,655
6,955
8,655
7,088
61,850
61,900
8,666
6,961
8,666
7,094
61,900
61,950
8,677
6,967
8,677
7,100
61,950
62,000
8,688
6,973
8,688
7,106
62,000
62,000
62,050
8,699
6,979
8,699
7,112
62,050
62,100
8,710
6,985
8,710
7,118
62,100
62,150
8,721
6,991
8,721
7,124
62,150
62,200
8,732
6,997
8,732
7,130
62,200
62,250
8,743
7,003
8,743
7,136
62,250
62,300
8,754
7,009
8,754
7,142
62,300
62,350
8,765
7,015
8,765
7,148
62,350
62,400
8,776
7,021
8,776
7,154
62,400
62,450
8,787
7,027
8,787
7,160
62,450
62,500
8,798
7,033
8,798
7,166
62,500
62,550
8,809
7,039
8,809
7,172
62,550
62,600
8,820
7,045
8,820
7,178
62,600
62,650
8,831
7,051
8,831
7,184
62,650
62,700
8,842
7,057
8,842
7,190
62,700
62,750
8,853
7,063
8,853
7,196
62,750
62,800
8,864
7,069
8,864
7,202
62,800
62,850
8,875
7,075
8,875
7,208
62,850
62,900
8,886
7,081
8,886
7,214
62,900
62,950
8,897
7,087
8,897
7,220
62,950
63,000
8,908
7,093
8,908
7,226
63,000
63,000
63,050
8,919
7,099
8,919
7,232
63,050
63,100
8,930
7,105
8,930
7,238
63,100
63,150
8,941
7,111
8,941
7,247
63,150
63,200
8,952
7,117
8,952
7,258
63,200
63,250
8,963
7,123
8,963
7,269
63,250
63,300
8,974
7,129
8,974
7,280
63,300
63,350
8,985
7,135
8,985
7,291
63,350
63,400
8,996
7,141
8,996
7,302
63,400
63,450
9,007
7,147
9,007
7,313
63,450
63,500
9,018
7,153
9,018
7,324
63,500
63,550
9,029
7,159
9,029
7,335
63,550
63,600
9,040
7,165
9,040
7,346
63,600
63,650
9,051
7,171
9,051
7,357
63,650
63,700
9,062
7,177
9,062
7,368
63,700
63,750
9,073
7,183
9,073
7,379
63,750
63,800
9,084
7,189
9,084
7,390
63,800
63,850
9,095
7,195
9,095
7,401
63,850
63,900
9,106
7,201
9,106
7,412
63,900
63,950
9,117
7,207
9,117
7,423
63,950
64,000
9,128
7,213
9,128
7,434
64,000
64,000
64,050
9,139
7,219
9,139
7,445
64,050
64,100
9,150
7,225
9,150
7,456
64,100
64,150
9,161
7,231
9,161
7,467
64,150
64,200
9,172
7,237
9,172
7,478
64,200
64,250
9,183
7,243
9,183
7,489
64,250
64,300
9,194
7,249
9,194
7,500
64,300
64,350
9,205
7,255
9,205
7,511
64,350
64,400
9,216
7,261
9,216
7,522
64,400
64,450
9,227
7,267
9,227
7,533
64,450
64,500
9,238
7,273
9,238
7,544
64,500
64,550
9,249
7,279
9,249
7,555
64,550
64,600
9,260
7,285
9,260
7,566
64,600
64,650
9,271
7,291
9,271
7,577
64,650
64,700
9,282
7,297
9,282
7,588
64,700
64,750
9,293
7,303
9,293
7,599
64,750
64,800
9,304
7,309
9,304
7,610
64,800
64,850
9,315
7,315
9,315
7,621
64,850
64,900
9,326
7,321
9,326
7,632
64,900
64,950
9,337
7,327
9,337
7,643
64,950
65,000
9,348
7,333
9,348
7,654
65,000
65,000
65,050
9,359
7,339
9,359
7,665
65,050
65,100
9,370
7,345
9,370
7,676
65,100
65,150
9,381
7,351
9,381
7,687
65,150
65,200
9,392
7,357
9,392
7,698
65,200
65,250
9,403
7,363
9,403
7,709
65,250
65,300
9,414
7,369
9,414
7,720
65,300
65,350
9,425
7,375
9,425
7,731
65,350
65,400
9,436
7,381
9,436
7,742
65,400
65,450
9,447
7,387
9,447
7,753
65,450
65,500
9,458
7,393
9,458
7,764
65,500
65,550
9,469
7,399
9,469
7,775
65,550
65,600
9,480
7,405
9,480
7,786
65,600
65,650
9,491
7,411
9,491
7,797
65,650
65,700
9,502
7,417
9,502
7,808
65,700
65,750
9,513
7,423
9,513
7,819
65,750
65,800
9,524
7,429
9,524
7,830
65,800
65,850
9,535
7,435
9,535
7,841
65,850
65,900
9,546
7,441
9,546
7,852
65,900
65,950
9,557
7,447
9,557
7,863
65,950
66,000
9,568
7,453
9,568
7,874
66,000
66,000
66,050
9,579
7,459
9,579
7,885
66,050
66,100
9,590
7,465
9,590
7,896
66,100
66,150
9,601
7,471
9,601
7,907
66,150
66,200
9,612
7,477
9,612
7,918
66,200
66,250
9,623
7,483
9,623
7,929
66,250
66,300
9,634
7,489
9,634
7,940
66,300
66,350
9,645
7,495
9,645
7,951
66,350
66,400
9,656
7,501
9,656
7,962
66,400
66,450
9,667
7,507
9,667
7,973
66,450
66,500
9,678
7,513
9,678
7,984
66,500
66,550
9,689
7,519
9,689
7,995
66,550
66,600
9,700
7,525
9,700
8,006
66,600
66,650
9,711
7,531
9,711
8,017
66,650
66,700
9,722
7,537
9,722
8,028
66,700
66,750
9,733
7,543
9,733
8,039
66,750
66,800
9,744
7,549
9,744
8,050
66,800
66,850
9,755
7,555
9,755
8,061
66,850
66,900
9,766
7,561
9,766
8,072
66,900
66,950
9,777
7,567
9,777
8,083
66,950
67,000
9,788
7,573
9,788
8,094
67,000
67,000
67,050
9,799
7,579
9,799
8,105
67,050
67,100
9,810
7,585
9,810
8,116
67,100
67,150
9,821
7,591
9,821
8,127
67,150
67,200
9,832
7,597
9,832
8,138
67,200
67,250
9,843
7,603
9,843
8,149
67,250
67,300
9,854
7,609
9,854
8,160
67,300
67,350
9,865
7,615
9,865
8,171
67,350
67,400
9,876
7,621
9,876
8,182
67,400
67,450
9,887
7,627
9,887
8,193
67,450
67,500
9,898
7,633
9,898
8,204
67,500
67,550
9,909
7,639
9,909
8,215
67,550
67,600
9,920
7,645
9,920
8,226
67,600
67,650
9,931
7,651
9,931
8,237
67,650
67,700
9,942
7,657
9,942
8,248
67,700
67,750
9,953
7,663
9,953
8,259
67,750
67,800
9,964
7,669
9,964
8,270
67,800
67,850
9,975
7,675
9,975
8,281
67,850
67,900
9,986
7,681
9,986
8,292
67,900
67,950
9,997
7,687
9,997
8,303
67,950
68,000
10,008
7,693
10,008
8,314
68,000
68,000
68,050
10,019
7,699
10,019
8,325
68,050
68,100
10,030
7,705
10,030
8,336
68,100
68,150
10,041
7,711
10,041
8,347
68,150
68,200
10,052
7,717
10,052
8,358
68,200
68,250
10,063
7,723
10,063
8,369
68,250
68,300
10,074
7,729
10,074
8,380
68,300
68,350
10,085
7,735
10,085
8,391
68,350
68,400
10,096
7,741
10,096
8,402
68,400
68,450
10,107
7,747
10,107
8,413
68,450
68,500
10,118
7,753
10,118
8,424
68,500
68,550
10,129
7,759
10,129
8,435
68,550
68,600
10,140
7,765
10,140
8,446
68,600
68,650
10,151
7,771
10,151
8,457
68,650
68,700
10,162
7,777
10,162
8,468
68,700
68,750
10,173
7,783
10,173
8,479
68,750
68,800
10,184
7,789
10,184
8,490
68,800
68,850
10,195
7,795
10,195
8,501
68,850
68,900
10,206
7,801
10,206
8,512
68,900
68,950
10,217
7,807
10,217
8,523
68,950
69,000
10,228
7,813
10,228
8,534
69,000
69,000
69,050
10,239
7,819
10,239
8,545
69,050
69,100
10,250
7,825
10,250
8,556
69,100
69,150
10,261
7,831
10,261
8,567
69,150
69,200
10,272
7,837
10,272
8,578
69,200
69,250
10,283
7,843
10,283
8,589
69,250
69,300
10,294
7,849
10,294
8,600
69,300
69,350
10,305
7,855
10,305
8,611
69,350
69,400
10,316
7,861
10,316
8,622
69,400
69,450
10,327
7,867
10,327
8,633
69,450
69,500
10,338
7,873
10,338
8,644
69,500
69,550
10,349
7,879
10,349
8,655
69,550
69,600
10,360
7,885
10,360
8,666
69,600
69,650
10,371
7,891
10,371
8,677
69,650
69,700
10,382
7,897
10,382
8,688
69,700
69,750
10,393
7,903
10,393
8,699
69,750
69,800
10,404
7,909
10,404
8,710
69,800
69,850
10,415
7,915
10,415
8,721
69,850
69,900
10,426
7,921
10,426
8,732
69,900
69,950
10,437
7,927
10,437
8,743
69,950
70,000
10,448
7,933
10,448
8,754
70,000
70,000
70,050
10,459
7,939
10,459
8,765
70,050
70,100
10,470
7,945
10,470
8,776
70,100
70,150
10,481
7,951
10,481
8,787
70,150
70,200
10,492
7,957
10,492
8,798
70,200
70,250
10,503
7,963
10,503
8,809
70,250
70,300
10,514
7,969
10,514
8,820
70,300
70,350
10,525
7,975
10,525
8,831
70,350
70,400
10,536
7,981
10,536
8,842
70,400
70,450
10,547
7,987
10,547
8,853
70,450
70,500
10,558
7,993
10,558
8,864
70,500
70,550
10,569
7,999
10,569
8,875
70,550
70,600
10,580
8,005
10,580
8,886
70,600
70,650
10,591
8,011
10,591
8,897
70,650
70,700
10,602
8,017
10,602
8,908
70,700
70,750
10,613
8,023
10,613
8,919
70,750
70,800
10,624
8,029
10,624
8,930
70,800
70,850
10,635
8,035
10,635
8,941
70,850
70,900
10,646
8,041
10,646
8,952
70,900
70,950
10,657
8,047
10,657
8,963
70,950
71,000
10,668
8,053
10,668
8,974
71,000
71,000
71,050
10,679
8,059
10,679
8,985
71,050
71,100
10,690
8,065
10,690
8,996
71,100
71,150
10,701
8,071
10,701
9,007
71,150
71,200
10,712
8,077
10,712
9,018
71,200
71,250
10,723
8,083
10,723
9,029
71,250
71,300
10,734
8,089
10,734
9,040
71,300
71,350
10,745
8,095
10,745
9,051
71,350
71,400
10,756
8,101
10,756
9,062
71,400
71,450
10,767
8,107
10,767
9,073
71,450
71,500
10,778
8,113
10,778
9,084
71,500
71,550
10,789
8,119
10,789
9,095
71,550
71,600
10,800
8,125
10,800
9,106
71,600
71,650
10,811
8,131
10,811
9,117
71,650
71,700
10,822
8,137
10,822
9,128
71,700
71,750
10,833
8,143
10,833
9,139
71,750
71,800
10,844
8,149
10,844
9,150
71,800
71,850
10,855
8,155
10,855
9,161
71,850
71,900
10,866
8,161
10,866
9,172
71,900
71,950
10,877
8,167
10,877
9,183
71,950
72,000
10,888
8,173
10,888
9,194
72,000
72,000
72,050
10,899
8,179
10,899
9,205
72,050
72,100
10,910
8,185
10,910
9,216
72,100
72,150
10,921
8,191
10,921
9,227
72,150
72,200
10,932
8,197
10,932
9,238
72,200
72,250
10,943
8,203
10,943
9,249
72,250
72,300
10,954
8,209
10,954
9,260
72,300
72,350
10,965
8,215
10,965
9,271
72,350
72,400
10,976
8,221
10,976
9,282
72,400
72,450
10,987
8,227
10,987
9,293
72,450
72,500
10,998
8,233
10,998
9,304
72,500
72,550
11,009
8,239
11,009
9,315
72,550
72,600
11,020
8,245
11,020
9,326
72,600
72,650
11,031
8,251
11,031
9,337
72,650
72,700
11,042
8,257
11,042
9,348
72,700
72,750
11,053
8,263
11,053
9,359
72,750
72,800
11,064
8,269
11,064
9,370
72,800
72,850
11,075
8,275
11,075
9,381
72,850
72,900
11,086
8,281
11,086
9,392
72,900
72,950
11,097
8,287
11,097
9,403
72,950
73,000
11,108
8,293
11,108
9,414
73,000
73,000
73,050
11,119
8,299
11,119
9,425
73,050
73,100
11,130
8,305
11,130
9,436
73,100
73,150
11,141
8,311
11,141
9,447
73,150
73,200
11,152
8,317
11,152
9,458
73,200
73,250
11,163
8,323
11,163
9,469
73,250
73,300
11,174
8,329
11,174
9,480
73,300
73,350
11,185
8,335
11,185
9,491
73,350
73,400
11,196
8,341
11,196
9,502
73,400
73,450
11,207
8,347
11,207
9,513
73,450
73,500
11,218
8,353
11,218
9,524
73,500
73,550
11,229
8,359
11,229
9,535
73,550
73,600
11,240
8,365
11,240
9,546
73,600
73,650
11,251
8,371
11,251
9,557
73,650
73,700
11,262
8,377
11,262
9,568
73,700
73,750
11,273
8,383
11,273
9,579
73,750
73,800
11,284
8,389
11,284
9,590
73,800
73,850
11,295
8,395
11,295
9,601
73,850
73,900
11,306
8,401
11,306
9,612
73,900
73,950
11,317
8,407
11,317
9,623
73,950
74,000
11,328
8,413
11,328
9,634
74,000
74,000
74,050
11,339
8,419
11,339
9,645
74,050
74,100
11,350
8,425
11,350
9,656
74,100
74,150
11,361
8,431
11,361
9,667
74,150
74,200
11,372
8,437
11,372
9,678
74,200
74,250
11,383
8,443
11,383
9,689
74,250
74,300
11,394
8,449
11,394
9,700
74,300
74,350
11,405
8,455
11,405
9,711
74,350
74,400
11,416
8,461
11,416
9,722
74,400
74,450
11,427
8,467
11,427
9,733
74,450
74,500
11,438
8,473
11,438
9,744
74,500
74,550
11,449
8,479
11,449
9,755
74,550
74,600
11,460
8,485
11,460
9,766
74,600
74,650
11,471
8,491
11,471
9,777
74,650
74,700
11,482
8,497
11,482
9,788
74,700
74,750
11,493
8,503
11,493
9,799
74,750
74,800
11,504
8,509
11,504
9,810
74,800
74,850
11,515
8,515
11,515
9,821
74,850
74,900
11,526
8,521
11,526
9,832
74,900
74,950
11,537
8,527
11,537
9,843
74,950
75,000
11,548
8,533
11,548
9,854
75,000
75,000
75,050
11,559
8,539
11,559
9,865
75,050
75,100
11,570
8,545
11,570
9,876
75,100
75,150
11,581
8,551
11,581
9,887
75,150
75,200
11,592
8,557
11,592
9,898
75,200
75,250
11,603
8,563
11,603
9,909
75,250
75,300
11,614
8,569
11,614
9,920
75,300
75,350
11,625
8,575
11,625
9,931
75,350
75,400
11,636
8,581
11,636
9,942
75,400
75,450
11,647
8,587
11,647
9,953
75,450
75,500
11,658
8,593
11,658
9,964
75,500
75,550
11,669
8,599
11,669
9,975
75,550
75,600
11,680
8,605
11,680
9,986
75,600
75,650
11,691
8,611
11,691
9,997
75,650
75,700
11,702
8,617
11,702
10,008
75,700
75,750
11,713
8,623
11,713
10,019
75,750
75,800
11,724
8,629
11,724
10,030
75,800
75,850
11,735
8,635
11,735
10,041
75,850
75,900
11,746
8,641
11,746
10,052
75,900
75,950
11,757
8,647
11,757
10,063
75,950
76,000
11,768
8,653
11,768
10,074
76,000
76,000
76,050
11,779
8,659
11,779
10,085
76,050
76,100
11,790
8,665
11,790
10,096
76,100
76,150
11,801
8,671
11,801
10,107
76,150
76,200
11,812
8,677
11,812
10,118
76,200
76,250
11,823
8,683
11,823
10,129
76,250
76,300
11,834
8,689
11,834
10,140
76,300
76,350
11,845
8,695
11,845
10,151
76,350
76,400
11,856
8,701
11,856
10,162
76,400
76,450
11,867
8,707
11,867
10,173
76,450
76,500
11,878
8,713
11,878
10,184
76,500
76,550
11,889
8,719
11,889
10,195
76,550
76,600
11,900
8,725
11,900
10,206
76,600
76,650
11,911
8,731
11,911
10,217
76,650
76,700
11,922
8,737
11,922
10,228
76,700
76,750
11,933
8,743
11,933
10,239
76,750
76,800
11,944
8,749
11,944
10,250
76,800
76,850
11,955
8,755
11,955
10,261
76,850
76,900
11,966
8,761
11,966
10,272
76,900
76,950
11,977
8,767
11,977
10,283
76,950
77,000
11,988
8,773
11,988
10,294
77,000
77,000
77,050
11,999
8,779
11,999
10,305
77,050
77,100
12,010
8,785
12,010
10,316
77,100
77,150
12,021
8,791
12,021
10,327
77,150
77,200
12,032
8,797
12,032
10,338
77,200
77,250
12,043
8,803
12,043
10,349
77,250
77,300
12,054
8,809
12,054
10,360
77,300
77,350
12,065
8,815
12,065
10,371
77,350
77,400
12,076
8,821
12,076
10,382
77,400
77,450
12,087
8,827
12,087
10,393
77,450
77,500
12,098
8,833
12,098
10,404
77,500
77,550
12,109
8,839
12,109
10,415
77,550
77,600
12,120
8,845
12,120
10,426
77,600
77,650
12,131
8,851
12,131
10,437
77,650
77,700
12,142
8,857
12,142
10,448
77,700
77,750
12,153
8,863
12,153
10,459
77,750
77,800
12,164
8,869
12,164
10,470
77,800
77,850
12,175
8,875
12,175
10,481
77,850
77,900
12,186
8,881
12,186
10,492
77,900
77,950
12,197
8,887
12,197
10,503
77,950
78,000
12,208
8,893
12,208
10,514
78,000
78,000
78,050
12,219
8,899
12,219
10,525
78,050
78,100
12,230
8,905
12,230
10,536
78,100
78,150
12,241
8,911
12,241
10,547
78,150
78,200
12,252
8,917
12,252
10,558
78,200
78,250
12,263
8,923
12,263
10,569
78,250
78,300
12,274
8,929
12,274
10,580
78,300
78,350
12,285
8,935
12,285
10,591
78,350
78,400
12,296
8,941
12,296
10,602
78,400
78,450
12,307
8,947
12,307
10,613
78,450
78,500
12,318
8,953
12,318
10,624
78,500
78,550
12,329
8,959
12,329
10,635
78,550
78,600
12,340
8,965
12,340
10,646
78,600
78,650
12,351
8,971
12,351
10,657
78,650
78,700
12,362
8,977
12,362
10,668
78,700
78,750
12,373
8,983
12,373
10,679
78,750
78,800
12,384
8,989
12,384
10,690
78,800
78,850
12,395
8,995
12,395
10,701
78,850
78,900
12,406
9,001
12,406
10,712
78,900
78,950
12,417
9,007
12,417
10,723
78,950
79,000
12,428
9,013
12,428
10,734
79,000
79,000
79,050
12,439
9,019
12,439
10,745
79,050
79,100
12,450
9,025
12,450
10,756
79,100
79,150
12,461
9,031
12,461
10,767
79,150
79,200
12,472
9,037
12,472
10,778
79,200
79,250
12,483
9,043
12,483
10,789
79,250
79,300
12,494
9,049
12,494
10,800
79,300
79,350
12,505
9,055
12,505
10,811
79,350
79,400
12,516
9,061
12,516
10,822
79,400
79,450
12,527
9,067
12,527
10,833
79,450
79,500
12,538
9,073
12,538
10,844
79,500
79,550
12,549
9,079
12,549
10,855
79,550
79,600
12,560
9,085
12,560
10,866
79,600
79,650
12,571
9,091
12,571
10,877
79,650
79,700
12,582
9,097
12,582
10,888
79,700
79,750
12,593
9,103
12,593
10,899
79,750
79,800
12,604
9,109
12,604
10,910
79,800
79,850
12,615
9,115
12,615
10,921
79,850
79,900
12,626
9,121
12,626
10,932
79,900
79,950
12,637
9,127
12,637
10,943
79,950
80,000
12,648
9,133
12,648
10,954
80,000
80,000
80,050
12,659
9,139
12,659
10,965
80,050
80,100
12,670
9,145
12,670
10,976
80,100
80,150
12,681
9,151
12,681
10,987
80,150
80,200
12,692
9,157
12,692
10,998
80,200
80,250
12,703
9,163
12,703
11,009
80,250
80,300
12,714
9,169
12,714
11,020
80,300
80,350
12,725
9,175
12,725
11,031
80,350
80,400
12,736
9,181
12,736
11,042
80,400
80,450
12,747
9,187
12,747
11,053
80,450
80,500
12,758
9,193
12,758
11,064
80,500
80,550
12,769
9,199
12,769
11,075
80,550
80,600
12,780
9,205
12,780
11,086
80,600
80,650
12,791
9,211
12,791
11,097
80,650
80,700
12,802
9,217
12,802
11,108
80,700
80,750
12,813
9,223
12,813
11,119
80,750
80,800
12,824
9,229
12,824
11,130
80,800
80,850
12,835
9,235
12,835
11,141
80,850
80,900
12,846
9,241
12,846
11,152
80,900
80,950
12,857
9,247
12,857
11,163
80,950
81,000
12,868
9,253
12,868
11,174
81,000
81,000
81,050
12,879
9,259
12,879
11,185
81,050
81,100
12,890
9,265
12,890
11,196
81,100
81,150
12,901
9,271
12,901
11,207
81,150
81,200
12,912
9,277
12,912
11,218
81,200
81,250
12,923
9,283
12,923
11,229
81,250
81,300
12,934
9,289
12,934
11,240
81,300
81,350
12,945
9,295
12,945
11,251
81,350
81,400
12,956
9,301
12,956
11,262
81,400
81,450
12,967
9,307
12,967
11,273
81,450
81,500
12,978
9,313
12,978
11,284
81,500
81,550
12,989
9,319
12,989
11,295
81,550
81,600
13,000
9,325
13,000
11,306
81,600
81,650
13,011
9,331
13,011
11,317
81,650
81,700
13,022
9,337
13,022
11,328
81,700
81,750
13,033
9,343
13,033
11,339
81,750
81,800
13,044
9,349
13,044
11,350
81,800
81,850
13,055
9,355
13,055
11,361
81,850
81,900
13,066
9,361
13,066
11,372
81,900
81,950
13,077
9,367
13,077
11,383
81,950
82,000
13,088
9,373
13,088
11,394
82,000
82,000
82,050
13,099
9,379
13,099
11,405
82,050
82,100
13,110
9,385
13,110
11,416
82,100
82,150
13,121
9,391
13,121
11,427
82,150
82,200
13,132
9,397
13,132
11,438
82,200
82,250
13,143
9,403
13,143
11,449
82,250
82,300
13,154
9,409
13,154
11,460
82,300
82,350
13,165
9,415
13,165
11,471
82,350
82,400
13,176
9,421
13,176
11,482
82,400
82,450
13,187
9,427
13,187
11,493
82,450
82,500
13,198
9,433
13,198
11,504
82,500
82,550
13,209
9,439
13,209
11,515
82,550
82,600
13,220
9,445
13,220
11,526
82,600
82,650
13,231
9,451
13,231
11,537
82,650
82,700
13,242
9,457
13,242
11,548
82,700
82,750
13,253
9,463
13,253
11,559
82,750
82,800
13,264
9,469
13,264
11,570
82,800
82,850
13,275
9,475
13,275
11,581
82,850
82,900
13,286
9,481
13,286
11,592
82,900
82,950
13,297
9,487
13,297
11,603
82,950
83,000
13,308
9,493
13,308
11,614
83,000
83,000
83,050
13,319
9,499
13,319
11,625
83,050
83,100
13,330
9,505
13,330
11,636
83,100
83,150
13,341
9,511
13,341
11,647
83,150
83,200
13,352
9,517
13,352
11,658
83,200
83,250
13,363
9,523
13,363
11,669
83,250
83,300
13,374
9,529
13,374
11,680
83,300
83,350
13,385
9,535
13,385
11,691
83,350
83,400
13,396
9,541
13,396
11,702
83,400
83,450
13,407
9,547
13,407
11,713
83,450
83,500
13,418
9,553
13,418
11,724
83,500
83,550
13,429
9,559
13,429
11,735
83,550
83,600
13,440
9,565
13,440
11,746
83,600
83,650
13,451
9,571
13,451
11,757
83,650
83,700
13,462
9,577
13,462
11,768
83,700
83,750
13,473
9,583
13,473
11,779
83,750
83,800
13,484
9,589
13,484
11,790
83,800
83,850
13,495
9,595
13,495
11,801
83,850
83,900
13,506
9,601
13,506
11,812
83,900
83,950
13,517
9,607
13,517
11,823
83,950
84,000
13,528
9,613
13,528
11,834
84,000
84,000
84,050
13,539
9,619
13,539
11,845
84,050
84,100
13,550
9,625
13,550
11,856
84,100
84,150
13,561
9,631
13,561
11,867
84,150
84,200
13,572
9,637
13,572
11,878
84,200
84,250
13,583
9,643
13,583
11,889
84,250
84,300
13,594
9,649
13,594
11,900
84,300
84,350
13,605
9,655
13,605
11,911
84,350
84,400
13,616
9,661
13,616
11,922
84,400
84,450
13,627
9,667
13,627
11,933
84,450
84,500
13,638
9,673
13,638
11,944
84,500
84,550
13,649
9,679
13,649
11,955
84,550
84,600
13,660
9,685
13,660
11,966
84,600
84,650
13,671
9,691
13,671
11,977
84,650
84,700
13,682
9,697
13,682
11,988
84,700
84,750
13,693
9,703
13,693
11,999
84,750
84,800
13,704
9,709
13,704
12,010
84,800
84,850
13,715
9,715
13,715
12,021
84,850
84,900
13,726
9,721
13,726
12,032
84,900
84,950
13,737
9,727
13,737
12,043
84,950
85,000
13,748
9,733
13,748
12,054
85,000
85,000
85,050
13,759
9,739
13,759
12,065
85,050
85,100
13,770
9,745
13,770
12,076
85,100
85,150
13,781
9,751
13,781
12,087
85,150
85,200
13,792
9,757
13,792
12,098
85,200
85,250
13,803
9,763
13,803
12,109
85,250
85,300
13,814
9,769
13,814
12,120
85,300
85,350
13,825
9,775
13,825
12,131
85,350
85,400
13,836
9,781
13,836
12,142
85,400
85,450
13,847
9,787
13,847
12,153
85,450
85,500
13,858
9,793
13,858
12,164
85,500
85,550
13,869
9,799
13,869
12,175
85,550
85,600
13,880
9,805
13,880
12,186
85,600
85,650
13,891
9,811
13,891
12,197
85,650
85,700
13,902
9,817
13,902
12,208
85,700
85,750
13,913
9,823
13,913
12,219
85,750
85,800
13,924
9,829
13,924
12,230
85,800
85,850
13,935
9,835
13,935
12,241
85,850
85,900
13,946
9,841
13,946
12,252
85,900
85,950
13,957
9,847
13,957
12,263
85,950
86,000
13,968
9,853
13,968
12,274
86,000
86,000
86,050
13,979
9,859
13,979
12,285
86,050
86,100
13,990
9,865
13,990
12,296
86,100
86,150
14,001
9,871
14,001
12,307
86,150
86,200
14,012
9,877
14,012
12,318
86,200
86,250
14,023
9,883
14,023
12,329
86,250
86,300
14,034
9,889
14,034
12,340
86,300
86,350
14,045
9,895
14,045
12,351
86,350
86,400
14,056
9,901
14,056
12,362
86,400
86,450
14,067
9,907
14,067
12,373
86,450
86,500
14,078
9,913
14,078
12,384
86,500
86,550
14,089
9,919
14,089
12,395
86,550
86,600
14,100
9,925
14,100
12,406
86,600
86,650
14,111
9,931
14,111
12,417
86,650
86,700
14,122
9,937
14,122
12,428
86,700
86,750
14,133
9,943
14,133
12,439
86,750
86,800
14,144
9,949
14,144
12,450
86,800
86,850
14,155
9,955
14,155
12,461
86,850
86,900
14,166
9,961
14,166
12,472
86,900
86,950
14,177
9,967
14,177
12,483
86,950
87,000
14,188
9,973
14,188
12,494
87,000
87,000
87,050
14,199
9,979
14,199
12,505
87,050
87,100
14,210
9,985
14,210
12,516
87,100
87,150
14,221
9,991
14,221
12,527
87,150
87,200
14,232
9,997
14,232
12,538
87,200
87,250
14,243
10,003
14,243
12,549
87,250
87,300
14,254
10,009
14,254
12,560
87,300
87,350
14,265
10,015
14,265
12,571
87,350
87,400
14,276
10,021
14,276
12,582
87,400
87,450
14,287
10,027
14,287
12,593
87,450
87,500
14,298
10,033
14,298
12,604
87,500
87,550
14,309
10,039
14,309
12,615
87,550
87,600
14,320
10,045
14,320
12,626
87,600
87,650
14,331
10,051
14,331
12,637
87,650
87,700
14,342
10,057
14,342
12,648
87,700
87,750
14,353
10,063
14,353
12,659
87,750
87,800
14,364
10,069
14,364
12,670
87,800
87,850
14,375
10,075
14,375
12,681
87,850
87,900
14,386
10,081
14,386
12,692
87,900
87,950
14,397
10,087
14,397
12,703
87,950
88,000
14,408
10,093
14,408
12,714
88,000
88,000
88,050
14,419
10,099
14,419
12,725
88,050
88,100
14,430
10,105
14,430
12,736
88,100
88,150
14,441
10,111
14,441
12,747
88,150
88,200
14,452
10,117
14,452
12,758
88,200
88,250
14,463
10,123
14,463
12,769
88,250
88,300
14,474
10,129
14,474
12,780
88,300
88,350
14,485
10,135
14,485
12,791
88,350
88,400
14,496
10,141
14,496
12,802
88,400
88,450
14,507
10,147
14,507
12,813
88,450
88,500
14,518
10,153
14,518
12,824
88,500
88,550
14,529
10,159
14,529
12,835
88,550
88,600
14,540
10,165
14,540
12,846
88,600
88,650
14,551
10,171
14,551
12,857
88,650
88,700
14,562
10,177
14,562
12,868
88,700
88,750
14,573
10,183
14,573
12,879
88,750
88,800
14,584
10,189
14,584
12,890
88,800
88,850
14,595
10,195
14,595
12,901
88,850
88,900
14,606
10,201
14,606
12,912
88,900
88,950
14,617
10,207
14,617
12,923
88,950
89,000
14,628
10,213
14,628
12,934
89,000
89,000
89,050
14,639
10,219
14,639
12,945
89,050
89,100
14,650
10,225
14,650
12,956
89,100
89,150
14,661
10,231
14,661
12,967
89,150
89,200
14,672
10,237
14,672
12,978
89,200
89,250
14,683
10,243
14,683
12,989
89,250
89,300
14,694
10,249
14,694
13,000
89,300
89,350
14,705
10,255
14,705
13,011
89,350
89,400
14,716
10,261
14,716
13,022
89,400
89,450
14,727
10,267
14,727
13,033
89,450
89,500
14,738
10,273
14,738
13,044
89,500
89,550
14,749
10,279
14,749
13,055
89,550
89,600
14,760
10,285
14,760
13,066
89,600
89,650
14,771
10,291
14,771
13,077
89,650
89,700
14,782
10,297
14,782
13,088
89,700
89,750
14,793
10,303
14,793
13,099
89,750
89,800
14,804
10,309
14,804
13,110
89,800
89,850
14,815
10,315
14,815
13,121
89,850
89,900
14,826
10,321
14,826
13,132
89,900
89,950
14,837
10,327
14,837
13,143
89,950
90,000
14,848
10,333
14,848
13,154
90,000
90,000
90,050
14,859
10,339
14,859
13,165
90,050
90,100
14,870
10,345
14,870
13,176
90,100
90,150
14,881
10,351
14,881
13,187
90,150
90,200
14,892
10,357
14,892
13,198
90,200
90,250
14,903
10,363
14,903
13,209
90,250
90,300
14,914
10,369
14,914
13,220
90,300
90,350
14,925
10,375
14,925
13,231
90,350
90,400
14,936
10,381
14,936
13,242
90,400
90,450
14,947
10,387
14,947
13,253
90,450
90,500
14,958
10,393
14,958
13,264
90,500
90,550
14,969
10,399
14,969
13,275
90,550
90,600
14,980
10,405
14,980
13,286
90,600
90,650
14,991
10,411
14,991
13,297
90,650
90,700
15,002
10,417
15,002
13,308
90,700
90,750
15,013
10,423
15,013
13,319
90,750
90,800
15,024
10,429
15,024
13,330
90,800
90,850
15,035
10,435
15,035
13,341
90,850
90,900
15,046
10,441
15,046
13,352
90,900
90,950
15,057
10,447
15,057
13,363
90,950
91,000
15,068
10,453
15,068
13,374
91,000
91,000
91,050
15,079
10,459
15,079
13,385
91,050
91,100
15,090
10,465
15,090
13,396
91,100
91,150
15,101
10,471
15,101
13,407
91,150
91,200
15,112
10,477
15,112
13,418
91,200
91,250
15,123
10,483
15,123
13,429
91,250
91,300
15,134
10,489
15,134
13,440
91,300
91,350
15,145
10,495
15,145
13,451
91,350
91,400
15,156
10,501
15,156
13,462
91,400
91,450
15,167
10,507
15,167
13,473
91,450
91,500
15,178
10,513
15,178
13,484
91,500
91,550
15,189
10,519
15,189
13,495
91,550
91,600
15,200
10,525
15,200
13,506
91,600
91,650
15,211
10,531
15,211
13,517
91,650
91,700
15,222
10,537
15,222
13,528
91,700
91,750
15,233
10,543
15,233
13,539
91,750
91,800
15,244
10,549
15,244
13,550
91,800
91,850
15,255
10,555
15,255
13,561
91,850
91,900
15,266
10,561
15,266
13,572
91,900
91,950
15,277
10,567
15,277
13,583
91,950
92,000
15,288
10,573
15,288
13,594
92,000
92,000
92,050
15,299
10,579
15,299
13,605
92,050
92,100
15,310
10,585
15,310
13,616
92,100
92,150
15,321
10,591
15,321
13,627
92,150
92,200
15,332
10,597
15,332
13,638
92,200
92,250
15,343
10,603
15,343
13,649
92,250
92,300
15,354
10,609
15,354
13,660
92,300
92,350
15,365
10,615
15,365
13,671
92,350
92,400
15,376
10,621
15,376
13,682
92,400
92,450
15,387
10,627
15,387
13,693
92,450
92,500
15,398
10,633
15,398
13,704
92,500
92,550
15,409
10,639
15,409
13,715
92,550
92,600
15,420
10,645
15,420
13,726
92,600
92,650
15,431
10,651
15,431
13,737
92,650
92,700
15,442
10,657
15,442
13,748
92,700
92,750
15,453
10,663
15,453
13,759
92,750
92,800
15,464
10,669
15,464
13,770
92,800
92,850
15,475
10,675
15,475
13,781
92,850
92,900
15,486
10,681
15,486
13,792
92,900
92,950
15,497
10,687
15,497
13,803
92,950
93,000
15,508
10,693
15,508
13,814
93,000
93,000
93,050
15,519
10,699
15,519
13,825
93,050
93,100
15,530
10,705
15,530
13,836
93,100
93,150
15,541
10,711
15,541
13,847
93,150
93,200
15,552
10,717
15,552
13,858
93,200
93,250
15,563
10,723
15,563
13,869
93,250
93,300
15,574
10,729
15,574
13,880
93,300
93,350
15,585
10,735
15,585
13,891
93,350
93,400
15,596
10,741
15,596
13,902
93,400
93,450
15,607
10,747
15,607
13,913
93,450
93,500
15,618
10,753
15,618
13,924
93,500
93,550
15,629
10,759
15,629
13,935
93,550
93,600
15,640
10,765
15,640
13,946
93,600
93,650
15,651
10,771
15,651
13,957
93,650
93,700
15,662
10,777
15,662
13,968
93,700
93,750
15,673
10,783
15,673
13,979
93,750
93,800
15,684
10,789
15,684
13,990
93,800
93,850
15,695
10,795
15,695
14,001
93,850
93,900
15,706
10,801
15,706
14,012
93,900
93,950
15,717
10,807
15,717
14,023
93,950
94,000
15,728
10,813
15,728
14,034
94,000
94,000
94,050
15,739
10,819
15,739
14,045
94,050
94,100
15,750
10,825
15,750
14,056
94,100
94,150
15,761
10,831
15,761
14,067
94,150
94,200
15,772
10,837
15,772
14,078
94,200
94,250
15,783
10,843
15,783
14,089
94,250
94,300
15,794
10,849
15,794
14,100
94,300
94,350
15,805
10,858
15,805
14,111
94,350
94,400
15,816
10,869
15,816
14,122
94,400
94,450
15,827
10,880
15,827
14,133
94,450
94,500
15,838
10,891
15,838
14,144
94,500
94,550
15,849
10,902
15,849
14,155
94,550
94,600
15,860
10,913
15,860
14,166
94,600
94,650
15,871
10,924
15,871
14,177
94,650
94,700
15,882
10,935
15,882
14,188
94,700
94,750
15,893
10,946
15,893
14,199
94,750
94,800
15,904
10,957
15,904
14,210
94,800
94,850
15,915
10,968
15,915
14,221
94,850
94,900
15,926
10,979
15,926
14,232
94,900
94,950
15,937
10,990
15,937
14,243
94,950
95,000
15,948
11,001
15,948
14,254
95,000
95,000
95,050
15,959
11,012
15,959
14,265
95,050
95,100
15,970
11,023
15,970
14,276
95,100
95,150
15,981
11,034
15,981
14,287
95,150
95,200
15,992
11,045
15,992
14,298
95,200
95,250
16,003
11,056
16,003
14,309
95,250
95,300
16,014
11,067
16,014
14,320
95,300
95,350
16,025
11,078
16,025
14,331
95,350
95,400
16,036
11,089
16,036
14,342
95,400
95,450
16,047
11,100
16,047
14,353
95,450
95,500
16,058
11,111
16,058
14,364
95,500
95,550
16,069
11,122
16,069
14,375
95,550
95,600
16,080
11,133
16,080
14,386
95,600
95,650
16,091
11,144
16,091
14,397
95,650
95,700
16,102
11,155
16,102
14,408
95,700
95,750
16,113
11,166
16,113
14,419
95,750
95,800
16,124
11,177
16,124
14,430
95,800
95,850
16,135
11,188
16,135
14,441
95,850
95,900
16,146
11,199
16,146
14,452
95,900
95,950
16,157
11,210
16,157
14,463
95,950
96,000
16,168
11,221
16,168
14,474
96,000
96,000
96,050
16,179
11,232
16,179
14,485
96,050
96,100
16,190
11,243
16,190
14,496
96,100
96,150
16,201
11,254
16,201
14,507
96,150
96,200
16,212
11,265
16,212
14,518
96,200
96,250
16,223
11,276
16,223
14,529
96,250
96,300
16,234
11,287
16,234
14,540
96,300
96,350
16,245
11,298
16,245
14,551
96,350
96,400
16,256
11,309
16,256
14,562
96,400
96,450
16,267
11,320
16,267
14,573
96,450
96,500
16,278
11,331
16,278
14,584
96,500
96,550
16,289
11,342
16,289
14,595
96,550
96,600
16,300
11,353
16,300
14,606
96,600
96,650
16,311
11,364
16,311
14,617
96,650
96,700
16,322
11,375
16,322
14,628
96,700
96,750
16,333
11,386
16,333
14,639
96,750
96,800
16,344
11,397
16,344
14,650
96,800
96,850
16,355
11,408
16,355
14,661
96,850
96,900
16,366
11,419
16,366
14,672
96,900
96,950
16,377
11,430
16,377
14,683
96,950
97,000
16,388
11,441
16,388
14,694
97,000
97,000
97,050
16,399
11,452
16,399
14,705
97,050
97,100
16,410
11,463
16,410
14,716
97,100
97,150
16,421
11,474
16,421
14,727
97,150
97,200
16,432
11,485
16,432
14,738
97,200
97,250
16,443
11,496
16,443
14,749
97,250
97,300
16,454
11,507
16,454
14,760
97,300
97,350
16,465
11,518
16,465
14,771
97,350
97,400
16,476
11,529
16,476
14,782
97,400
97,450
16,487
11,540
16,487
14,793
97,450
97,500
16,498
11,551
16,498
14,804
97,500
97,550
16,509
11,562
16,509
14,815
97,550
97,600
16,520
11,573
16,520
14,826
97,600
97,650
16,531
11,584
16,531
14,837
97,650
97,700
16,542
11,595
16,542
14,848
97,700
97,750
16,553
11,606
16,553
14,859
97,750
97,800
16,564
11,617
16,564
14,870
97,800
97,850
16,575
11,628
16,575
14,881
97,850
97,900
16,586
11,639
16,586
14,892
97,900
97,950
16,597
11,650
16,597
14,903
97,950
98,000
16,608
11,661
16,608
14,914
98,000
98,000
98,050
16,619
11,672
16,619
14,925
98,050
98,100
16,630
11,683
16,630
14,936
98,100
98,150
16,641
11,694
16,641
14,947
98,150
98,200
16,652
11,705
16,652
14,958
98,200
98,250
16,663
11,716
16,663
14,969
98,250
98,300
16,674
11,727
16,674
14,980
98,300
98,350
16,685
11,738
16,685
14,991
98,350
98,400
16,696
11,749
16,696
15,002
98,400
98,450
16,707
11,760
16,707
15,013
98,450
98,500
16,718
11,771
16,718
15,024
98,500
98,550
16,729
11,782
16,729
15,035
98,550
98,600
16,740
11,793
16,740
15,046
98,600
98,650
16,751
11,804
16,751
15,057
98,650
98,700
16,762
11,815
16,762
15,068
98,700
98,750
16,773
11,826
16,773
15,079
98,750
98,800
16,784
11,837
16,784
15,090
98,800
98,850
16,795
11,848
16,795
15,101
98,850
98,900
16,806
11,859
16,806
15,112
98,900
98,950
16,817
11,870
16,817
15,123
98,950
99,000
16,828
11,881
16,828
15,134
99,000
99,000
99,050
16,839
11,892
16,839
15,145
99,050
99,100
16,850
11,903
16,850
15,156
99,100
99,150
16,861
11,914
16,861
15,167
99,150
99,200
16,872
11,925
16,872
15,178
99,200
99,250
16,883
11,936
16,883
15,189
99,250
99,300
16,894
11,947
16,894
15,200
99,300
99,350
16,905
11,958
16,905
15,211
99,350
99,400
16,916
11,969
16,916
15,222
99,400
99,450
16,927
11,980
16,927
15,233
99,450
99,500
16,938
11,991
16,938
15,244
99,500
99,550
16,949
12,002
16,949
15,255
99,550
99,600
16,960
12,013
16,960
15,266
99,600
99,650
16,971
12,024
16,971
15,277
99,650
99,700
16,982
12,035
16,982
15,288
99,700
99,750
16,993
12,046
16,993
15,299
99,750
99,800
17,004
12,057
17,004
15,310
99,800
99,850
17,015
12,068
17,015
15,321
99,850
99,900
17,026
12,079
17,026
15,332
99,900
99,950
17,037
12,090
17,037
15,343
99,950
100,000
17,048
12,101
17,048
15,354
$100,000
or over
use the Tax
Computation
Worksheet
2024 Tax Computation Worksheet—Line 16
See the instructions for line 16 to see if you must use the worksheet below to figure your tax.
Note. If you are required to use this worksheet to figure the tax on an amount from another form or worksheet, such as the Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet, the Schedule D Tax Worksheet, Schedule J, Form 8615, or the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet, enter the amount from that form or worksheet in column (a) of the row that applies to the amount you are looking up. Enter the result on the appropriate line of the form or worksheet that you are completing.
Section A—Use if your filing status is Single. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter the result here and on the entry space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $100,525
$
× 22% (0.22)
$
$ 4,947.00
$
Over $100,525 but not over $191,950
$
× 24% (0.24)
$
$ 6,957.50
$
Over $191,950 but not over $243,725
$
× 32% (0.32)
$
$ 22,313.50
$
Over $243,725 but not over $609,350
$
× 35% (0.35)
$
$ 29,625.25
$
Over $609,350
$
× 37% (0.37)
$
$ 41,812.25
$
Section B—Use if your filing status is Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter the result here and on the entry space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $201,050
$
× 22% (0.22)
$
$ 9,894.00
$
Over $201,050 but not over $383,900
$
× 24% (0.24)
$
$ 13,915.00
$
Over $383,900 but not over $487,450
$
× 32% (0.32)
$
$ 44,627.00
$
Over $487,450 but not over $731,200
$
× 35% (0.35)
$
$ 59,250.50
$
Over $731,200
$
× 37% (0.37)
$
$ 73,874.50
$
Section C—Use if your filing status is Married filing separately. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter the result here and on the entry space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $100,525
$
× 22% (0.22)
$
$ 4,947.00
$
Over $100,525 but not over $191,950
$
× 24% (0.24)
$
$ 6,957.50
$
Over $191,950 but not over $243,725
$
× 32% (0.32)
$
$ 22,313.50
$
Over $243,725 but not over $365,600
$
× 35% (0.35)
$
$ 29,625.25
$
Over $365,600
$
× 37% (0.37)
$
$ 36,937.25
$
Section D—Use if your filing status is Head of household. Complete the row below that applies to you.
Taxable income.
If line 15 is—
(a)
Enter the amount from line 15
(b)
Multiplication amount
(c)
Multiply
(a) by (b)
(d)
Subtraction amount
Tax.
Subtract (d) from (c). Enter the result here and on the entry space on line 16.
At least $100,000 but not over $100,500
$
× 22% (0.22)
$
$ 6,641.00
$
Over $100,500 but not over $191,950
$
× 24% (0.24)
$
$ 8,651.00
$
Over $191,950 but not over $243,700
$
× 32% (0.32)
$
$ 24,007.00
$
Over $243,700 but not over $609,350
$
× 35% (0.35)
$
$ 31,318.00
$
Over $609,350
$
× 37% (0.37)
$
$ 43,505.00
$
General Information
Introduction
The IRS Mission. Provide America's taxpayers top-quality service by helping them understand and meet their tax responsibilities and enforce the law with integrity and fairness to all.
Voter Registration
Do you need to check or update your voter registration? Visit Vote.gov to confirm with your state election office.
How To Avoid Common Mistakes
Mistakes can delay your refund or result in notices being sent to you. One of the best ways to file an accurate return is to file electronically. Tax software does the math for you and will help you avoid mistakes. Direct File and Free File provide eligible taxpayers the ability to file their taxes electronically for free. See IRS.gov/DirectFile and IRS.gov/FreeFile for details and to see if you are eligible.
File your return on a standard size sheet of paper. Cutting the paper may cause problems in processing your return.
Make sure you entered the correct name and social security number (SSN) for each dependent you claim in the Dependents section. Check that each dependent's name and SSN agrees with the dependent’s social security card. For each child under age 17 who is a qualifying child for the child tax credit or each dependent who qualifies you for the credit for other dependents, make sure you checked the appropriate box in column (4) of the Dependents section.
Check your math, especially for the child tax credit, earned income credit (EIC), taxable social security benefits, total income, itemized deductions or standard deduction, taxable income, total tax, federal income tax withheld, and refund or amount you owe.
Be sure you used the correct method to figure your tax. See the instructions for line 16.
Be sure to enter your SSN in the space provided on page 1 of Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you are married filing a joint or separate return, also enter your spouse's SSN. Be sure to enter your SSN in the space next to your name. Check that your name and SSN agree with your social security card.
Make sure your name and address are correct. Enter your (and your spouse's) name in the same order as shown on your last return.
If you live in an apartment, be sure to include your apartment number in your address.
If you are taking the standard deduction, see the instructions for line 12 to be sure you entered the correct amount.
If you received capital gain distributions but weren't required to file Schedule D, make sure you checked the box on line 7.
If you are taking the EIC, be sure you used the correct column of the EIC Table for your filing status and the number of qualifying children you have who have valid SSNs.
Remember to sign and date Form 1040 or 1040-SR and enter your occupation(s).
Attach your Form(s) W-2 and other required forms and schedules. Put all forms and schedules in the proper order. See Assemble Your Return, earlier.
If you owe tax and are paying by check or money order, be sure to include all the required information on your payment. See the instructions for line 37 for details.
Make sure to check Where Do You File? before mailing your return. Over the next several years, the IRS will be reducing the number of paper tax return processing sites. Because of this, you may need to mail your return to a different address than you have in the past.
Don’t file more than one original return for the same year, even if you haven't gotten your refund or haven't heard from the IRS since you filed. Filing more than one original return for the same year, or sending in more than one copy of the same return (unless we ask you to do so), could delay your refund.
Make sure that if you, your spouse with whom you are filing a joint return, or your dependent was enrolled in Marketplace coverage, and advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for the coverage, that you attach Form 8962. For tax years other than 2020, you may have to repay excess advance payments, even if someone else enrolled you, your spouse, or your dependent in the Marketplace coverage. Excess advance payments may also have to be repaid if you enrolled someone in Marketplace coverage, you don't claim that individual as a dependent, and no one else claims that individual as a dependent. See the instructions for Schedule 2, line 1a, and the Instructions for Form 8962. You or whoever enrolled you should have received Form 1095-A from the Marketplace with information about who was covered and any advance payments of the premium tax credit.
Innocent Spouse Relief
Generally, both you and your spouse are each responsible for paying the full amount of tax, interest, and penalties on your joint return. However, you may qualify for relief from liability for tax on a joint return if (a) there is an understatement of tax because your spouse omitted income or claimed false deductions or credits; (b) you are divorced, separated, or no longer living with your spouse; or (c) given all the facts and circumstances, it wouldn't be fair to hold you liable for the tax. You may also qualify for relief if you were a married resident of a community property state but didn't file a joint return and are now liable for an unpaid or understated tax. File Form 8857 to request relief. In some cases, Form 8857 may need to be filed within 2 years of the date on which the IRS first attempted to collect the tax from you. Don’t file Form 8857 with your Form 1040 or 1040-SR. For more information, see Pub. 971 and Form 8857, or you can call the Innocent Spouse office toll free at 855-851-2009.
Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Payments for 2025
You can use the Tax Withholding Estimator instead of Pub. 505 or the worksheets included with Form W-4 or W-4P to determine whether you need to have your withholding increased or decreased.
In general, you don’t have to make estimated tax payments if you expect that your 2025 Form 1040 or 1040-SR will show a tax refund or a tax balance due of less than $1,000. If your total estimated tax for 2025 is $1,000 or more, see Form 1040-ES and Pub. 505 for a worksheet you can use to see if you have to make estimated tax payments. For more details, see Pub. 505.
Secure Your Tax Records From Identity Theft
All taxpayers can now apply for an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). Go to IRS.gov/GetAnIPPIN to request an IP PIN through your online account, file Form 15227 if your AGI on your last filed return is less than $79,000 ($158,000 if married filing jointly), or make an appointment to visit a Taxpayer Assistance Center.
Identity theft occurs when someone uses your personal information, such as your name, social security number (SSN), or other identifying information, without your permission to commit fraud or other crimes. An identity thief may use your SSN to get a job or may file a tax return using your SSN to receive a refund.
To reduce your risk:
Protect your SSN,
Ensure your employer is protecting your SSN, and
Be careful when choosing a tax return preparer.
If your tax records are affected by identity theft and you receive a notice from the IRS, respond right away to the name and phone number printed on the IRS notice or letter. For more information, see Pub. 5027.
If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect you are a victim of tax-related identity theft, visit IRS.gov/IdentityTheft to learn what steps you should take.
Victims of identity theft who are experiencing economic harm or a systemic problem, or are seeking help in resolving tax problems that haven't been resolved through normal channels, may be eligible for Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) assistance. You can reach TAS by calling the National Taxpayer Advocate helpline at 877-777-4778. People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability and who have access to TTY/TDD equipment can call 800-829-4059. Deaf or hard-of-hearing individuals can also contact the IRS through Telecommunications Relay Services at FCC.gov/TRS.
Protect yourself from suspicious emails, texts, and social media messages, phishing schemes, and phone scams.
Phishing is the creation and use of emails, texts, social media messages, and websites designed to mimic legitimate business communication and websites. The most common form is sending an email to a user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering private information that will be used for identity theft.
The IRS doesn't initiate contact with or request detailed personal information from taxpayers via emails, texts, or social media messages. Also, the IRS doesn't ask taxpayers for the PIN numbers, passwords, or similar secret access information for their credit card, bank, or other financial accounts.
If you receive an unsolicited email claiming to be from the IRS, forward the message to phishing@irs.gov. For more information, go to IRS.gov/Phishing. You may also report misuse of the IRS name, logo, forms, or other IRS property to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration toll free at 800-366-4484. People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability and who have access to TTY/TDD equipment can call 800-877-8339. You can report suspicious emails, texts, and social media messages to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) at ftc.gov/complaint. You can contact them at www.ftc.gov/idtheft or 877-IDTHEFT (877-438-4338). If you have been the victim of identity theft, see www.IdentityTheft.gov and Pub. 5027. People who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability and who have access to TTY/TDD equipment can call 866-653-4261.
Visit IRS.gov and enter “identity theft” in the search box to learn more about identity theft and how to reduce your risk.
You can report a phone scam to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration at IRS Impersonation Scam Reporting or the FTC using the FTC Complaint Assistant at FTC.gov. Add “IRS Telephone Scam” in the notes.
How Do You Make a Gift To Reduce Debt Held By the Public?
If you wish to do so, go to Pay.gov and make a contribution by credit card, debit card, PayPal, checking account, or savings account. If you prefer, you can make a check payable to the “Bureau of the Fiscal Service” and send it to: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Attn: Department G, P.O. Box 2188, Parkersburg, WV 26106-2188. Or you can enclose the check with your income tax return when you file. In the memo section of the check, make a note that it is a gift to reduce the debt held by the public. Don’t add your gift to any tax you may owe. See the instructions for line 37 for details on how to pay any tax you owe. For information on how to make this type of gift online, go to TreasuryDirect.gov/Help-Center/Public-Debt-FAQs/#DebtFinance and click on “How do you make a contribution to reduce the debt?”
You may be able to deduct this gift on your 2025 tax return.
How Long Should Records Be Kept?
Keep a copy of your tax return, worksheets you used, and records of all items appearing on it (such as Forms W-2 and 1099) until the statute of limitations runs out for that return. Usually, this is 3 years from the date the return was due or filed or 2 years from the date the tax was paid, whichever is later. You should keep some records longer. For example, keep property records (including those on your home) as long as they are needed to figure the basis of the original or replacement property. For more details, see chapter 1 of Pub. 17.
Amended Return
File Form 1040-X to change a return you already filed. Generally, to timely claim a refund on your amended return, Form 1040-X must be filed within 3 years after the date the original return was filed or within 2 years after the date the tax was paid, whichever is later. But you may have more time to file Form 1040-X if you live in a federally declared disaster area or you are physically or mentally unable to manage your financial affairs. See Pub. 556 for details.
You can file Form 1040-X electronically with tax filing software to amend Forms 1040 and 1040-SR. See IRS.gov/Filing/Amended-Return-Frequently-Asked-Questions for more information.
Use the Where's My Amended Return application on IRS.gov to track the status of your amended return. It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed it to show up in our system.
Need a Copy of Your Tax Return Information?
Tax return transcripts are free and are generally used to validate income and tax filing status for mortgage applications, student and small business loan applications, and during tax return preparation. To get a free transcript:
Access your online account at IRS.gov/Account,
Visit IRS.gov/Transcript,
Use Form 4506-T or 4506T-EZ, or
Call us at 800-908-9946.
If you need a copy of your actual tax return, use Form 4506. There is a fee for each return requested. See Form 4506 for the current fee. If your main home, principal place of business, or tax records are located in a federally declared disaster area, this fee will be waived.
Past Due Returns
If you or someone you know needs to file past due tax returns, go to Filing past due returns or IRS.gov/Individuals for help in filing those returns. Send the return to the address that applies to you in the latest Form 1040 and 1040-SR instructions. For example, if you are filing a 2021 return in 2025, use the address at the end of these instructions. However, if you got an IRS notice, mail the return to the address in the notice.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return.
After receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or other government payment statements (Form 1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation.
Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.
Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file individual federal tax returns online—for free—directly and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for taxpayers in participating states who have relatively simple tax returns reporting certain types of income and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Direct File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a participating state, Direct File guides you to a state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile for more information, program updates, and frequently asked questions.
Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call 800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.
TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return.
Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your tax filing needs.
The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the earned income credit (EIC).
The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you get an employer identification number (EIN) at no cost.
The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App) makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on your repayments and account balance.
The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on current events and changes in tax law.
IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.
IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.
IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publications. You will find details on the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your questions.
You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
Required to sign the return, and
Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs the return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns for others should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services Online.
The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents, and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax Statement.
Business tax account.
If you are a sole proprietor, a partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/businessaccount for more information.
IRS social media.
Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.
Youtube.com/irsvideos.
Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages.
You can find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t your native language.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service.
The IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Service is a federally funded program and is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 350 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities.
Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille, large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference.
Form 9000, Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.
Standard Print.
Large Print.
Braille.
Audio (MP3).
Plain Text File (TXT).
Braille Ready File (BRF).
Disasters.
Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms.
You'll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s) online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of your documents to support your submission. Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook format.
Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only).
Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.
View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
See payment plan details or apply for a new payment plan.
Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
Access your tax records, including key data from your most recent tax return, and transcripts.
View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.
View your address on file or manage your communication preferences.
Get a transcript of your return.
With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account.
This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit.
The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity theft issues.
Tax-related identity theft happens when someone steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related identity theft, you can learn what steps you should take.
Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.
Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment.
Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.
IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.
Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an approved payment processor to pay online or by phone.
Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at a participating retail store.
Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.
Note.
The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and faster than mailing in a check or money order.
What if I can’t pay now?
Go to IRS.gov/Payments for more information about your options.
Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if you can settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return.
Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return.
Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed your amended return for it to show up in our system, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received.
Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool.
You may be able use the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP.
You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040), Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters, in English until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC.
Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
Interest and Penalties
You don’t have to figure the amount of any interest or penalties you may owe. We will send you a bill for any amount due.
If you choose to include interest or penalties (other than the estimated tax penalty) with your payment, identify and enter the amount in the bottom margin of Form 1040 or 1040-SR, page 2. Don’t include interest or penalties (other than the estimated tax penalty) in the amount you owe on line 37. For more information on the estimated tax penalty, see Line 38, earlier.
Interest
We will charge you interest on taxes not paid by their due date, even if an extension of time to file is granted. We will also charge you interest on penalties imposed for failure to file, negligence, fraud, substantial or gross valuation misstatements, substantial understatements of tax, and reportable transaction understatements. Interest is charged on the penalty from the due date of the return (including extensions).
Penalties
Late filing.
If you don’t file your return by the due date (including extensions), the penalty is usually 5% of the amount due for each month or part of a month your return is late, unless you have a reasonable explanation. If you have a reasonable explanation for filing late, include it with your return. The penalty can be as much as 25% of the tax due. The penalty is 15% per month, up to a maximum of 75%, if the failure to file is fraudulent. If your return is more than 60 days late, the minimum penalty will be $510 or the amount of any tax you owe, whichever is smaller.
Late payment of tax.
If you pay your taxes late, the penalty is usually ½ of 1% of the unpaid amount for each month or part of a month the tax isn't paid. The penalty can be as much as 25% of the unpaid amount. It applies to any unpaid tax on the return. This penalty is in addition to interest charges on late payments.
Frivolous return.
In addition to any other penalties, the law imposes a penalty of $5,000 for filing a frivolous return. A frivolous return is one that doesn't contain information needed to figure the correct tax or shows a substantially incorrect tax because you take a frivolous position or desire to delay or interfere with the tax laws. This includes altering or striking out the preprinted language above the space where you sign. For a list of positions identified as frivolous, see Notice 2010-33, 2010-17 I.R.B. 609, available at IRS.gov/irb/2010-17_IRB#NOT-2010-33.
Other.
Other penalties can be imposed for, among other things, negligence, substantial understatement of tax, reportable transaction understatements, filing an erroneous refund claim, and fraud. Criminal penalties may be imposed for willful failure to file, tax evasion, making a false statement, or identity theft. See Pub. 17 for details on some of these penalties.
Refund Information
To check the status of your refund, go to IRS.gov/Refunds or use the free IRS2Go app, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Information about your refund will generally be available within 24 hours after the IRS receives your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return. But if you filed Form 8379 with your return, allow 14 weeks (11 weeks if you filed electronically) before checking your refund status.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February 2025 for returns that claim the earned income credit or the additional child tax credit. This delay applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
To use Where's My Refund, have a copy of your tax return handy. You will need to enter the following information from your return:
Your social security number (or individual taxpayer identification number),
Your filing status, and
The exact whole dollar amount of your refund.
Where's My Refund will provide an actual personalized refund date as soon as the IRS processes your tax return and approves your refund.
Updates to refund status are made once a day—usually at night.
If you don’t have Internet access, you can call 800-829-1954, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for automated refund information. Our phone and walk-in assistors can research the status of your refund only if it's been 21 days or more since you filed electronically or more than 6 weeks since you mailed your paper return.
Don’t send in a copy of your return unless asked to do so.
To get a refund, you must generally file your return within 3 years from the date the return was due (including extensions).
Where's My Refund doesn't track refunds that are claimed on an amended tax return.
Refund information is also available in Spanish at IRS.gov/Spanish and 800-829-1954.
Instructions for Schedule 1 Additional Income and Adjustments to Income
General Instructions
Use Schedule 1 to report income or adjustments to income that can’t be entered directly on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Additional income is entered on Schedule 1, Part I. The amount on line 10 of Schedule 1 is entered on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 8.
Adjustments to income are entered on Schedule 1, Part II. The amount on line 26 is entered on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 10.
Form(s) 1099-K
If, for tax year 2024, you received a Form(s) 1099-K that shows payments that were included in error (for example, money for gifts or reimbursements) or for personal items that you sold at a loss (for example, an old refrigerator), enter the amount that was included in error or for personal items sold at a loss in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1.
If the entire amount reported to you on Form(s)1099-K was in error or for personal items sold at a loss, enter the total amount from Form(s) 1099-K, box 1(a), in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1.
If only some of the amount reported to you on Form(s) 1099-K in box 1(a) was in error or for personal items sold at a loss, only enter the amount that was in error or for personal items sold at a loss in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1. The remaining amounts reported to you on Form(s) 1099-K should be reported elsewhere on your return depending on the nature of the transactions.
If you received more than one incorrect Form(s) 1099-K, with amounts reported in error or for personal items sold at a loss, add the incorrect amounts together and enter the total incorrect amount in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1. The remaining amounts reported to you on Form(s) 1099-K in box 1(a) should be reported elsewhere on your return depending on the nature of the transactions.
If you received a Form 1099-K for a personal item that you sold at a gain, don't report this amount in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1; instead report it as you would report any other capital gain on Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Example–Incorrect Form 1099-K.
You received a Form 1099-K that incorrectly showed $800 of payments to you in box 1(a). You would enter $800 in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1.
Example–Personal item sold at a loss.
You bought a couch for $1,000 and sold it through a third-party vendor for $700, which was reported in box 1(a) of your Form 1099-K. You would enter $700 in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1.
Example–Personal items sold at a loss and a gain.
In addition to selling your couch for $700, you also sold a handbag that you bought for $800 and sold for $1,200. Your Form 1099-K shows $1,900 in box 1(a). You would enter $700 in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1 for your loss on selling the couch and the remaining $400 of gain from the sale of the handbag would be reported as capital gain on Form 8949 and Schedule D.
Example–Multiple incorrect Form(s) 1099-K.
You received a Form 1099-K that incorrectly showed $800 of payments to you in box 1(a). You also received a Form 1099-K that reported $6,000 in box 1(a) but $700 of that amount was reported in error. You would enter $1,500 in the entry space at the top of Schedule 1. The remaining $5,300 should be reported elsewhere on your return depending on the nature of the transactions.
Additional Income
Line 1
Taxable Refunds, Credits, or Offsets of State and Local Income Taxes
None of your refund is taxable if, in the year you paid the tax, you either (a) didn't itemize deductions, or (b) elected to deduct state and local general sales taxes instead of state and local income taxes.
If you received a refund, credit, or offset of state or local income taxes in 2024, you may be required to report this amount. If you didn't receive a Form 1099-G, check with the government agency that made the payments to you. Your 2024 Form 1099-G may have been made available to you only in an electronic format, and you will need to get instructions from the agency to retrieve this document. Report any taxable refund you received even if you didn't receive Form 1099-G.
If you chose to apply part or all of the refund to your 2024 estimated state or local income tax, the amount applied is treated as received in 2024. If the refund was for a tax you paid in 2023 and you deducted state and local income taxes on your 2023 Schedule A, use the State and Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet in these instructions to see if any of your refund is taxable.
Exception.
See Itemized Deduction Recoveries in Pub. 525 instead of using the State and Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet in these instructions if any of the following applies.
You received a refund in 2024 that is for a tax year other than 2023.
You received a refund other than an income tax refund, such as a general sales tax or real property tax refund, in 2024 of an amount deducted or credit claimed in an earlier year.
You had taxable income on your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15, but no tax on your Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, because of the 0% tax rate on net capital gain and qualified dividends in certain situations.
Your 2023 state and local income tax refund is more than your 2023 state and local income tax deduction minus the amount you could have deducted as your 2023 state and local general sales taxes.
You made your last payment of 2023 estimated state or local income tax in 2024.
You owed alternative minimum tax in 2023.
You couldn't use the full amount of credits you were entitled to in 2023 because the total credits were more than the amount shown on your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.
You could be claimed as a dependent by someone else in 2023.
You received a refund because of a jointly filed state or local income tax return, but you aren't filing a joint 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR with the same person.
Lines 2a and 2b
Alimony Received
Line 2a
Enter amounts received as alimony or separate maintenance pursuant to a divorce or separation agreement entered into on or before December 31, 2018, unless that agreement was changed after December 31, 2018, to expressly provide that alimony received isn't included in your income. Alimony received is not included in your income if you entered into a divorce or separation agreement after December 31, 2018. If you are including alimony in your income, you must let the person who made the payments know your social security number. If you don’t, you may have to pay a penalty. For more details, see Pub. 504.
If you are including alimony payments from more than one divorce or separation agreement in your income, enter the total of all alimony received on line 2a.
Line 2b
On line 2b, enter the month and year of your original divorce or separation agreement that relates to the alimony payment, if any, reported on line 2a.
If you have alimony payments from more than one divorce or separation agreement, on line 2b enter the month and year of the divorce or separation agreement for which you received the most income. Attach a statement listing the month and year of the other agreements.
Line 3
Business Income or (Loss)
If you operated a business or practiced your profession as a sole proprietor, report your income and expenses on Schedule C.
State and Local Income Tax Refund Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 1
Tax Tables
Be sure you have read the
Exception
in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet instead of Pub. 525 to figure if any of your refund is taxable.
1.
Enter the income tax refund from Form(s) 1099-G (or similar statement). But don’t enter more than the amount of your state and local income taxes shown on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5d
1.
_____
2.
Is the amount of state and local income taxes (or general sales taxes), real estate taxes, and personal property taxes paid in 2023 (generally, this is the amount reported on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5d) more than the amount on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5e?
No.
Enter the amount from line 1 on line 3 and go to line 4.
2.
_____
Yes.
Subtract the amount on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5e, from the amount of state and local income taxes (or general sales taxes), real estate taxes, and personal property taxes paid in 2023 (generally, this is the amount reported on your 2023 Schedule A, line 5d).
3.
Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 2?
No.
None of your refund is taxable.
3.
_____
Yes.
Subtract line 2 from line 1.
4.
Enter your total itemized deductions from your 2023 Schedule A, line 17.
4.
_____
Note. If the filing status on your 2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR was married filing separately and your spouse itemized deductions in 2023, skip lines 5 through 7, enter the amount from line 4 on line 8, and go to line 9.
5.
Enter the amount shown below for the filing status claimed on your
2023 Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Single or married filing separately—$13,850
Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$27,700
Head of household—$20,800
5.
_____
6.
Check any boxes that apply.*
You were born before January 2, 1959.
You are blind.
Spouse was born before January 2, 1959.
Spouse is blind.
No boxes checked. Enter -0-.
Multiply the number of boxes checked by $1,500 ($1,850 if your 2023 filing status was single or head of household).
6.
_____
*If your filing status is married filing separately, you can check the boxes for your spouse only if your spouse had no income, isn't filing a return, and can't be claimed as a dependent on another person's return.
7.
Add lines 5 and 6
7.
_____
8.
Is the amount on line 7 less than the amount on line 4?
No.
None of your refund is taxable.
Yes.
Subtract line 7 from line 4
8.
_____
9.
Taxable part of your refund. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 8 here and on Schedule 1, line 1
9.
_____
Line 4
Other Gains or (Losses)
If you sold or exchanged assets used in a trade or business, see the Instructions for Form 4797.
Line 7
Unemployment Compensation
You should receive a Form 1099-G showing in box 1 the total unemployment compensation paid to you in 2024. Report this amount on line 7.
If the amount reported in box 1 of your Form(s) 1099-G is incorrect, report on line 7 only the actual amount of unemployment compensation paid to you in 2024.
If you made contributions to a governmental unemployment compensation program or to a governmental paid family leave program and you aren't itemizing deductions, reduce the amount you report on line 7 by those contributions. If you are itemizing deductions, see the instructions on Form 1099-G.
If you received an overpayment of unemployment compensation in 2024 and you repaid any of it in 2024, subtract the amount you repaid from the total amount you received. Enter the result on line 7. Also enter “Repaid” and the amount you repaid on the dotted line next to line 7. If, in 2024, you repaid more than $3,000 of unemployment compensation that you included in gross income in an earlier year, see Repayments in Pub. 525 for details on how to report the payment.
If you received unemployment compensation in 2024, your state may issue an electronic Form 1099-G instead of it being mailed to you. Check your state's unemployment compensation website for more information.
Lines 8a Through 8z
Other Income
Do not report on lines 8a through 8z any income from self-employment or fees received as a notary public. Instead, you must use Schedule C, even if you don’t have any business expenses. Also don’t report on lines 8a through 8z any nonemployee compensation shown on Form 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, or 1099-K (unless it isn't self-employment income, such as income from a hobby or a sporadic activity). Instead, see the Instructions for Recipient included on Form 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, or 1099-K to find out where to report that income. For more information about what is being reported on Form 1099-K, see the Instructions for Payee included on that form and visit IRS.gov/1099K.
Line 8a
Net operating loss (NOL) deduction.
Enter any deduction for an NOL from an earlier year. Enter the amount in the preprinted parentheses (as a negative number). The amount of your deduction will be subtracted from the other amounts of income listed on lines 8b through 8z. See the Instructions for Form 172 for details.
Line 8b
Gambling.
Enter any gambling winnings. Gambling winnings include lotteries, raffles, a lump-sum payment from the sale of a right to receive future lottery payments, etc. For details on gambling losses, see the instructions for Schedule A, line 16.
Attach Form(s) W-2G to Form 1040 or 1040-SR if any federal income tax was withheld.
Line 8c
Cancellation of debt.
Enter any canceled debt. Canceled debt may be shown in box 2 of Form 1099-C. However, part or all of your income from cancellation of debt may be nontaxable. See Pub. 4681 or go to IRS.gov and enter “canceled debt” or “foreclosure” in the search box.
Line 8d
Foreign earned income exclusion and housing exclusion from Form 2555.
Enter the amount of your foreign earned income and housing exclusion from Form 2555, line 45. Enter the amount in the preprinted parentheses (as a negative number). The amount from Form 2555, line 45, will be subtracted from the other amounts of income listed on lines 8a through 8c and lines 8e through 8z. Complete the Foreign Earned Income Tax Worksheet if you enter an amount on Form 2555, line 45.
Line 8e
Income from Form 8853.
Enter the total of the amounts from Form 8853, lines 8, 12, and 26. See Pub. 969.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxable distribution from an Archer MSA or Medicare Advantage MSA. See the Instructions for Form 8853.
Line 8f
Income from Form 8889.
Enter the total of the amounts from Form 8889, lines 16 and 20.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxable distribution from a health savings account. See the Instructions for Form 8889.
Line 8h
Jury duty pay.
Enter any jury duty pay and see the instructions for line 24a.
Line 8i
Prizes and awards.
Enter prizes and awards but see the instructions for line 8m, Olympic and Paralympic medals and USOC prize money, later.
Line 8j
Activity not engaged in for profit income.
See Pub. 525.
Line 8k
Stock options.
Enter any income from the exercise of stock options not otherwise reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1h.
Line 8l
Income from the rental of personal property if you engaged in the rental for profit but were not in the business of renting such property.
Also see the instructions for line 24b, later.
Line 8m
Olympic and Paralympic medals and USOC prize money.
The value of Olympic and Paralympic medals and the amount of United States Olympic Committee (USOC) prize money you receive on account of your participation in the Olympic or Paralympic Games may be nontaxable. These amounts should be reported to you in box 3 of Form 1099-MISC. To see if these amounts are nontaxable, first figure your adjusted gross income, including the amount of your medals and prize money.
If your adjusted gross income is not more than $1,000,000 ($500,000 if married filing separately), these amounts are nontaxable and you should include the amount in box 3 of Form 1099-MISC on line 8m, then subtract it by including it on line 24c.
Line 8n
Section 951(a) inclusion.
Section 951 generally requires that a U.S. shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation include in income its pro rata share of the corporation's subpart F income and its amount determined under section 956. Enter on line 8n from your Forms 5471 the sum of any amounts reported on Schedule I, lines 1a through h and line 2. Remember to attach copies of your Forms 5471 to your return.
Line 8o
Section 951A(a) inclusion.
Section 951A generally requires that a U.S. shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation include in income its global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). Enter on line 8o from your Forms 8992 the sum of any amounts reported on Part II, line 5. Remember to attach copies of your Forms 8992.
If you made a section 962 election and have an income inclusion under section 951 or 951A, do not report that income on line 8n or 8o, as applicable. Instead, report the tax with respect to the section 962 election on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, and attach a statement showing how you figured the tax that includes the gross amounts of section 951 and section 951A income.
Line 8p
461(l) excess business loss adjustment.
Enter the amount of your excess business loss from Form 461, line 16.
Line 8q
Taxable distributions from an ABLE account.
Distributions from this type of account may be taxable if (a) they are more than the designated beneficiary's qualified disability expenses, and (b) they were not included in a qualified rollover. See Pub. 907 for more information.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxable distribution from an ABLE account. See the Instructions for Form 5329.
Line 8r
Scholarship and fellowship grants not reported on Form W-2.
Enter the amount of scholarship and fellowship grants not reported on Form W-2. However, if you were a degree candidate, include on line 8r only the amounts you used for expenses other than tuition and course-related expenses. For example, amounts used for room, board, and travel must be reported on line 8r.
Line 8s
Nontaxable amount of Medicaid waiver payments included on Form 1040, line 1a or 1d.
Certain Medicaid waiver payments you received for caring for someone living in your home with you may be nontaxable. Your nontaxable Medicaid waiver payments should be reported to you on Form(s) W-2 in box 12, Code II. If nontaxable payments were reported to you in box 1 of Form(s) W-2, report the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a. If you did not receive a Form W-2 for nontaxable payments, or you received nontaxable payments that you didn’t report on line 1a, and choose to include nontaxable amounts in earned income for purposes of claiming a credit or other tax benefit, report the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1d. Then, on line 8s enter the total amount of the nontaxable payments reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a or 1d, in the entry space in the preprinted parentheses (as a negative number). For more information about these payments, see Pub. 525.
Line 8t
Pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a nongovernmental section 457 plan.
Enter the amount that you received as a pension or annuity from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or a nongovernmental 457 plan. This may be shown in box 11 of Form W-2. If you received such an amount but box 11 is blank, contact your employer or the payer for the amount received.
Line 8u
Wages earned while incarcerated.
Enter the amount that you received for services performed while an inmate in a penal institution. You may receive Form(s) W-2 or Form(s) 1099.
Line 8v
Digital assets not reported elsewhere.
If, in 2024, you received ordinary income in connection with digital assets that isn't reported elsewhere on your return (for example, digital assets, such as income from forks, staking, or mining, which aren't wages reported on line 1a or capital gain or loss reported on Form 8949 and Schedule D), report this income on line 8v. Don’t report a gift or inheritance of digital assets on line 8v. For more information, go to IRS.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-Self-Employed/Digital-Assets.
Line 8z
Other income.
Use line 8z to report any taxable income not reported elsewhere on your return or other schedules. List the type and amount of income. If necessary, include a statement showing the required information. For more details, see Miscellaneous Income in Pub. 525.
Examples of income to report on line 8z include the following.
Reimbursements or other amounts received for items deducted in an earlier year, such as medical expenses, real estate taxes, general sales taxes, or home mortgage interest. See Recoveries in Pub. 525 for details on how to figure the amount to report.
Reemployment trade adjustment assistance (RTAA) payments. These payments should be shown in box 5 of Form 1099-G.
Loss on certain corrective distributions of excess deferrals. See Retirement Plan Contributions in Pub. 525.
Dividends on insurance policies if they exceed the total of all net premiums you paid for the contract.
Recapture of a charitable contribution deduction relating to the contribution of a fractional interest in tangible personal property. See Fractional Interest in Tangible Personal Property in Pub. 526. Interest and an additional 10% tax apply to the amount of the recapture. See the instructions for Schedule 2, line 17g.
Recapture of a charitable contribution deduction if the charitable organization disposes of the donated property within 3 years of the contribution. See Recapture if no exempt use in Pub. 526.
Taxable part of disaster relief payments. See Pub. 525 to figure the taxable part, if any. If any of your disaster relief payment is taxable, attach a statement showing the total payment received and how you figured the taxable part.
Taxable distributions from a Coverdell education savings account (ESA) or a qualified tuition program (QTP). Distributions from these accounts may be taxable if (a) in the case of distributions from a QTP, they are more than the qualified higher education expenses of the designated beneficiary in 2024 or, in the case of distributions from an ESA, they are more than the qualified education expenses of the designated beneficiary in 2024; and (b) they were not included in a qualified rollover. Nontaxable distributions from these accounts don’t have to be reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR. This includes rollovers and qualified higher education expenses refunded to a student from a QTP that were recontributed to a QTP with the same designated beneficiary generally within 60 days after the date of refund. See Pub. 970.
You may have to pay an additional tax if you received a taxable distribution from a Coverdell ESA or a QTP. See the Instructions for Form 5329.
Nontaxable income.
Don’t report any nontaxable income on line 8z. Examples of nontaxable income include the following.
Child support.
Payments you received to help you pay your mortgage loan under the HFA Hardest Hit Fund or the Homeowner Assistance Fund.
Life insurance proceeds received because of someone's death (other than from certain employer-owned life insurance contracts).
Gifts and bequests. You may have to report information on your gifts or bequests on Form 3520, Part IV, if you received:
A gift or bequest from a foreign individual or foreign estate (including foreign persons related to that foreign individual or foreign estate) totaling more than $100,000; or
Amounts totaling more than $19,570 from a foreign corporation or foreign partnership (including foreign persons related to such foreign corporations or foreign partnerships) that you treated as gifts.
See the Instructions for Form 3520.
Adjustments to Income
Line 11
Educator Expenses
If you were an eligible educator in 2024, you can deduct on line 11 up to $300 of qualified expenses you paid in 2024. If you and your spouse are filing jointly and both of you were eligible educators, the maximum deduction is $600. However, neither spouse can deduct more than $300 of their qualified expenses on line 11. An eligible educator is a kindergarten through grade 12 teacher, instructor, counselor, principal, or aide who worked in a school for at least 900 hours during a school year.
Qualified expenses include ordinary and necessary expenses paid:
For professional development courses you have taken related to the curriculum you teach or to the students you teach; or
In connection with books, supplies, equipment (including computer equipment, software, and services), and other materials used in the classroom.
An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your educational field. A necessary expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your profession as an educator. An expense doesn’t have to be required to be considered necessary.
Qualified expenses include amounts paid or incurred in 2024 for personal protective equipment, disinfectant, and other supplies used for the prevention of the spread of coronavirus.
Qualified expenses don’t include expenses for home schooling or for nonathletic supplies for courses in health or physical education.
You must reduce your qualified expenses by the following amounts.
Excludable U.S. series EE and I savings bond interest from Form 8815.
Nontaxable qualified tuition program earnings or distributions.
Any nontaxable distribution of Coverdell education savings account earnings.
Any reimbursements you received for these expenses that weren’t reported to you in box 1 of your Form W-2.
For more details, use Tax Topic 458 or see Pub. 529.
Line 12
Certain Business Expenses of Reservists, Performing Artists, and Fee-Basis Government Officials
Include the following deductions on
line 12.
Certain business expenses of National Guard and reserve members who traveled more than 100 miles from home to perform services as a National Guard or reserve member.
Performing-arts-related expenses as a qualified performing artist.
Business expenses of fee-basis state or local government officials.
For more details, see Form 2106.
Line 13
Health Savings Account (HSA) Deduction
You may be able to take this deduction if contributions (other than employer contributions, rollovers, and qualified HSA funding distributions from an IRA) were made to your HSA for 2024. See Form 8889.
Line 14
Moving Expenses
You can deduct moving expenses if you are a member of the Armed Forces on active duty and due to a military order you move because of a permanent change of station. Use Tax Topic 455 or see Form 3903.
Line 15
Deductible Part of Self-Employment Tax
If you were self-employed and owe self-employment tax, fill in Schedule SE to figure the amount of your deduction. The deductible part of your self-employment tax is on line 13 of Schedule SE.
Line 16
Self-Employed SEP, SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans
If you were self-employed or a partner, you may be able to take this deduction. See Pub. 560 or, if you were a minister, Pub. 517.
Line 17
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
You may be able to deduct the amount you paid for health insurance (which includes medical, dental, and vision insurance and qualified long-term care insurance) for yourself, your spouse, and your dependents. The insurance can also cover your child who was under age 27 at the end of 2024, even if the child wasn't your dependent. A child includes your son, daughter, stepchild, adopted child, or foster child (defined in Who Qualifies as Your Dependent in the Instructions for Form 1040).
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 17
Tax Tables
Be sure you have read the Exceptions in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet instead of Form 7206 to figure your deduction.
1.
Enter the total amount paid in 2024 for health insurance coverage established under your business
(or the S corporation in which you were a more-than-2% shareholder) for 2024 for you, your spouse, and your dependents. Your insurance can also cover your child who was under age 27 at the end of 2024, even if the child wasn't your dependent. But don’t include amounts for any month you were eligible to participate in an employer-sponsored health plan or amounts paid from retirement plan distributions that were nontaxable because you are a retired public safety officer
1.
_____
2.
Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the business under which the insurance plan is established, minus any deductions on Schedule 1, lines 15 and 16. Don’t include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from self-employment tax
2.
_____
3.
Self-employed health insurance deduction. Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 2 here and on
Schedule 1, line 17. Don’t include this amount in figuring any medical expense deduction on Schedule A
3.
_____
*If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment, don’t enter your net profit. Instead, enter the amount from Schedule SE, line 4b.
**Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it doesn't include capital gain income. If you were a more-than-2% shareholder in the S corporation under which the insurance plan is established, earned income is your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from that corporation.
One of the following statements must be true.
You were self-employed and had a net profit for the year reported on Schedule C or F.
You were a partner with net earnings from self-employment.
You used one of the optional methods to figure your net earnings from self-employment on Schedule SE.
You received wages in 2024 from an S corporation in which you were a more-than-2% shareholder. Health insurance premiums paid or reimbursed by the S corporation are shown as wages on Form W-2.
The insurance plan must be established under your business. Your personal services must have been a material income-producing factor in the business. If you are filing Schedule C or F, the policy can be either in your name or in the name of the business.
If you are a partner, the policy can be either in your name or in the name of the partnership. You can either pay the premiums yourself or your partnership can pay them and report them as guaranteed payments. If the policy is in your name and you pay the premiums yourself, the partnership must reimburse you and report the premiums as guaranteed payments.
If you are a more-than-2% shareholder in an S corporation, the policy can be either in your name or in the name of the S corporation. You can either pay the premiums yourself or the S corporation can pay them and report them as wages. If the policy is in your name and you pay the premiums yourself, the S corporation must reimburse you. You can deduct the premiums only if the S corporation reports the premiums paid or reimbursed as wages in box 1 of your Form W-2 in 2024 and you also report the premium payments or reimbursements as wages on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1a.
But if you were also eligible to participate in any subsidized health plan maintained by your or your spouse's employer for any month or part of a month in 2024, amounts paid for health insurance coverage for that month can't be used to figure the deduction. Also, if you were eligible for any month or part of a month to participate in any subsidized health plan maintained by the employer of either your dependent or your child who was under age 27 at the end of 2024, don’t use amounts paid for coverage for that month to figure the deduction.
A qualified small employer health reimbursement arrangement (QSEHRA) is considered to be a subsidized health plan maintained by an employer.
Example.
If you were eligible to participate in a subsidized health plan maintained by your spouse's employer from September 30 through December 31, you can't use amounts paid for health insurance coverage for September through December to figure your deduction.
Medicare premiums you voluntarily pay to obtain insurance in your name that is similar to qualifying private health insurance can be used to figure the deduction. Amounts paid for health insurance coverage from retirement plan distributions that were nontaxable because you are a retired public safety officer can't be used to figure the deduction.
For more details, see Instructions for Form 7206.
If you qualify to take the deduction, use the Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet to figure the amount you can deduct.
Exceptions.
Use Form 7206 instead of the Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet in these instructions to figure your deduction if any of the following applies.
You had more than one source of income subject to self-employment tax.
You file Form 2555.
You are using amounts paid for qualified long-term care insurance to figure the deduction.
Use Pub. 974 instead of the worksheet in these instructions if the insurance plan was considered to be established under your business and was obtained through the Marketplace, and advance payments of the premium tax credit were made or you are claiming the premium tax credit.
Line 18
Penalty on Early Withdrawal of Savings
The Form 1099-INT or Form 1099-OID you received will show the amount of any penalty you were charged.
Lines 19a, 19b, and 19c Alimony Paid
Line 19a
If you made payments to or for your spouse or former spouse under a divorce or separation agreement entered into on or before December 31, 2018, you may be able to take this deduction. You can't take a deduction for alimony payments you made to or for your spouse if you entered into your divorce or separation agreement after December 31, 2018, or if you entered into the agreement on or before December 31, 2018, and the agreement was changed after December 31, 2018, to expressly provide that alimony received is not included in your former spouse's income. Use Tax Topic 452 or see Pub. 504.
Line 19c
On line 19c, enter the month and year of your original divorce or separation agreement that relates to this deduction for alimony paid.
Line 20
IRA Deduction
If you made any nondeductible contributions to a traditional individual retirement arrangement (IRA) for 2024, you must report them on Form 8606.
You are entitled to a deduction for your contribution to a traditional IRA regardless of age.
If you made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2024, you may be able to take an IRA deduction. But you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, must have had earned income to do so. For IRA purposes, earned income includes alimony and separate maintenance payments reported on Schedule 1, line 2a. If you were a member of the U.S. Armed Forces, earned income includes any nontaxable combat pay you received. If you were self-employed, earned income is generally your net earnings from self-employment if your personal services were a material income-producing factor. For more details, see Pub. 590-A. A statement should be sent to you by June 2, 2025, that shows all contributions to your traditional IRA for 2024.
Use the IRA Deduction Worksheet to figure the amount, if any, of your IRA deduction. But read the following list before you fill in the worksheet.
You can't deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. But you may be able to take the retirement savings contributions credit (saver's credit). See the instructions for Schedule 3, line 4.
If you are filing a joint return and you or your spouse made contributions to both a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA for 2024, don’t use the IRA Deduction Worksheet in these instructions. Instead, see Pub. 590-A to figure the amount, if any, of your IRA deduction.
You can’t deduct elective deferrals to a 401(k) plan, 403(b) plan, section 457 plan, SIMPLE IRA plan, or the federal Thrift Savings Plan. These amounts aren't included as income in box 1 of your Form W-2.
If you made contributions to your IRA in 2024 that you deducted for 2023, don’t include them in the worksheet.
If you received income from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan or nongovernmental section 457 plan that is included in box 1 of your Form W-2, or in box 1 of Form 1099-NEC, don’t include that income on line 8 of the worksheet. The income should be shown in (a) box 11 of your Form W-2, (b) box 12 of your Form W-2 with code Z, or (c) box 15 of Form 1099-MISC. If it isn't, contact your employer or the payer for the amount of the income.
You must file a joint return to deduct contributions to your spouse's IRA. Enter the total IRA deduction for you and your spouse on line 20.
Don’t include rollover contributions in figuring your deduction. Instead, see the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, lines 4a and 4b.
Don't include trustees' fees that were billed separately and paid by you for your IRA.
Don’t include any repayments of qualified reservist distributions. You can't deduct them. For information on how to report these repayments, see Qualified reservist repayments in Pub. 590-A.
If the total of your IRA deduction on line 20 plus any nondeductible contribution to your traditional IRAs shown on Form 8606 is less than your total traditional IRA contributions for 2024, see Pub. 590-A for special rules.
Were You Covered by a Retirement Plan?
If you were covered by a retirement plan (qualified pension, profit-sharing (including 401(k)), annuity, SEP, SIMPLE, etc.) at work or through self-employment, your IRA deduction may be reduced or eliminated. But you can still make contributions to an IRA even if you can't deduct them. In any case, the income earned on your IRA contributions isn't taxed until it is paid to you.
The “Retirement plan” box in box 13 of your Form W-2 should be checked if you were covered by a plan at work even if you weren’t vested in the plan. You are also covered by a plan if you were self-employed and had a SEP, SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan.
If you were covered by a retirement plan and you file Form 2555 or 8815, or you exclude employer-provided adoption benefits, see Pub. 590-A to figure the amount, if any, of your IRA deduction.
Married persons filing separately.
If you weren’t covered by a retirement plan but your spouse was, you are considered covered by a plan unless you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024.
You may be able to take the retirement savings contributions credit. See the Schedule 3, line 4, instructions.
IRA Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 20
Tax Tables
Be sure you have read the instructions for this line. You may not be able to use this worksheet.
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1, line 24z).
If you are married filing separately and you lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024, enter “D” on the dotted line next to Schedule 1, line 20. If you don’t, you may get a math error notice from the IRS.
Your IRA
Spouse's IRA
1a.
Were you covered by a retirement plan (see Were You Covered by a Retirement Plan)?
1a.
Yes
No
b.
If married filing jointly, was your spouse covered by a retirement plan?
1b.
Yes
No
Next. If you checked “No” on line 1a (and “No” on line 1b if married filing jointly), skip lines 2 through 6, enter the applicable amount below on line 7a (and line 7b, if applicable), and go to line 8.
$7,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2024.
$8,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2024.
Otherwise, go to line 2.
2.
Enter the amount shown below that applies to you.
Single, head of household, or married filing separately and you
lived apart from your spouse for all of 2024, enter $87,000.
Qualifying surviving spouse, enter $143,000.
2a.
_____
2b.
_____
Married filing jointly, enter $143,000 in both columns. But if you checked
“No” on either line 1a or 1b, enter $240,000 for the person who wasn't
covered by a plan.
Married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at any time in
2024, enter $10,000.
3.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 9
3.
_____
4.
Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 19a, plus 23 and 25
4.
_____
5.
Subtract line 4 from line 3. If married filing jointly, enter the result in both columns
5a.
_____
5b.
_____
6.
Is the amount on line 5 less than the amount on line 2?
No.
None of your IRA contributions are deductible. For details on nondeductible IRA contributions, see Form 8606.
Yes.
Subtract line 5 from line 2 in each column. Follow the instruction below that applies to you.
If single, head of household, or married filing separately,
and the result is $10,000 or more, enter the applicable
amount below on line 7 for that column and go to line 8.
i. $7,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2024.
ii. $8,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2024.
If the result is less than $10,000, go to line 7.
6a.
_____
6b.
_____
If married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
and the result is $20,000 or more ($10,000 or more in the
column for the IRA of a person who wasn't covered by a
retirement plan), enter the applicable amount below on
line 7 for that column and go to line 8.
i. $7,000, if under age 50 at the end of 2024.
ii. $8,000, if age 50 or older at the end of 2024.
Otherwise, go to line 7.
IRA Deduction Worksheet—Continued
Your IRA
Spouse's IRA
7.
Multiply lines 6a and 6b by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn't a multiple of $10, increase it to the next multiple of $10 (for example, increase $490.30 to $500). If the result is $200 or more, enter the result. But if it is less than $200, enter $200.
Single, head of household, or married filing separately, multiply
by 70% (0.70) (or by 80% (0.80) in the column for the IRA of a person who
is age 50 or older at the end of 2024).
Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, multiply by 35%
(0.35) (or by 40% (0.40) in the column for the IRA of a person
who is age 50 or older at the end of 2024). But if you checked “No”
on either line 1a or 1b, then in the column for the IRA of the person
who wasn't covered by a retirement plan, multiply by
70% (0.70) (or by 80% (0.80) if age 50 or older at the
end of 2024).
7a.
_____
7b.
_____
8.
Enter the total of your (and your spouse's if filing jointly):
Wages, salaries, tips, etc. Generally, this is the
amount reported in box 1 of Form W-2. Exceptions
are explained earlier in these instructions for line 20.
8.
_____
Alimony and separate maintenance payments
reported on Schedule 1, line 2a.
Nontaxable combat pay. This amount should be
reported in box 12 of Form W-2 with code Q or
reported on Form 1040, line 1i.
9.
Enter the earned income you (and your spouse if filing jointly) received as a self-employed individual or a partner. Generally, this is your (and your spouse's if filing jointly) net earnings from self-employment if your personal services were a material income-producing factor, minus any deductions on Schedule 1, lines 15 and 16. If zero or less, enter -0-. For more details, see Pub. 590-A
9.
_____
10.
Add lines 8 and 9
10.
_____
If married filing jointly and line 10 is less than $14,000 ($15,000 if one spouse is age 50 or older at the end of 2024; $16,000 if both spouses are age 50 or older at the end of 2024), stop here and use the worksheet in Pub. 590-A to figure your IRA deduction.
11.
Enter traditional IRA contributions made, or that will be made by the due date of your 2024 return not counting extensions (April 15, 2025, for most people), for 2024 to your IRA on line 11a and to your spouse's IRA on line 11b
11a.
_____
11b.
_____
12.
On line 12a, enter the smallest of line 7a, 10, or 11a. On line 12b, enter the smallest of line 7b, 10, or 11b. This is the most you can deduct. Add the amounts on lines 12a and 12b and enter the total on Schedule 1, line 20. Or, if you want, you can deduct a smaller amount and treat the rest as a nondeductible contribution (see Form 8606)
12a.
_____
12b.
_____
Line 21
Student Loan Interest Deduction
You can take this deduction only if all of the following apply.
You paid interest in 2024 on a qualified student loan (defined later).
Your filing status is any status except married filing separately.
Your modified adjusted gross income (AGI) is less than $95,000 if single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse; $195,000 if married filing jointly. Use lines 2 through 4 of the worksheet in these instructions to figure your modified AGI.
You, or your spouse if filing jointly, aren't claimed as a dependent on someone else's (such as your parent's) 2024 tax return.
Don't include any amount paid from a a distribution of earnings made from a qualified tuition program (QTP) after 2018 to the extent the earnings are treated as tax free because they were used to pay student loan interest.
Use the worksheet in these instructions to figure your student loan interest deduction.
Exception.
Use Pub. 970 instead of the worksheet in these instructions to figure your student loan interest deduction if you file Form 2555 or 4563, or you exclude income from sources within Puerto Rico.
Qualified student loan.
A qualified student loan is any loan you took out to pay the qualified higher education expenses for any of the following individuals who were eligible students.
Yourself or your spouse.
Any person who was your dependent when the loan was taken out.
Any person you could have claimed as a dependent for the year the loan was taken out except that:
The person filed a joint return;
The person had gross income that was equal to or more than the exemption amount for that year or $5,050 for 2024; or
You, or your spouse if filing jointly, could be claimed as a dependent on someone else's return.
However, a loan isn't a qualified student loan if (a) any of the proceeds were used for other purposes, or (b) the loan was from either a related person or a person who borrowed the proceeds under a qualified employer plan or a contract purchased under such a plan. For details, see Pub. 970.
Qualified higher education expenses.
Qualified higher education expenses generally include tuition, fees, room and board, and related expenses such as books and supplies. The expenses must be for education in a degree, certificate, or similar program at an eligible educational institution. An eligible educational institution includes most colleges, universities, and certain vocational schools. For details, see Pub. 970.
Student Loan Interest Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 21
Tax Tables
Figure any write-in adjustments to be entered on Schedule 1, line 24z (see the instructions for Schedule 1, line 24z).
Be sure you have read the Exception in the instructions for this line to see if you can use this worksheet instead of Pub. 970 to figure your deduction.
1.
Enter the total interest you paid in 2024 on qualified student loans (see the instructions for line 21). Don’t enter more than $2,500
1.
_____
2.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 9
2.
_____
3.
Enter the total of the amounts from Schedule 1, lines 11 through 20, and 23 and 25
3.
_____
4.
Subtract line 3 from line 2
4.
_____
5.
Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
Single, head of household, or qualifying
surviving spouse—$80,000
Married filing jointly—$165,000
5.
_____
6.
Is the amount on line 4 more than the amount on line 5?
No.
Skip lines 6 and 7, enter -0- on line 8, and go to line 9.
Yes.
Subtract line 5 from line 4
6.
_____
7.
Divide line 6 by $15,000 ($30,000 if married filing jointly). Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000
7.
.
8.
Multiply line 1 by line 7
8.
_____
9.
Student loan interest deduction. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result here and on Schedule 1, line 21.
Don’t include this amount in figuring any other deduction on your return (such as on Schedule A, C, E, etc.)
9.
_____
Line 22
Line 22 has been reserved for future use.
Line 23
Archer MSA Deduction
See Form 8853.
Lines 24a Through 24z
Line 24a
Jury duty pay.
Enter your jury duty pay if you gave the pay to your employer because your employer paid your salary while you served on the jury.
Line 24b
Enter the deductible expenses related to income reported on line 8l from the rental of personal property you engaged in for profit but were not in the business of renting such property.
Line 24c
Enter the nontaxable amount of the value of Olympic and Paralympic medals and USOC prize money reported on line 8m.
Line 24d
Enter reforestation amortization and expenses (see Instructions for Form 4562).
Line 24e
Enter repayment of supplemental unemployment benefits under the Trade Act of 1974 (see Pub. 525).
Line 24f
Enter contributions to section 501(c)(18)(D) pension plans (see Pub. 525).
Line 24g
Enter contributions by certain chaplains to section 403(b) plans (see Pub. 517).
Line 24h
Enter attorney fees and court costs for actions involving certain unlawful discrimination claims, but only to the extent of gross income from such actions (see Pub. 525).
Line 24i
Enter attorney fees and court costs you paid in connection with an award from the IRS for information you provided that helped the IRS detect tax law violations, up to the amount of the award includible in your gross income.
Line 24j
Enter the housing deduction from Form 2555.
Line 24k
Enter excess deductions of section 67(e) expenses from Schedule K-1 (Form 1041), box 11, code A. See the Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1041).
Line 24z
Leave line 24z blank.
Instructions for Schedule 2 Additional Taxes
General Instructions
Use Schedule 2 if you have additional taxes that can’t be entered directly on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Include the amount on Schedule 2, line 3, in the total on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 17.
Enter the amount on Schedule 2, line 21, on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 23; or 1040-NR, line 23b.
Specific Instructions
Lines 1a Through 1z
Additions to Tax
Line 1a. Excess advance premium tax credit repayment.
The premium tax credit helps pay premiums for health insurance purchased from the Marketplace. Eligible individuals may have advance payments of the premium tax credit paid on their behalf directly to the insurance company. If you, your spouse with whom you are filing a joint return, or your dependent was enrolled in coverage purchased from the Marketplace and advance payments of the premium tax credit were made for the coverage, complete Form 8962 to reconcile (compare) the advance payments with your premium tax credit. You (or whoever enrolled you) should have received Form 1095-A from the Marketplace with information about your coverage and any advance credit payments. If the advance credit payments were more than the premium tax credit you can claim, the amount you must repay will be shown on Form 8962, line 29. Enter that amount, if any, on line 1a.
You may have to repay excess advance payments of the premium tax credit even if someone else enrolled you, your spouse, or your dependent in Marketplace coverage. In that case, another individual may have received the Form 1095-A for the coverage. You may also have to repay excess advance payments of the premium tax credit if you enrolled an individual in coverage through the Marketplace, you don’t claim the individual as a dependent on your return, and no one else claims that individual as a dependent. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 8962.
Line 1b. Repayment of new clean vehicle credit(s) from Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II.
If you purchased a new clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the time of sale by transferring the credit to the dealer, you may have to repay the amount of the credit you transferred if you no longer qualify. If you completed Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II and you:
Checked the "Yes" box on Part II, line 8a or 8d; and
Checked the "Yes" box on Part I, line 4a;
Then, enter the amount from Part I, line 4a on Schedule 2, line 1b.
If you completed more than one Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II, and you need to report an amount from more than one Schedule A (Form 8936), Part II, enter the total of those amounts on line 1b.
Line 1c. Repayment of previously owned clean vehicle credit(s) from Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV.
If you purchased a previously owned clean vehicle from a registered dealer and reduced the amount you paid at the time of sale by transferring the credit to the dealer, you may have to repay the amount of the credit you transferred if you no longer qualify. If you completed Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV and you:
Checked the "Yes" box on Part IV, line 13a or 13c; and
Checked the "Yes" box on Part I, line 4a;
Then, enter the amount from Part I, line 4a on Schedule 2, line 1c.
If you completed more than one Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV, and you need to report an amount from more than one Schedule A (Form 8936), Part IV, enter the total of those amounts on line 1c.
Line 1d. Recapture of net EPE.
Enter any amount of net elective payment election (EPE) recapture from Form 4255, line 2a, column (l).
Line 1e. Excessive payments (EP) from Form 4255, column (n).
If you reported an amount on Form 4255, column (n) on line 1a, 1c, 1d, and/or 2a, check the applicable box and enter the amount on line 1e. If you checked more than one box, enter the total amount on line 1e.
Line 1f. 20% EP from Form 4255, column (o).
If Form 4255, column (o), line 1a, 1c, 1d, and/or 2a includes an additional 20% EP that you owe (calculated as 20% of the total EP before figuring the 20% EP), check the applicable box and enter the 20% EP amount included on line 1f. Enter only the 20% EP from column (o) on line 1f. If you checked more than one box, enter the total of the 20% EP amounts from each box on line 1f. Any other EP amounts reported on Form 4255, column (o), lines 1a, 1c, 1d, and/or 2a should be included on line 1y. See the instructions for line 1y.
Line 1y. Other additions to tax.
Enter the following additions to tax.
Recapture of the alternative fuel vehicle refueling property credit (see Form 8911). Identify as “ARPCR.”
Any EPE related to the credit applied against tax from Form 8933 reported on Form 4255, line 2a, column (k). Identify as “EPE8933.”
Recapture of any non-EPE credit from Form 8933 reported on Form 4255, line 2a, column (j). Also, any section 6418(g)(3) amounts attributable to recapture from Form 8933 reported on Form 4255, line 2a, column (m). Identify as “NEPE8933.”
Any amount from Form 4255, column (o) that was not reported on line 1f. Identify as “EPGEPE.”
Any section 6418(g)(2) excessive credit transfer amount reported on Form 4255, column (m). Identify as “6418(g)(2).”
For more information about elective pay and credit transferability, go to IRS.gov/Credits-Deductions/Elective-Pay-and-Transferability-Frequently-Asked-Questions-Transferability.
Line 2
Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
The AMT exemption amount is increased to $85,700 ($133,300 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse; $66,650 if married filing separately). The income levels at which the AMT exemption begins to phase out has increased to $609,350 ($1,218,700 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse).
If you aren't sure whether you owe the AMT, complete the Worksheet To See if You Should Fill in Form 6251.
Exception.
Fill in Form 6251 instead of using the worksheet if you claimed or received any of the following items.
Accelerated depreciation.
Tax-exempt interest from private activity bonds.
Intangible drilling, circulation, research, experimental, or mining costs.
Amortization of pollution-control facilities or depletion.
Income or (loss) from tax-shelter farm activities, passive activities, partnerships, S corporations, or activities for which you aren't at risk.
Income from long-term contracts not figured using the percentage-of-completion method.
Investment interest expense reported on Form 4952.
Net operating loss deduction.
Alternative minimum tax adjustments from an estate, trust, electing large partnership, or cooperative.
Section 1202 exclusion.
Stock by exercising an incentive stock option and you didn't dispose of the stock in the same year.
Any general business credit claimed on Form 3800 if either line 6 (in Part I) or line 25 of Form 3800 is more than zero.
Qualified electric vehicle credit.
Alternative fuel vehicle refueling property tax.
Credit for prior year minimum tax.
Foreign tax credit.
Net qualified disaster loss and you are reporting your standard deduction on Schedule A, line 16. See the instructions for Form 4684 for more information.
For help with the alternative minimum tax, go to IRS.gov/AMT.
Worksheet To See if You Should Fill in Form 6251—Schedule 2, Line 2
Tax Tables
Be sure you have read the Exception in the instructions for this line to see if you must fill in Form 6251 instead of using this worksheet.
1.
Are you filing Schedule A?
No.
Skip lines 1 and 2; subtract Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 13, or Form 1040-NR, line 13a, from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, and enter the result on line 3 and go to line 4.
Yes.
Enter the amount from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 15
1.
_____
2.
Enter the amount from Schedule A, line 7
2.
_____
3.
Add lines 1 and 2
3.
_____
4.
Enter any tax refund from Schedule 1, lines 1 and 8z
4.
_____
5.
Subtract line 4 from line 3
5.
_____
6.
Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
Single or head of household—$85,700
Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$133,300
Married filing separately—$66,650
6.
_____
7.
Is the amount on line 5 more than the amount on line 6?
No.
Don’t complete the rest of this worksheet. You don’t owe alternative minimum
tax and don’t need to fill out Form 6251. Leave Schedule 2, line 2, blank.
Yes.
Subtract line 6 from line 5
7.
_____
8.
Enter the amount shown below for your filing status.
Single or head of household—$609,350
Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse—$1,218,700
Married filing separately—$609,350
8.
_____
9.
Is the amount on line 5 more than the amount on line 8?
No.
Enter -0-. Skip line 10. Enter on line 11 the amount from line 7, and go to line 12.
Yes.
Subtract line 8 from line 5
9.
_____
10.
Multiply line 9 by 25% (0.25) and enter the smaller of the result or line 6
10.
_____
11.
Add lines 7 and 10
11.
_____
12.
Is the amount on line 11 more than $232,600 ($116,300 if married filing separately)?
Yes.
Fill in Form 6251 to see if you owe the alternative minimum tax.
No.
Multiply line 11 by 26% (0.26)
12.
_____
13.
Add Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 16 (minus any tax from Form 4972), and Schedule 2, line 1z. (If you used Schedule J to figure your tax on the entry space on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 16, refigure that tax without using Schedule J before including it in this calculation.)
13.
_____
Next. Is the amount on line 12 more than the amount on line 13?
Yes.
Fill in Form 6251 to see if you owe the alternative minimum tax.
No.
You don’t owe alternative minimum tax and don’t need to fill out Form 6251. Leave Schedule 2, line 2, blank.
Line 5
Unreported Social Security and Medicare Tax From Form 4137
Enter the total of any taxes from Form 4137.
If you received tips of $20 or more in any month and you didn't report the full amount to your employer, you must pay the social security and Medicare or railroad retirement (RRTA) tax on the unreported tips.
Don’t include the value of any noncash tips, such as tickets or passes. You don’t pay social security and Medicare taxes or RRTA tax on these noncash tips.
To figure the social security and Medicare tax, use Form 4137. If you owe RRTA tax, contact your employer. Your employer will figure and collect the RRTA tax.
You may be charged a penalty equal to 50% of the social security and Medicare or RRTA tax due on tips you received but didn't report to your employer.
Line 6
Unreported Social Security and Medicare Tax From Form 8919
Enter the total of any taxes from Form 8919.
If you are an employee who received wages from an employer who didn't withhold social security and Medicare tax from your wages, use Form 8919 to figure your share of the unreported tax. Include on line 6 the amount from line 13 of Form 8919. Include the amount from line 6 of Form 8919 on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 1g.
Line 8
Additional Tax on IRAs, Other Qualified Retirement Plans, etc.
If any of the following apply, see Form 5329 and its instructions to find out if you owe this tax and if you must file Form 5329. Also see Form 5329 and its instructions for definitions of the terms used here.
You received an early distribution from (a) an IRA or other qualified retirement plan, (b) an annuity, or (c) a modified endowment contract entered into after June 20, 1988, and the total distribution wasn't rolled over.
Excess contributions were made to your IRA, Coverdell education savings account (ESA), Archer MSA, health savings account (HSA), or ABLE account.
You received a taxable distribution from a Coverdell ESA, qualified tuition program, or ABLE account.
You didn't take the minimum required distribution from your IRA or other qualified retirement plan by April 1 of the year following the year you reached age 73.
Exception.
If only item (1) applies and distribution code 1 is correctly shown in box 7 of all your Forms 1099-R, you don’t have to file Form 5329. Instead, multiply the taxable amount of the distribution by 10% (0.10) and enter the result on line 8. The taxable amount of the distribution is the part of the distribution you reported on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 4b or 5b, or on Form 4972. Also check the box on line 8 to indicate that you don’t have to file Form 5329. But you must file Form 5329 if distribution code 1 is incorrectly shown in box 7 of Form 1099-R or you qualify for an exception, such as the exceptions for qualified medical expenses, qualified higher education expenses, qualified first-time homebuyer distributions, or a qualified reservist distribution.
Line 9
Household Employment Taxes
Enter the household employment taxes you owe for having a household employee. If any of the following apply, see Schedule H and its instructions to find out if you owe these taxes.
You paid any one household employee (defined below) cash wages of $2,700 or more in 2024. Cash wages include wages paid by check, money order, etc. But don’t count amounts paid to an employee who was under age 18 at any time in 2024 and was a student.
You withheld federal income tax during 2024 at the request of any household employee.
You paid total cash wages of $1,000 or more in any calendar quarter of 2023 or 2024 to household employees.
Any person who does household work is a household employee if you can control what will be done and how it will be done. Household work includes work done in or around your home by babysitters, nannies, health aides, housekeepers, yard workers, and similar domestic workers.
Line 10
First-Time Homebuyer Credit Repayment
Enter the first-time homebuyer credit you have to repay if you bought the home in 2008.
If you bought the home in 2008 and owned and used it as your main home for all of 2024, you can enter your 2024 repayment on this line without attaching Form 5405.
See the Form 5405 instructions for details and for exceptions to the repayment rule.
The 15-year repayment period for the first-time homebuyer credit for homes purchased in 2008 began with your 2010 tax return and ends with your 2024 tax return.
Line 11
Additional Medicare Tax
See Form 8959 and its instructions if the total of your 2024 wages and any self-employment income was more than:
$125,000 if married filing separately;
$250,000 if married filing jointly; or
$200,000 if single, head of household, or qualifying surviving spouse.
Also see Form 8959 if you had railroad retirement (RRTA) compensation that was more than the amount just listed that applies to you.
If you are married filing jointly and either you or your spouse had wages or RRTA compensation of more than $200,000, your employer may have withheld Additional Medicare Tax even if you don’t owe the tax. In that case, you may be able to get a refund of the tax withheld. See the Instructions for Form 8959 to find out how to report the withheld tax on Form 8959.
Line 12
Net Investment Income Tax
See Form 8960 and its instructions if the amount on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, is more than:
$125,000 if married filing separately,
$250,000 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, or
$200,000 if single or head of household.
If you file Form 2555, see Form 8960 and its instructions if the amount on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, is more than:
$0 if married filing separately,
$123,500 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, or
$73,500 if single or head of household.
Line 13
Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax on tips or group-term life insurance.
This tax should be shown in box 12 of Form W-2 with codes A and B or M and N.
Line 14
Interest on Tax Due on Installment Income From the Sale of Certain Residential Lots and Timeshares
Enter interest on tax due on installment income from the sale of certain residential lots and timeshares under section 453(l)(3).
Line 15
Interest on the Deferred Tax on Gain From Certain Installment Sales With a Sales Price Over $150,000
Enter interest on the deferred tax on gain from certain installment sales with a sales price over $150,000 under section 453A(c).
Line 16
Recapture of Low-Income Housing Credit
Enter the amount from Form 8611, line 14.
Lines 17a Through 17z
Other Additional Taxes
Line 17a.
Recapture of the following credits.
Amounts from Form 4255, column (j), lines 1b and 1j; and the Form 3468, Parts II and VII amounts that get reported on Form 4255, line 1z. Identify as “3468.”
Non-EPE recapture applied against tax from Form 3468, Part IV, reported on Form 4255, line 1d, column (j). Identify as “NEPE3458.”
New markets credit (see Form 8874). Identify as “NMCR.”
Credit for employer-provided childcare facilities (see Form 8882). Identify as “ECCFR.”
Any section 6418(g)(3) amounts attributable to recapture from Form 4255, column (m). Identify as “6418(g)(3).”
Line 17b.
If you sold your home in 2024 and it was financed (in whole or in part) from the proceeds of any tax-exempt qualified mortgage bond or you claimed the mortgage interest credit, you may owe a recapture tax on the mortgage subsidy. See Form 8828.
Line 17c.
Enter any additional tax on health savings account (HSA) distributions you received from Form 8889, line 17b. See Form 8889, Part II.
Line 17d.
Enter any additional tax for failure to remain an eligible individual during the testing period from Form 8889, line 21. See Form 8889, Part III.
Line 17e.
Enter any additional tax on Archer MSA distributions from Form 8853, line 9b. See Form 8853.
Line 17f.
Enter any additional tax on Medicare Advantage MSA distributions from Form 8853, line 13b. See Form 8853.
Line 17g.
Enter any additional tax on recapture of a charitable contribution deduction relating to a fractional interest in tangible personal property. See Pub. 526 for more information.
Line 17h.
Enter any additional tax on income you received from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan that fails to meet the requirements of section 409A. This income should be shown in box 12 of Form W-2 with code Z, or in box 15 of Form 1099-MISC. The tax is 20% of the amount required to be included in income plus an interest amount determined under section 409A(a)(1)(B)(ii). See section 409A(a)(1)(B) for details.
Line 17i.
Enter any additional tax on compensation you received from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan described in section 457A if the compensation would have been includible in your income in an earlier year except that the amount wasn't determinable until 2024. The tax is 20% of the amount required to be included in income plus an interest amount determined under section 457A(c)(2). See section 457A for details.
Line 17j.
Enter any Section 72(m)(5) excess benefits tax. See Pub. 560 for more information.
Line 17k.
If you received an excess parachute payment (EPP), you must pay a 20% tax on it. This tax should be shown in box 12 of Form W-2 with code K. If you received a Form 1099-MISC, the tax is 20% of the EPP shown in box 14. Enter this amount on line 17k.
Line 17l.
Enter any tax on accumulation distribution of trusts. See Form 4970 for more information.
Line 17m.
Enter any excise tax on insider stock compensation from an expatriated corporation. See section 4985.
Line 17n.
Enter any look-back interest under section 167(g) or 460(b). See Form 8697 or 8866 for more information.
Line 17o.
Enter any tax on non-effectively connected income for any part of the year you were a nonresident alien. See the Instructions for Form 1040-NR for more information.
Line 17p.
Enter any interest amount from Form 8621, line 16f, relating to distributions from, and dispositions of, stock of a section 1291 fund.
Line 17q.
Enter any interest amount from Form 8621, line 24.
Line 17z.
Use line 17z to report any taxes not reported elsewhere on your return or other schedules. List the type and amount of tax.
Other taxes to be listed include the following.
The prevailing wage and apprenticeship penalties (PWA) from Form 4255 for the following:
Form 7210/Form 4255, line 1c, column (p). Identify as “PWA7210.”
Form 8933/Form 4255, line 2a, column (p). Identify as “PWA8933.”
Any amount from Form 4255, column (p), not reported elsewhere. Identify as “NPWA.”
Form 8978 adjustment. Complete the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 2 (Line 17z) if you are filing Form 8978 and completed the worksheet in the Schedule 3, line 6l, instructions and the amount on line 3 of that worksheet is negative.
Line 19
Recapture of Net EPE From Form 4255
Enter the recapture amount of the net EPE claimed on Form 4255, line 1d, column (l) related to the credit from Form 3468, Part IV.
Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 2 (Line 17z)
Complete this worksheet if you completed line 3 on the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 3, line 6l, instructions.
1.
Enter the sum of any chapter 1 taxes* (other than your negative Form 8978 adjustment) reported in Part II of Schedule 2
1.
_____
2.
Enter as a positive number the negative amount from line 3 of the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 3, line 6l, instructions
2.
_____
3.
Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on line 2?
Yes.
List the type (Form 8978 ADJ) and the amount from line 2 as a negative number (in parentheses) on line 17z.
No.
List the type (Form 8978 ADJ) and the amount from line 1 as a negative number (in parentheses) on line 17z.
Combine this amount with any other amounts reported on line 17z to complete the line 17z entry space.
* Chapter 1 taxes include taxes from sections 1 through 1400Z-2 of the Code, as well as certain amounts the Code treats as chapter 1 taxes. Generally, this does not include amounts reported on Schedule 2, lines 4, 7, 9, 11–13, 17k–17m, or 17z (other than chapter 1 taxes).
Instructions for Schedule 3 Additional Credits and Payments
General Instructions
Use Schedule 3 if you have nonrefundable credits, other than the child tax credit or the credit for other dependents, or other payments and refundable credits.
Include the amount on Schedule 3, line 8, in the amount entered on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 20.
Enter the amount on Schedule 3, line 15, on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 31.
Specific Instructions
Line 1
Foreign Tax Credit
If you are a shareholder in a controlled foreign corporation and made a section 962 election, see the instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR, line 16, for the foreign tax credit you figured on Form 1118.
If you paid income tax to a foreign country or U.S. territory, you may be able to take this credit. Generally, you must complete and attach Form 1116 to do so.
Exception.
You don’t have to complete Form 1116 to take this credit if all of the following apply.
All of your foreign source gross income was from interest and dividends and all of that income and the foreign tax paid on it were reported to you on Form 1099-INT, Form 1099-DIV, or Schedule K-3 (or substitute statement).
The total of your foreign taxes wasn't more than $300 (not more than $600 if married filing jointly).
You held the stock or bonds on which the dividends or interest were paid for at least 16 days and weren’t obligated to pay these amounts to someone else.
You aren’t filing Form 4563 or excluding income from sources within Puerto Rico.
All of your foreign taxes were:
Legally owed and not eligible for a refund or reduced tax rate under a tax treaty, and
Paid to countries that are recognized by the United States and don’t support terrorism.
For more details on these requirements, see the Instructions for Form 1116.
Do you meet all five requirements just listed?
□ Yes.
Enter on line 1 the smaller of (a) your total foreign taxes, or (b) the total of the amounts on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, and Schedule 2, line 1a.
□ No.
See Form 1116 to find out if you can take the credit and, if you can, if you have to file Form 1116.
Line 2
Credit for Child and Dependent Care Expenses
You may be able to take this credit if, in order to work or look for work, you paid someone to care for:
Your qualifying child under age 13 whom you claim as your dependent,
Your disabled spouse or any other disabled person who couldn't care for themselves, or
Your child whom you couldn't claim as a dependent because of the rules for Children of divorced or separated parents under Who Qualifies as Your Dependent, earlier.
For details, use Tax Topic 602 or see Form 2441.
Line 3
Education Credits
If you (or your dependent) paid qualified expenses in 2024 for yourself, your spouse, or your dependent to enroll in or attend an eligible educational institution, you may be able to take an education credit. See Form 8863 for details. However, you can't take an education credit if any of the following applies.
You, or your spouse if filing jointly, are claimed as a dependent on someone else's (such as your parent's) 2024 tax return.
Your filing status is married filing separately.
The amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11, is $90,000 or more ($180,000 or more if married filing jointly).
You, or your spouse, were a nonresident alien for any part of 2024 unless your filing status is married filing jointly. See Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens, earlier.
You may be able to increase an education credit if the student chooses to include all or part of a Pell grant or certain other scholarships or fellowships in income.
For more information, see Pub. 970; the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 29; and IRS.gov/EdCredit.
Line 4
Retirement Savings Contributions Credit (Saver's Credit)
You may be able to take this credit if you, or your spouse if filing jointly, made (a) contributions, other than rollover contributions, to a traditional or Roth IRA; (b) elective deferrals to a 401(k) or 403(b) plan (including designated Roth contributions) or to a governmental section 457(b) plan, SIMPLE IRA, or a SEP; (c) voluntary employee contributions to a qualified retirement plan (including the federal Thrift Savings Plan); (d) contributions to a 501(c)(18)(D) plan; or (e) contributions to an ABLE account by the designated beneficiary, as defined in section 529A.
However, you can't take the credit if either of the following applies.
The amount on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 11, is more than $38,250 ($57,375 if head of household; $76,500 if married filing jointly).
The person(s) who made the qualified contribution or elective deferral (a) was born after January 1, 2007, (b) is claimed as a dependent on someone else's 2024 tax return, or (c) was a student (defined next).
You were a student if during any part of 5 calendar months of 2024, you:
Were enrolled as a full-time student at a school; or
Took a full-time, on-farm training course given by a school or a state, county, or local government agency.
A school includes a technical, trade, or mechanical school. It doesn't include an on-the-job training course, correspondence school, or school offering courses only through the Internet.
For more details, use Tax Topic 610 or see Form 8880.
Line 5
Residential Energy Credits
Line 5a—Residential clean energy credit.
If you made energy saving improvements to one or more homes that you used as a residence during 2024, you may be able to take the residential clean energy credit. For more information, see Form 5695 and its instructions.
Line 5b—Energy efficient home improvement credit.
If you made qualified energy efficiency improvements to your main home located in the United States in 2024, you may be able to take the energy efficient home improvement credit. For more information, see Form 5695 and its instructions.
Condos and co-ops.
If you are a member of a condominium management association for a condominium you own or a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative housing corporation, you are treated as having paid your proportionate share of any costs of such association or corporation for purposes of these credits.
More details.
For details, see Form 5695.
Lines 6a Through 6z
Other Nonrefundable Credits
Line 6a.
The general business credit consists of a number of credits that usually apply only to individuals who are partners, shareholders in an S corporation, self-employed, or who have rental property. See Form 3800 or Pub. 334.
The net elective payment election amount from Form 3800, Part III, line 6, column (j) is reported on Schedule 3, line 13c.
Line 6b.
Enter any credit for prior year minimum tax. See Form 8801.
Line 6c.
You may be able to take the adoption credit if you paid expenses to adopt a child or you adopted a child with special needs and the adoption became final in 2024. See the Instructions for Form 8839.
Line 6d.
Enter any credit for the elderly or the disabled. See Schedule R.
Line 6e.
Line 6e has been reserved for future use.
Line 6f.
Enter the personal use part of any credit for new clean vehicles. See Form 8936, Part III.
Line 6g.
Enter any mortgage interest credit if a state or local government gave you a mortgage credit certificate. See Form 8396.
Line 6h.
You can't claim the District of Columbia first-time homebuyer credit for a home you bought after 2011. You can claim it only if you have a credit carryforward from 2023. See Form 8859.
Line 6i.
Enter any qualified electric vehicle credit. You can't claim this credit for a vehicle placed in service after 2006. You can claim this credit only if you have an electric vehicle passive activity credit carried forward from a prior year. See Form 8834.
Line 6j.
Enter any alternative fuel vehicle refueling property credit. See Form 8911.
Line 6k.
Enter any credit to holders of tax credit bonds. See Form 8912.
Line 6l.
Enter the amount from Form 8978, line 14 (relating to partner's audit liability under section 6226). If the amount on Form 8978, line 14, is negative, complete the following worksheet to figure the amount to enter on line 6l. If the amount on Form 8978, line 14, is positive, see the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.
Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet—Schedule 3 (Line 6l)
Complete this worksheet if Form 8978, line 14, is negative.
1.
Enter the amount from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 18
1.
_____
2.
Enter as a positive number the negative amount from Form 8978, line 14
2.
_____
3.
Is the amount on line 1 equal to or more than the amount on line 2?
Yes.
Enter the amount from line 2 on line 6l
No.
Enter the amount from line 1 on line 6l, and subtract line 2 from line 1*
3.
(_____)
* Use this amount to complete the Negative Form 8978 Adjustment Worksheet in the Schedule 2, line 17z, instructions.
Line 6m.
Enter any credit for previously owned clean vehicles. See Form 8936, Part IV.
Line 6z.
Other nonrefundable credits. Use line 6z to report any nonrefundable credits not reported elsewhere on your return or other schedules. List the type and amount of the credit.
Line 9
Net Premium Tax Credit
The premium tax credit helps pay for health insurance purchased through the Marketplace. You may be eligible to claim the premium tax credit if you, your spouse, or a dependent enrolled in health insurance through the Marketplace. Eligible individuals may have advance payments of the premium tax credit made on their behalf directly to the insurance company. You (or whoever enrolled you) should have received Form 1095-A from the Marketplace with information about your coverage and any advance credit payments. Complete Form 8962 to determine the amount of your premium tax credit, if any. If the premium tax credit you can claim exceeds your advance credit payments, your net premium tax credit will be shown on Form 8962, line 26. Enter that amount, if any, on line 9. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 8962.
Line 10
Amount Paid With Request for Extension To File
If you got an automatic extension of time to file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR by filing Form 4868 or by making a payment, enter the amount of the payment or any amount you paid with Form 4868. If you paid a fee when making your payment, don’t include on line 10 the fee you were charged. Also, include any amounts paid with Form 2350.
Line 11
Excess Social Security and Tier 1 RRTA Tax Withheld
If you, or your spouse if filing a joint return, had more than one employer for 2024 and total wages of more than $168,600, too much social security or tier 1 railroad retirement (RRTA) tax may have been withheld. You can take a credit on this line for the amount withheld in excess of $10,453.20. But if any one employer withheld more than $10,453.20, you can't claim the excess on your return. The employer should adjust the tax for you. If the employer doesn't adjust the overcollection, you can file a claim for refund using Form 843. Figure this amount separately for you and your spouse.
You can't claim a refund for excess tier 2 RRTA tax on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Instead, use Form 843.
Line 12
Credit for Federal Tax on Fuels
Enter any credit for federal excise taxes paid on fuels that are ultimately used for a nontaxable purpose (for example, an off-highway business use). Attach Form 4136.
Lines 13a Through 13z Other Payments or Refundable Credits
Line 13b
If you are claiming a credit for repayment of amounts you included in your income in an earlier year because it appeared you had a right to the income, enter the amount on line 13b. See Pub. 525 for details about this credit.
Line 13c
Enter any net elective payment election amount from Form 3800, Part III, line 6, column (j).
Line 13d
If you elected to pay your net 965 tax liability in installments, report the deferred amount on line 13d. Enter the amount of net 965 tax liability remaining to be paid in future years.
Line 13z
Other refundable credits.
Use line 13z to report the credit under section 960(c) with respect to an excess limitation account. If an increase in the limitation under section 960(c) is more than your U.S. income tax reported on Form 1116, Part III, line 20, the amount of the excess is deemed an overpayment of tax and can be claimed on line 13z as a refundable credit. See section 960(c)(5). Enter “960(c)” and the amount of the credit. See section 960(c) for more information about the circumstances under which an excess in limitation arises. Also, see the instructions for Form 1116, Part III, line 22 for your increase in limitation.
Also use line 13z to report the amount of U.S. tax allocable to the U.S. Virgin Islands. Enter “Form 8689” and the amount paid.
Tax Topics
You can read these Tax Topics at IRS.gov/TaxTopics.
List of Tax Topics
All topics are also available in Spanish (and most topics are available in Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, and Russian).
IRS help available
101
IRS services—Volunteer tax assistance, outreach programs, and identity theft
102
Tax assistance for individuals with disabilities
103
Tax help for small businesses and the self-employed
104
Taxpayer Advocate Service—Your voice at the IRS
105
Armed Forces tax information
107
Tax relief in disaster situations
IRS procedures
151
Your appeal rights
154
Form W-2 and Form 1099-R (What to do if incorrect or not received)
155
Obtaining forms and publications
156
How to get a transcript or copy of your tax return
157
Change your address—How to notify the IRS
158
Paying your taxes and ensuring proper credit of payments
159
How to get a wage and income transcript or copy of Form W-2
161
Returning an erroneous refund—Paper check or direct deposit
Collection
201
The collection process
202
Tax payment options
203
Reduced refund
204
Offers in compromise
206
Dishonored payments
Alternative filing methods
253
Substitute tax forms
254
How to choose a tax return preparer
255
Signing your return electronically
General information
301
When, how, and where to file
303
Checklist of common errors when preparing your tax return
304
Extensions of time to file your tax return
305
Recordkeeping
306
Penalty for underpayment of estimated tax
307
Backup withholding
308
Amended returns
309
Roth IRA contributions
310
Coverdell education savings accounts
311
Power of attorney information
312
Disclosure authorizations
313
Qualified tuition programs (QTPs)
Which forms to file
356
Decedents
Types of income
401
Wages and salaries
403
Interest received
404
Dividends
407
Business income
409
Capital gains and losses
410
Pensions and annuities
411
Pensions—The general rule and the simplified method
412
Lump-sum distributions
413
Rollovers from retirement plans
414
Rental income and expenses
415
Renting residential and vacation property
416
Farming and fishing income
417
Earnings for clergy
418
Unemployment compensation
419
Gambling income and losses
420
Bartering income
421
Scholarships, fellowship grants, and other grants
423
Social security and equivalent railroad retirement benefits
424
401(k) plans
425
Passive activities—Losses and credits
427
Stock options
429
Traders in securities (Information for Form 1040 or 1040-SR filers)
430
Receipt of stock in a demutualization
431
Canceled debt—Is it taxable or not?
432
Form 1099-A (Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured Property) and Form 1099-C (Cancellation of Debt)
Adjustments to income
451
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs)
452
Alimony and Separate Maintenance
453
Bad debt deduction
455
Moving expenses for members of the Armed Forces
456
Student loan interest deduction
458
Educator expense deduction
Itemized deductions
501
Should I itemize?
502
Medical and dental expenses
503
Deductible taxes
504
Home mortgage points
505
Interest expense
506
Charitable contributions
509
Business use of home
510
Business use of car
511
Business travel expenses
513
Work-related education expenses
515
Casualty, disaster, and theft losses
Tax computation
551
Standard deduction
552
Tax and credits figured by the IRS
553
Tax on a child's investment and other unearned income (Kiddie tax)
554
Self-employment tax
556
Alternative minimum tax
557
Additional tax on early distributions from traditional and Roth IRAs
558
Additional tax on early distributions from retirement plans other than IRAs
559
Net Investment Income Tax
560
Additional Medicare Tax
Tax credits
601
Earned income credit
602
Child and dependent care credit
608
Excess social security and RRTA tax withheld
610
Retirement savings contributions credit
611
Repayment of the first-time homebuyer credit
612
The premium tax credit
IRS notices
651
Notices—What to do
652
Notice of underreported income—CP2000
653
IRS notices and bills, penalties, and interest charges
654
Understanding your CP75 or CP75A Notice Request for Supporting Documentation
Basis of assets, depreciation, and sale of assets
701
Sale of your home
703
Basis of assets
704
Depreciation
705
Installment sales
Employer tax information
751
Social security and Medicare withholding rates
752
Filing Forms W-2 and W-3
753
Form W-4—Employee's Withholding Certificate
756
Employment taxes for household employees
757
Forms 941 and 944—Deposit requirements
758
Form 941—Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return and Form 944—Employer's Annual Federal Tax Return
759
Form 940—Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return—Filing and deposit requirements
760
Form 943—Reporting and deposit requirements for agricultural employers
761
Tips—Withholding and reporting
762
Independent contractor vs. employee
763
The Affordable Care Act
Electronic media filers—1099 series and related information returns
801
Who must file information returns electronically
802
Applying to file information returns electronically
803
Electronic filing waivers and exemptions and filing extensions
804
FIRE system test files and combined federal/state filing (CF/SF) program
Tax information for U.S. resident aliens and citizens living abroad
851
Resident and nonresident aliens
856
Foreign tax credit
857
Individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN)
858
Alien tax clearance
Tax information for residents of Puerto Rico
901
Is a person with income from Puerto Rico required to file a U.S. federal income tax return?
902
Credits and deductions for taxpayers with Puerto Rican source income exempt from U.S. tax
903
U.S. employment tax in Puerto Rico
- Notices
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice
The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998, the Privacy Act of 1974, and the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 require that when we ask you for information we must first tell you our legal right to ask for the information, why we are asking for it, and how it will be used. We must also tell you what could happen if we do not receive it and whether your response is voluntary, required to obtain a benefit, or mandatory under the law.
This notice applies to all records and other material (in paper or electronic format) you file with us, including this tax return. It also applies to any questions we need to ask you so we can complete, correct, or process your return; figure your tax; and collect tax, interest, or penalties.
Our legal right to ask for information is Internal Revenue Code sections 6001, 6011, and 6012(a), and their regulations. They say that you must file a return or statement with us for any tax you are liable for. Your response is mandatory under these sections. Code section 6109 requires you to provide your identifying number on the return. This is so we know who you are, and can process your return and other papers. You must fill in all parts of the tax form that apply to you. But you do not have to check the boxes for the Presidential Election Campaign Fund or for the third-party designee. You also do not have to provide your daytime phone number or email address.
You are not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law.
We ask for tax return information to carry out the tax laws of the United States. We need it to figure and collect the right amount of tax.
If you do not file a return, do not provide the information we ask for, or provide fraudulent information, you may be charged penalties and be subject to criminal prosecution. We may also have to disallow the exemptions, exclusions, credits, deductions, or adjustments shown on the tax return. This could make the tax higher or delay any refund. Interest may also be charged.
Generally, tax returns and return information are confidential, as stated in Code section 6103. However, Code section 6103 allows or requires the Internal Revenue Service to disclose or give the information shown on your tax return to others as described in the Code. For example, we may disclose your tax information to the Department of Justice to enforce the tax laws, both civil and criminal, and to cities, states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. commonwealths or territories to carry out their tax laws. We may disclose your tax information to the Department of Treasury and contractors for tax administration purposes; and to other persons as necessary to obtain information needed to determine the amount of or to collect the tax you owe. We may disclose your tax information to the Comptroller General of the United States to permit the Comptroller General to review the Internal Revenue Service. We may disclose your tax information to committees of Congress; federal, state, and local child support agencies; and to other federal agencies for the purposes of determining entitlement for benefits or the eligibility for and the repayment of loans. We may also disclose this information to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal and state agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or to federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism.
Please keep this notice with your records. It may help you if we ask you for other information. If you have questions about the rules for filing and giving information, please call or visit any Internal Revenue Service office.
We Welcome Comments on Forms
We try to create forms and instructions that can be easily understood. Often this is difficult to do because our tax laws are very complex. For some people with income mostly from wages, filling in the forms is easy. For others who have businesses, pensions, stocks, rental income, or other investments, it is more difficult.
If you have suggestions for making these forms simpler, we would be happy to hear from you. You can send us comments through IRS.gov/FormsComments. Or you can send your comments to Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications Division, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Don’t send your return to this address. Instead, see the addresses at the end of these instructions.
Although we can't respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will consider your comments as we revise our tax forms and instructions.
Estimates of Taxpayer Burden
The following table shows burden estimates based on current statutory requirements as of December 1, 2024, for taxpayers filing a 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR tax return. Time spent and out-of-pocket costs are presented separately. Time burden is broken out by taxpayer activity, with recordkeeping representing the largest component. Out-of-pocket costs include any expenses incurred by taxpayers to prepare and submit their tax returns. Examples include tax return preparation and submission fees, postage and photocopying costs, and tax return preparation software costs. While these estimates don’t include burden associated with post-filing activities, IRS operational data indicate that electronically prepared and filed returns have fewer arithmetic errors, implying lower post-filing burden.
Reported time and cost burdens are national averages and don’t necessarily reflect a “typical” case. Most taxpayers experience lower than average burden, with taxpayer burden varying considerably by taxpayer type. For instance, the estimated average time burden for all taxpayers filing a Form 1040 or 1040-SR is 13 hours, with an average cost of $290 per return. This average includes all associated forms and schedules, across all tax return preparation methods and taxpayer activities.
Within this estimate, there is significant variation in taxpayer activity. For example, nonbusiness taxpayers are expected to have an average burden of about 8 hours and $160, while business taxpayers are expected to have an average burden of about 24 hours and $620. Similarly, tax return preparation fees and other out-of-pocket costs vary extensively depending on the tax situation of the taxpayer, the type of software or professional preparer used, and the geographic location.
For more information on taxpayer burden see Pub. 5743. If you have comments concerning the time and cost estimates below, you can contact us at either one of the addresses shown under We Welcome Comments on Forms.
Estimated Average Taxpayer Burden for Individuals by Activity
Average Burden
Average Time (Hours)
Average
Cost
(Dollars)**
Type of Taxpayer
Percentage
of Returns
Total
Time*
Record-
keeping
Tax
Planning
Form
Completion and Submission
All
Other
All taxpayers
100%
13
5
3
4
1
$290
Type of taxpayer
Nonbusiness***
71%
8
3
1
3
1
160
Business***
29%
24
11
5
6
2
620
*Detail may not add to total time due to rounding.
**Dollars rounded to the nearest $10.
***You are considered a “business” filer if you file one or more of the following with Form 1040 or 1040-SR: Schedule C, E, or F or Form 2106. You are considered a “nonbusiness” filer if you don’t file any of those schedules or forms with Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Major Categories of Federal Income and Outlays for Fiscal Year 2023
Federal Budget
Income and outlays
Income and outlays
Summary: Pictured are two pie charts. These pie charts show the relative sizes of the major categories of federal income and outlays for fiscal year 2023
The items and corresponding percentages are listed:
Under Income:
Personal income taxes: 35%
Social security, Medicare, and unemployment and other retirement taxes: 26%
Excise, customs, estate, gift, and miscellaneous taxes: 4%
Corporate income taxes: 7%
Borrowing to cover deficit 28%
Under Outlays:
Social security, Medicare and other retirement (see Footnote 1): 39%. Footnote 1: These programs provide income support for the retired and disabled and medical care for the elderly.
Social programs (see Footnote 4): 23%. Footnote 4: About 17% of total outlays were for Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps), temporary assistance for needy families, supplemental security income, and related programs; and 6% for health research and public health programs, unemployment compensation, assisted housing, and social services.
National defense, veterans, and foreign affairs (see Footnote 2): 19%. Footnote 2: About 13% of outlays were to equip, modernize, and pay our armed forces and to fund national defense activities; about 5% were for veterans benefits and services; and about 1% were for international activities, including military and economic assistance to foreign countries and the maintenance of U.S. embassies abroad.
Physical, human, and community development (see Footnote 3): 7%. Footnote 3: These outlays were for agriculture; natural resources; environment; transportation; aid for elementary and secondary education and direct assistance to college students; job training; deposit insurance, commerce and housing credit, and community development; and space, energy, and general science programs.
Law enforcement and general government: 2%
Net interest on the debt: 11%
Numbers may not total 100% due to rounding.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
On or before the first Monday in February of each year, the President is required by law to submit to the Congress a budget proposal for the fiscal year that begins the following October. The budget plan sets forth the President's proposed receipts, spending, and the surplus or deficit for the federal government. The plan includes recommendations for new legislation as well as recommendations to change, eliminate, and add programs. After receipt of the President's proposal, the Congress reviews the proposal and makes changes. It first passes a budget resolution setting its own targets for receipts, outlays, and surplus or deficit. Next, individual spending and revenue bills that are consistent with the goals of the budget resolution are enacted.
In fiscal year 2023 (which began on October 1, 2022, and ended on September 30, 2023, federal income was $4.441 trillion and outlays were $6.135 trillion, leaving a deficit of $1.694 trillion.
Footnotes for Certain Federal Outlays
Note. The percentages shown here exclude undistributed offsetting receipts, which were $132 billion in fiscal year 2023. In the budget, these receipts are offset against spending in figuring the outlay totals shown above. These receipts are for the U.S. Government's share of its employee retirement programs, rents and royalties on the Outer Continental Shelf, and proceeds from the sale of assets.
Social security, Medicare, and other retirement: These programs provide income support for the retired and disabled and medical care for the elderly.
National defense, veterans, and foreign affairs: About 13% of outlays were to equip, modernize, and pay our armed forces and to fund national defense activities; about 5% were for veterans benefits and services; and about 1% were for international activities, including military and economic assistance to foreign countries and the maintenance of U.S. embassies abroad.
Physical, human, and community development: These outlays were for agriculture; natural resources; environment; transportation; aid for elementary and secondary education and direct assistance to college students; job training; deposit insurance, commerce and housing credit, and community development; and space, energy, and general science programs.
Social programs: About 17% of total outlays were for Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (formerly food stamps), temporary assistance for needy families, supplemental security income, and related programs; and 6% for health research and public health programs, unemployment compensation, assisted housing, and social services.
2024 Tax Rate Schedules
2024 Tax Rate Schedules
2024 Tax Rate Schedules
Summary: The Tax Rate Schedules are shown so you can see the tax rate that applies to all levels of taxable income. Don’t use them to figure your tax. Instead, see the instructions for line 16.
Schedule X—Use if your filing status is Single.
If your taxable income is: Over--
But not over--
The tax is:
$0
$11,600
10% of the amount over $0
11,600
47,150
$1,160.00 plus 12% of the amount over 11,600
47,150
100,525
5,426.00 plus 22% of the amount over 47,150
100,525
191,950
17,168.50 plus 24% of the amount over 100,525
191,950
243,725
39,110.50 plus 32% of the amount over 191,950
243,725
609,350
55,678.50 plus 35% of the amount over 243,725
609,350
no limit
183,647.25 plus 37% of the amount over 609,350
Schedule Y-1—Use if your filing status is Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse.
If your taxable income is: Over--
But not over--
The tax is:
$0
23,200
10% of the amount over $0
23,200
94,300
$2,320.00 plus 12% of the amount over 23,200
94,300
201,050
10,852.00 plus 22% of the amount over 94,300
201,050
383,900
34,337.00 plus 24% of the amount over 201,050
383,900
487,450
78,221.00 plus 32% of the amount over 383,900
487,450
731,200
111,357.00 plus 35% of the amount over 487,450
731,200
no limit
196,669.50 plus 37% of the amount over 731,200
Schedule Y-2—Use if your filing status is Married filing separately.
If your taxable income is: Over--
But not over--
The tax is:
$0
11,600
10% of the amount over $0
11,600
47,150
$1,160.00 plus 12% of the amount over 11,600
47,150
100,525
5,426.00 plus 22% of the amount over 47,150
100,525
191,950
17,168.50 plus 24% of the amount over 100,525
191,950
243,725
39,110.50 plus 32% of the amount over 191,950
243,725
365,600
55,678.50 plus 35% of the amount over 243,725
365,600
no limit
99,334.75 plus 37% of the amount over 365,600
Schedule Z—Use if your filing status is Head of household.
If your taxable income is: Over--
But not over--
The tax is:
$0
16,550
10% of the amount over $0
16,550
63,100
$1,655.00 plus 12% of the amount over 16,550
63,100
100,500
7,241.00 plus 22% of the amount over 63,100
100,500
191,950
15,469.00 plus 24% of the amount over 100,500
191,950
243,700
37,417.00 plus 32% of the amount over 191,950
243,700
609,350
53,977.00 plus 35% of the amount over 243,700
609,350
no limit
181,954.50 plus 37% of the amount over 609,350
Please click here for the text description of the image.
1040 - Additional Material
Index
A
ABLE account, Taxable distributions from an ABLE account., Additional Tax on IRAs, Other Qualified Retirement Plans, etc.
Additional Medicare Tax, Additional Medicare Tax
Additions to tax, Additions to Tax
Address change, Address Change
Addresses of IRS centers, 1040 - Additional Material
Adjusted gross income, Total Income and Adjusted Gross Income
Adoption credit, Line 6c.
Adoption taxpayer identification number, Adoption taxpayer identification numbers (ATINs).
Aliens, Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
Alimony paid, Lines 19a, 19b, and 19c Alimony Paid
Alimony received, Alimony Received
Alternative minimum tax, Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
Amended return, Amended Return
Amount you owe, Amount You Owe, Figuring the Penalty
Annuities, Pensions and Annuities, Lump-Sum Distributions
Archer MSAs, Income from Form 8853., Line 8, Line 17e.
Artists, Certain Business Expenses of Reservists, Performing Artists, and Fee-Basis Government Officials
Assistance, How To Get Tax Help
Attachments to the return, Assemble Your Return
Awards, Prizes and awards.
B
Bankruptcy cases, chapter 11, Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Cases
Bequests, Nontaxable income.
Blindness, Blindness, Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
Business income or loss, Business Income or (Loss)
C
Canceled debt, Cancellation of debt.
Capital gain distributions, Line 7
Capital gain or loss, Capital Gain or (Loss)
Child and dependent care expenses, credit for, Credit for Child and Dependent Care Expenses
Child custody, Custodial and noncustodial parents.
Child support, Nontaxable income.
Child tax credits,
Dependents, Qualifying Child for Child Tax Credit, and Credit for Other Dependents , Additional Child Tax Credit
Community property states, Community Property States
Contributions to reduce debt held by the public, How Do You Make a Gift To Reduce Debt Held By the Public?
Corrective distributions, Other Earned Income
D
Daycare center expenses, Credit for Child and Dependent Care Expenses
Death of a taxpayer, Death of a Taxpayer
Death of spouse, Death of a Taxpayer
Dependent care benefits, Taxable Dependent Care Benefits From Form 2441, Line 26
Dependents,
Dependents, Qualifying Child for Child Tax Credit, and Credit for Other Dependents
Standard deduction, Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
Direct deposit of refund, Amount Refunded to You, Line 36
Disability expenses, Taxable distributions from an ABLE account.
Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice
Dividends
Nondividend distributions, Ordinary Dividends
Ordinary dividends, Ordinary Dividends
Qualified dividends, Qualified Dividends, Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16
Divorced parents, Children of divorced or separated parents.
Dual-status aliens, Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens., Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
E
Earned income credit (EIC),
What Is the EIC?
Combat pay, nontaxable,
Definitions and Special Rules
Education
Credits, American Opportunity Credit, Education Credits
Expenses, American Opportunity Credit, Education Credits
Recapture of education credits, Tax
Savings accounts, Other income., Line 8
Educator expenses, Educator Expenses
Elderly persons
Credit for, Line 6d.
Standard deduction, Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
Electric vehicles, Line 6f.
Electronic filing (e-file), , , Amount Refunded to You, Amount You Owe, Requirements for an Electronic Return, Assemble Your Return
Estimated tax, 2024 Estimated Tax Payments, Estimated Tax Penalty, Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Payments for 2025
Excess deferrals, Other Earned Income
Excess social security and tier 1 RRTA tax withheld, Excess Social Security and Tier 1 RRTA Tax Withheld
Extension of time to file, What if You Can't File on Time?, Amount Paid With Request for Extension To File
F
Filing requirements, , Private Delivery Services
Filing status, which box to check, Filing Status, Qualifying Surviving Spouse
Foreign accounts and trusts, Foreign accounts and trusts.
Foreign tax credit, Foreign Tax Credit
Foreign-source income, Foreign-Source Income
Form W-2, Missing or Incorrect Form W-2?
Free Ways to File Your Taxes,
G
Gambling, Gambling.
General business credit, Line 6a.
Gifts, Nontaxable income.
Golden parachute payments, Line 17k.
H
Head of household, Head of Household
Health insurance deduction, self-employed, Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
Health insurance premiums, credit for, Net Premium Tax Credit
Health savings accounts, Income from Form 8853., Health Savings Account (HSA) Deduction, Line 8, Line 17c.
Homebuyer credit, first-time, First-Time Homebuyer Credit Repayment
Household employment taxes, Household Employment Taxes
How to comment on forms, We Welcome Comments on Forms
I
Identity Protection PIN, Identity Protection PIN
Identity theft, Secure Your Tax Records From Identity Theft
Income, Foreign-Source Income, Other Income
Income tax withholding (federal), Line 26, Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Payments for 2025
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs)
Contributions to, IRA Deduction, IRA Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 20
Credit for contributions to, Retirement Savings Contributions Credit (Saver's Credit)
Distributions from, IRA Distributions
Nondeductible contributions to, IRA Distributions, IRA Deduction, IRA Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 20
Individual taxpayer identification numbers, IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) for Aliens
Injured spouse, Injured Spouse
Innocent spouse relief, Innocent Spouse Relief
Installment payments, What if You Can't Pay?
Interest income
Tax-exempt, Line 2a
Taxable, Line 2b, Taxable Interest
Interest on taxes, Interest and Penalties
Investment income, tax on, Net Investment Income Tax
Itemized deductions or standard deduction,
Itemized Deductions or Standard Deduction, Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
ITINs for aliens, IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) for Aliens
J
Jury duty pay, Jury duty pay.
L
Life insurance, Nontaxable income.
Line instructions for Forms 1040 and 1040-SR, , Assemble Your Return
Living abroad, U.S. citizens and resident aliens, Do You Have To File?, Foreign-Source Income
Long-term care insurance, Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
Lump-sum distributions, Lump-Sum Distributions
M
Mailing addresses, 1040 - Additional Material
Market discount on bonds, Taxable Interest
Married persons
Filing joint returns, Married Filing Jointly
Filing separate returns, Married Filing Separately
Living apart, Married persons who live apart.
Medical insurance premiums, credit for, Net Premium Tax Credit
Medicare tax, additional, Additional Medicare Tax
Mortgage interest credit, Line 6g.
Moving expenses, Moving Expenses
Multiple support agreement, Multiple support agreements.
N
Name change, Name Change
Net Investment Income Tax, Net Investment Income Tax
Net operating loss, Net operating loss (NOL) deduction.
Nonresident aliens, Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens., IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs) for Aliens, Nonresident Alien Spouse, Nonresident aliens and dual-status aliens.
O
Offsets, Refund Offset
Other income, Other Income, Gambling.
Other taxes, Other Additional Taxes
P
Parents, divorced or separated, Children of divorced or separated parents.
Pay taxes electronically, Amount You Owe
Payments, Payments, Lines 13a Through 13z Other Payments or Refundable Credits
Penalty
Early withdrawal of savings, Penalty on Early Withdrawal of Savings
Estimated tax, Estimated Tax Penalty, Figuring the Penalty
Others (including late filing and late payment), Interest and Penalties
Penalty on early withdrawal of savings, Penalty on Early Withdrawal of Savings
Pensions and annuities, Pensions and Annuities, Lump-Sum Distributions
Premium tax credit, Net Premium Tax Credit
Presidential election $3 check-off, Presidential Election Campaign Fund
Private delivery services, Private Delivery Services
Prizes, Prizes and awards.
Public debt, gift to reduce the, How Do You Make a Gift To Reduce Debt Held By the Public?
Publications, How To Get Tax Help
Q
Qualified business income deduction, Qualified Business Income Deduction (Section 199A Deduction)
Qualified dividends, Qualified Dividends, Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16
Qualified dividends and capital gain tax worksheet, Qualified Dividends and Capital Gain Tax Worksheet—Line 16
Qualified retirement plans, deduction for, Self-Employed SEP, SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans
Qualified tuition program earnings, Other income., Line 8
R
Railroad retirement benefits
Treated as a pension, Fully Taxable Pensions and Annuities
Treated as social security, Lines 6a and 6b Social Security Benefits
Records, how long to keep, How Long Should Records Be Kept?
Refund, Refund, Applied to Your 2025 Estimated Tax
Refund information, Refund Information
Refund offset, Refund Offset
Refunds, credits, or offsets of state and local income taxes, Taxable Refunds, Credits, or Offsets of State and Local Income Taxes
Reservists, expenses of, Line 12
Resident aliens, Resident aliens.
Residential energy efficient property credit, Line 5a—Residential clean energy credit.
Retirement plan deduction, self-employed, Self-Employed SEP, SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans
Retirement savings contributions credit, Retirement Savings Contributions Credit (Saver's Credit)
Rollovers, IRA Distributions, Rollovers, Lump-Sum Distributions
Roth IRAs, IRA Distributions, IRA Deduction
Rounding off to whole dollars, Rounding Off to Whole Dollars
S
Saver's credit, Retirement Savings Contributions Credit (Saver's Credit)
Self-employment tax
Deduction for part of, Deductible Part of Self-Employment Tax
Separated parents, Children of divorced or separated parents.
Signing your return, Sign Your Return
Single person, Single
Social security and equivalent railroad retirement benefits, Lines 6a and 6b Social Security Benefits, Social Security Benefits Worksheet—Lines 6a and 6b
Social security number, Social Security Number (SSN), Social security number.
Standard deduction or itemized deductions,
Itemized Deductions or Standard Deduction, Standard Deduction Worksheet for Dependents—Line 12
State and local income taxes, taxable refunds, credits, or offsets of, Taxable Refunds, Credits, or Offsets of State and Local Income Taxes
Statutory employees, Were You a Statutory Employee?
Student loan interest deduction, Student Loan Interest Deduction Worksheet—Schedule 1, Line 21
Expenses, Student Loan Interest Deduction
Surviving spouse, qualifying, Qualifying Surviving Spouse
T
Tax and credits, Tax and Credits, Other Additional Taxes
Figured by the IRS, Tax, Credit figured by the IRS.
Other taxes
Alternative minimum tax, Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)
IRAs and other tax-favored accounts, Additional Tax on IRAs, Other Qualified Retirement Plans, etc.
Lump-sum distributions, Lump-Sum Distributions
Recapture, Line 17a.
Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE),
Tax help, How To Get Tax Help
Tax rate schedules,
Tax table, Tax Table
Tax Topics, Tax Topics
Third party designee, Third Party Designee
Tip income, Unreported Social Security and Medicare Tax From Form 4137
Tuition program earnings, Other income., Line 8
U
Unemployment compensation, Unemployment Compensation
V
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program (VITA),
W
Wages, Total Amount From Form(s) W-2, Box 1
What if you can't pay?, What if You Can't Pay?
What's new, What's New
When and where should you file?, When and Where Should You File?
Where Do You File, 1040 - Additional Material
Where do you file?, 1040 - Additional Material
Who must file,
Who should file, Do You Have To File?
Winnings, prizes, gambling, and lotteries (other income), Gambling.
Withholding, federal income tax, Line 25a—Form(s) W-2, Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax Payments for 2025
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
Taxpayer Bill or Rights
All taxpayers have fundamental rights they should be aware of when dealing with the IRS. The Taxpayer Bill of Rights, which the IRS adopted in June of 2014, takes existing rights in the tax code and groups them into the following 10 broad categories, making them easier to understand. Explore your rights and our obligations to protect them.
The right to be informed.
Taxpayers have the right to know what they need to do to comply with the tax laws. They are entitled to clear explanations of the laws and IRS procedures in all tax forms, instructions, publications, notices, and correspondence. They have the right to be informed of IRS decisions about their tax accounts and to receive clear explanations of the outcomes.
The right to quality service.
Taxpayers have the right to receive prompt, courteous, and professional assistance in their dealings with the IRS, to be spoken to in a way they can easily understand, to receive clear and easily understandable communications from the IRS, and to speak to a supervisor about inadequate service.
The right to pay no more than the correct amount of tax.
Taxpayers have the right to pay only the amount of tax legally due, including interest and penalties, and to have the IRS apply all tax payments properly.
The right to challenge the IRS's position and be heard.
Taxpayers have the right to raise objections and provide additional documentation in response to formal IRS actions or proposed actions, to expect that the IRS will consider their timely objections and documentation promptly and fairly, and to receive a response if the IRS does not agree with their position.
The right to appeal an IRS decision in an independent forum.
Taxpayers are entitled to a fair and impartial administrative appeal of most IRS decisions, including many penalties, and have the right to receive a written response regarding the IRS Independent Office of Appeals’ decision. Taxpayers generally have the right to take their cases to court.
The right to finality.
Taxpayers have the right to know the maximum amount of time they have to challenge the IRS’s position as well as the maximum amount of time the IRS has to audit a particular tax year or collect a tax debt. Taxpayers have the right to know when the IRS has finished an audit.
The right to privacy.
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any IRS inquiry, examination, or enforcement action will comply with the law and be no more intrusive than necessary, and will respect all due process rights, including search and seizure protections and will provide, where applicable, a collection due process hearing
The right to confidentiality.
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any information they provide to the IRS will not be disclosed unless authorized by the taxpayer or by law. Taxpayers have the right to expect appropriate action will be taken against employees, return preparers, and others who wrongfully use or disclose taxpayer return information.
The right to retain representation.
Taxpayers have the right to retain an authorized representative of their choice to represent them in their dealings with the IRS. Taxpayers have the right to seek assistance from a Low Income Taxpayer Clinic if they can't afford representation.
The right to a fair and just tax system.
Taxpayers have the right to expect the tax system to consider facts and circumstances that might affect their underlying liabilities, ability to pay, or ability to provide information timely. Taxpayers have the right to receive assistance from the Taxpayer Advocate Service if they are experiencing financial difficulty or if the IRS has not resolved their tax issues properly and timely through its normal channels.
Learn more at IRS.gov/TaxpayerRights.
Please click here for the text description of the image.
Where Do You File?
Mail your return to the address shown below that applies to you. If you want to use a private delivery service, see Private Delivery Services under Filing Requirements, earlier.
Envelopes without enough postage will be returned to you by the post office. Your envelope may need additional postage if it contains more than five pages or is oversized (for example, it is over 1/4″ thick). Also include your complete return address.
Only the U.S. Postal Service can deliver to P.O. boxes. You can't use a private delivery service to make tax payments required to be sent to a P.O. box.
THEN use this address if you:
IF you live in...
Are requesting a refund or
are not enclosing a check or
money order...
Are enclosing a check or
money order...
Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214
Alaska, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Ogden, UT 84201-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501
Arizona, New Mexico
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501
Arkansas, Oklahoma
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 931000
Louisville, KY 40293-1000
Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1214
Charlotte, NC 28201-1214
Pennsylvania
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Kansas City, MO 64999-0002
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 802501
Cincinnati, OH 45280-2501
A foreign country, U.S. territory*, or use an APO or FPO address, or file Form 2555 or 4563, or are a dual-status alien
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Austin, TX 73301-0215
Internal Revenue Service
P.O. Box 1303
Charlotte, NC 28201-1303
*If you live in American Samoa, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana Islands, see Pub. 570.
Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 06-May-2025
ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedinPrint
Footer Navigation
Our Agency
About IRS
Careers
Operations and Budget
Tax Statistics
Help
Find a Local Office
Know Your Rights
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
Taxpayer Advocate Service
Independent Office of Appeals
Civil Rights
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
Reliance on Guidance
Resolve an Issue
IRS Notices and Letters
Identity Theft
Tax scams
Tax Fraud
Criminal Investigation
Whistleblower Office
Languages
Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Pусский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
English
Other Languages
Related Sites
U.S. Treasury
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
USA.gov
USAspending.gov
Vote.gov
Subfooter
Privacy Policy
Accessibility