French Apple Cake Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Easy Apple Cake
Favorite Dutch Apple Pie
Best Angel Food Cake
Dutch Apple Cake
Jewish Apple Cake
Apple Pear Cake
Best Red Velvet Cake
The Best French Toast
Best Banana Bread Cake
Our Best Apple Desserts
Apple Walnut Cake
Best Vanilla Cake
Apple Cake for Passover
Apple German Chocolate Cake
French Chocolate Cake
Apple Harvest Cake
Light Apple Cake
Apple Snack Cake
Apple Nut Cake
Norwegian Apple Cake
Best French Apple Cake Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCakesApple Cakes
French Apple Cake
Best French Apple Cake Recipe photo by Taste of Home
5 | 2 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Bake: 50 min. + cooling
By
Molly Allen
Recipe by Test Kitchen, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Nov. 13, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
With just a few simple ingredients and your favorite baking apples, you'll have a delicious cake on the table in no time. Here's how to make this impressive French apple cake.
French apple cake is as delicious and simple as any American version, but it’s slightly lighter and a touch custardy. You may be familiar with a quick-batter apple cake made with sugar, eggs, oil, cinnamon and chopped apples. The most significant difference is that this French apple cake recipe features butter (of course, it’s French!) and dark rum, which adds an excellent flavor to the batter. Also, more apples are included here than in traditional apple cake; they poke out when it bakes, giving it an attractive craggy top.
You can use any apples you like for French apple cake recipes, but tart apples like Granny Smith nicely balance the sweetness. One of our favorite easy apple desserts, this apple French cake recipe can be on the table in less than an hour. Serve it with a scoop of vanilla or butter pecan ice cream for a special occasion or a weeknight treat.
Ingredients for French Apple Cake
Apples: The best types of apples for French apple cake should stay somewhat firm when cooked. Using flavorful, sweet-meets-tart apples with a bit of crunch is essential. Stick with Granny Smith apples for their texture, tartness and excellent flavor; Honeycrisp is another good option.
Butter: Softened butter is creamed with sugar to give this cake its light texture and excellent flavor.
Sugar: You’ll use granulated sugar to sweeten the batter and then sprinkle some on top of the cake before baking.
Eggs: Large eggs provide structure and good texture for this cake. Make sure to use room-temperature eggs for baking.
Dark rum: A small amount of dark rum plays a role in creating complex flavor. Instead of rum, you could also use brandy or whiskey.
Vanilla extract: A splash of vanilla extract adds more depth to the cake.
Flour: This recipe for French apple cake needs all-purpose flour for structure.
Baking powder: Baking powder provides leavening to help the cake rise.
Salt: A touch of salt helps balance the sweetness for better flavor.
Confectioners’ sugar: After the cake is baked and cooled, it receives a light dusting of confectioners’ sugar to dress it up.
Directions
Step 1: Cream the butter and sugar
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Preheat the oven to 350°F. In a large bowl, beat the butter and 2/3 cup sugar at medium speed for two to three minutes until fluffy.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Add the eggs one at a time until the batter is fluffy and pale in color, two to three minutes.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Beat in the dark rum and vanilla until combined.
Step 2: Add the dry ingredients
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a small bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder and salt. Gradually add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients, beating at low speed until combined, two to three minutes.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Fold in the chopped apples.
Step 3: Bake the cake
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Pour the batter into a greased 9-inch springform pan and sprinkle the top with the remaining sugar. Bake the cake until it’s golden brown and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 50 to 55 minutes.
Step 4: Let the cake cool and serve
Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool on a wire rack. Run a knife around the edge of the cake and remove the sides of the pan. Sprinkle the top with confectioners’ sugar before slicing and serving.
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
French Apple Cake Variations
Top with almonds: To spruce up the top of the cake a bit, add sliced almonds. Sprinkle them over the batter before baking the cake.
Make a square: We use a springform pan for a lovely, tall, round cake. However, you can also bake French apple cake recipes in a square 9×9-inch pan if preferred. Line the cake pan with parchment before adding the batter.
Drizzle with caramel: While this isn’t traditional, it certainly is delicious: When the cake comes out of the oven, drizzle it with caramel sauce or salted caramel sauce for extra richness and flavor.
How to Store French Apple Cake
Store apple French cake recipe leftovers in an airtight container or wrapped tightly with storage wrap or aluminum foil. The cake will last up to four days at room temperature or six days in the refrigerator.
Can you freeze French apple cake?
French apple cake freezes well so you can enjoy another slice later. Wrap the cake in storage wrap and aluminum foil. Store it in the freezer for up to two months. Allow it to thaw overnight in the refrigerator or at room temperature for a few hours.
French Apple Cake Tips
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Do you need to peel apples for French apple cake?
Most French apple cake recipes use peeled apples to avoid incorporating additional textures. However, the choice is all up to you. Peel the apples or choose to leave the peels on for a more rustic cake.
What can you serve with French apple cake?
A recipe for French apple cake pairs wonderfully with a scoop of vanilla ice cream. You could also enjoy it with fresh homemade whipped cream or a drizzle of good maple syrup.
Test Kitchen Approved
Best French Apple Cake
5 | 2 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:12 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:50 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1/2 cup butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar, divided
2 large eggs, room temperature
3 tablespoons dark rum
1-1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 cups chopped peeled apple
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. In a large bowl, beat butter and 2/3 cup sugar at medium speed until fluffy, 2-3 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, until fluffy and pale in color, 2-3 minutes. Beat in dark rum and vanilla until combined.
In a small bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder and salt. Gradually add dry ingredients; beat on low speed until just combined, 2-3 minutes. Fold in chopped apples.
Pour batter into a greased 9-in. springform pan; sprinkle with remaining sugar. Bake until cake is golden brown, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 50-55 minutes. Remove from oven; let cool on wire rack.
Run a knife around the edge of the cake; remove sides of pan. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Slice and serve.
Nutrition Facts
1 slice: 198 calories, 9g fat (5g saturated fat), 51mg cholesterol, 162mg sodium, 27g carbohydrate (18g sugars, 1g fiber), 2g protein.
Author
Molly Allen
Now a freelance writer and photographer specializing in stories about food and drink, Molly is a former bakery owner who brings her years of first-hand expertise to Taste of Home and other food-centric publications. She is a pizza oven expert having tested nine different models. She also has a passion for grilling and cooking on smokers and fire pi...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Dark rum adds richness to the natural flavor of apples in this homey and delicate cake. Serve with a fresh-brewed cup of coffee for a simply wonderful afternoon treat.
—Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box