Faculty Positions in AI for Life Sciences at Westlake University job with Westlake University School of Life Science | 12841592
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Faculty Positions in AI for Life Sciences at Westlake University
Employer
Westlake University School of Life Science
Location
Hangzhou, Zhejiang (CN)
Salary
Internationally competitive salary and startup package
Closing date
16 Mar 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Chemistry,
Computing,
Health Science,
Life Science
Job Type
Faculty Member
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Westlake University is a new type of research university in the vibrant city of Hangzhou, China. It is striving to cultivate top talent, to achieve breakthroughs in basic research and innovations in cutting-edge technologies, and to foster human development through science and technology. The School of Life Sciences is at the forefront of this mission, with an international faculty, state-of-the-art core facilities (including high-performance computing, cryo-EM, genomics, and metabolomics), and a culture of fearless, cross-disciplinary inquiry.
The School of Life Sciences invites applications for tenure-track or tenured faculty positions at all academic ranks (Assistant, Associate, or Full Professor) in the field of artificial intelligence for life sciences.
As part of a major strategic initiative, the School seeks exceptional scientists applying advanced computational methods to address fundamental questions in biology and medicine. Areas of interest include, but are not limited to, AI for structural biology, predictive genomics, systems neuroscience, and virtual cells. Candidates with strong interdisciplinary profiles at the interface of computational theory and biological applications are especially encouraged to apply.
Applicants should hold a Ph.D. degree and have significant postdoctoral experience. A demonstrated record of research excellence and a deep understanding of both AI and life sciences are essential. The School values candidates with a clear research vision and a collaborative, cross-disciplinary approach that connects multiple research groups and creates synergy.
The University Offers:
An internationally competitive salary, housing allowance, and a high-end family medical plan.
An internationally competitive start-up package with long-term research funds and ample laboratory space.
Access to cutting-edge research facilities and dedicated computational resources.
A dynamic, collegial, and English-speaking research environment with rich collaborative opportunities.
For more information about SLS, please visit us at https://sls.westlake.edu.cn/en/About/Overview/.
Applicants should submit:
Cover Letter
Curriculum Vitae
Research Statement: A concise description of your research accomplishments and future plans (max 3 pages).
Three letters of reference (to be sent directly by referees).
All application materials should be prepared in English and submitted via apply.interfolio.com/170271.
Completed applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until all positions are filled.
For inquiries or further information, please contact: sls_facultysearch@westlake.edu.cn
Informal inquiries are welcome.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Faculty Positions in AI for Life Sciences at Westlake University
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Shanghai, China
Academic Positions Available Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
Global Talent Recruitment of Shanghai University in 2025
Shanghai (CN)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software