Bang Bang Shrimp Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Party Shrimp
Fried Shrimp
Shrimp Pad Thai
Shrimp Mei Fun
Shrimp Kabobs
Easy Firecracker Shrimp
How to Make Bang Bang Shrimp Just Like Bonefish Grill
Firecracker Shrimp
Split-Second Shrimp
Shrimp Bites
Bang Bang Shrimp Cake Sliders
Shrimp Shumai
Sesame Shrimp
Shrimp Pho
Shrimp Toast
Simple Shrimp Scramble
Shrimp Rangoon
Kung Pao Shrimp
Peking Shrimp
Let's Get Together Thai Shrimp
Bang Bang Shrimp Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home
Gear
Stovetop Cookware
Skillet
Electric Skillet
Bang Bang Shrimp
Bang Bang Shrimp Recipe photo by Taste of Home
5 | 2 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 15 min. + standing Cook: 5 min./batch
By
Lauren Habermehl and Lindsay D. Mattison
Recipe by Lauren Habermehl, Pewaukee, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Jul. 22, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Copycat bang bang shrimp tastes better than the real deal at Bonefish Grill! The cornstarch-coated shrimp crisp up to perfection and the three-ingredient bang bang shrimp sauce lends a creamy, spicy, sweet coating.
No visit to Bonefish Grill would be complete without an order (or two) of the restaurant’s signature appetizer: bang bang shrimp. The crispy fried shrimp are tossed in a creamy sauce that brings enough heat to make our taste buds sing (but not enough spice to make us sweat). They’re so delicious that we needed to figure out how to make these crispy shrimp without ordering takeout. Luckily, like most restaurant copycat recipes, bang bang shrimp is surprisingly easy to make at home.
What is bang bang shrimp?
Bang bang shrimp is an appetizer created by Bonefish Grill. The restaurant’s menu describes the dish as “crispy shrimp served with our signature creamy, spicy sauce.” The shrimp dish is likely inspired by bang-bang chicken, a Sichuan recipe featuring shredded chicken smothered in a tangy, sweet, spicy sauce. The “bang bang” name comes from the tool used to pound the cooked chicken, opening it up so it can absorb the delightful sauce.
Before you wonder if you have the right instrument for the job, know that there’s no banging involved in this shrimp recipe! Simply combine the mayonnaise and chili sauces to create the creamy, spicy bang bang shrimp sauce. Then, fry the tender shrimp to crispy perfection, toss them in the sauce and enjoy.
Bang Bang Shrimp Ingredients
Shrimp: Start with shell-on shrimp if you don’t mind cleaning shrimp at home, or cut down on prep time with peeled and deveined shrimp. Either way, we like to leave the tails on, especially when serving shrimp as an appetizer. It’ll give your guests a place to grip the handheld bites.
Buttermilk: Buttermilk lightly tenderizes the shrimp and helps the cornstarch coating adhere.
Cornstarch: Cornstarch creates the lightest, crispiest coating for bang bang shrimp. Unlike all-purpose flour or panko bread crumb coatings, it stays crispy even after tossing the fried shrimp with the sauce.
Bang bang shrimp sauce: We make our copycat sauce by blending rich and creamy mayonnaise with two types of chili sauce. Sweet chili sauce adds sweet and tangy vibes, while Sriracha chili sauce brings the heat.
Oil: The best oils for frying shrimp have a neutral flavor and a high smoke point, ensuring the shrimp’s naturally sweet flavor shines through. Canola oil is an excellent all-purpose choice, or peanut oil can be used to give the shrimp a lightly nutty character.
Optional ingredients: Diced chives add fresh flavor and a pop of color to this bang bang shrimp recipe. The salad greens elevate the shrimp from the plate, ensuring the crispy coating won’t become soggy.
Directions
Step 1: Marinate the shrimp in buttermilk
Taste of Home
In a large bowl, combine the shrimp and buttermilk. Let stand for 15 minutes.
Step 2: Prepare the bang bang shrimp sauce
Taste of Home
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine the mayonnaise, chili sauce and Sriracha.
Editor’s Tip: You can make the bang bang shrimp sauce ahead of time. Store it, covered, in the refrigerator for up to one week.
Step 3: Coat the shrimp in cornstarch
Taste of Home
Drain the shrimp and discard the buttermilk. Add the cornstarch to a shallow dish. Dip the shrimp in the cornstarch to coat both sides, shaking off the excess.
Step 4: Deep-fry the shrimp
Taste of Home
In an electric skillet or deep-fat fryer, heat the oil to 375°F. Fry the shrimp in batches until golden brown, three to four minutes. Drain the fried shrimp on paper towels.
Editor’s Tip: The cornstarch coating won’t crisp properly if the oil isn’t hot enough. Use a thermometer to measure the oil’s temperature (one of our top tips for deep frying at home with confidence). If you don’t have a thermometer, heat the oil until the surface shimmers and gives off visible heat waves. Once the first batch of shrimp is cooked, wait for the oil to return to the proper temperature before adding the next batch.
Step 5: Coat the shrimp in the sauce
Taste of Home
Add the shrimp to the bowl with the sauce. Stir gently to coat. If desired, serve on salad greens and sprinkle with chives.
Recipe Variations
Flour-coated bang bang shrimp: Instead of cornstarch, coat the shrimp with all-purpose flour or a gluten-free flour blend, similar to the crispy shrimp used in this shrimp Caesar salad.
Panko-coated bang bang shrimp: Give the shrimp a crispy breaded exterior by using the panko bread crumb coating used in this air-fryer popcorn shrimp recipe.
Air-fried bang bang shrimp: Skip the deep fryer and cook the shrimp in a 375° air fryer for three to four minutes per side, similar to air-fryer coconut shrimp. This method works best with panko-coated shrimp, as the cornstarch coating can get a little messy in the air fryer.
Baked bang bang shrimp: Use a panko coating instead of a cornstarch coating. Bake the shrimp in a 400° oven for 8 to 12 minutes, just like this better than fried shrimp recipe.
How to Store Copycat Bang Bang Shrimp
Bang bang shrimp tastes best straight out of the fryer, as the crispy coating will become soggy as it sits in the refrigerator. If you plan on making leftovers, prepare the shrimp as directed, but do not toss them in the sauce. Store the shrimp in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two days. The sauce will last up to one week in a separate airtight container. To reheat, warm the shrimp in a 350° oven or 375° air fryer until heated through.
Copycat Bang Bang Shrimp Tips
What is bang bang shrimp sauce made of?
Our bang bang shrimp sauce is made with mayonnaise, sweet chili sauce and Sriracha chili sauce. The mayonnaise creates a rich, creamy base and the chili sauces add sweet, spicy and tangy flavors. The sauce tastes delicious as a coating for fried shrimp or chicken nuggets, a condiment for sliders like bang bang shrimp cake sliders or a dipping sauce for french fries.
Can you make bang bang shrimp with frozen shrimp?
You can definitely make bang bang shrimp with thawed frozen shrimp. However, the cornstarch coating won’t adhere well to frozen shrimp, so defrost the shrimp in the refrigerator overnight.
What do you serve with bang bang shrimp?
Serve bang bang shrimp over a bed of crispy salad greens as a party appetizer, or use it as the starter course for a seafood meal (perhaps including other popular Bonefish grill copycat recipes). You can also turn the crispy shrimp into a main course. Serve them over grains like herbed rice pilaf or cilantro lime rice, or stuff them inside homemade tortillas to create bang bang shrimp tacos.
Test Kitchen Approved
Bang Bang Shrimp
5 | 2 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:4 servings
Prep:15 min
Cook:5 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1 pound uncooked shrimp (26-30 per pound), peeled and deveined
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup cornstarch
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/4 cup sweet chili sauce
1/2 teaspoon Sriracha chili sauce
Oil for deep-fat frying
Optional: Minced chives and salad greens
Text Ingredients
Directions
In a large bowl, combine shrimp and buttermilk. Let stand 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine mayonnaise, chili sauce and sriracha.
Drain shrimp. Add cornstarch to a shallow dish. Dip shrimp in cornstarch to coat both sides; shake off excess.
In an electric skillet or deep-fat fryer, heat oil to 375°. Fry shrimp in batches until golden brown, 3-4 minutes. Drain on paper towels. Add shrimp to bowl with sauce. Stir gently to coat. If desired, serve on salad greens and sprinkle with chives.
Nutrition Facts
3 ounces cooked shrimp: 414 calories, 32g fat (4g saturated fat), 148mg cholesterol, 561mg sodium, 13g carbohydrate (9g sugars, 0 fiber), 19g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Author
Lindsay D. Mattison
Lindsay has been a food writer, recipe developer and product tester for seven years. She’s a culinary school graduate who specializes in sustainable food and seasonal ingredients. She draws on her professional chef background to develop recipes and help home cooks gain confidence in the kitchen. When Lindsay isn’t writing, you’ll find her coo...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This copycat recipe for the signature Bonefish Grill appetizer tastes as good—if not better—than the real deal. Crispy, fried shrimp gets covered in a mayo-based chili sauce with a slight kick from Sriracha sauce. Plus, it's super easy to make at home! —Lauren Habermehl, Pewaukee, Wisconsin
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box