Are investors really suffering because companies report earnings every 3 months? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
Are investors really suffering because companies report earnings every 3 months?
Are investors really suffering because companies report earnings every 3 months?
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 25, 2025, 12:05:00 PM
By Mark Hulbert
Rather than short-term pressure, companies typically get a long leash from hopeful shareholders
Company executives complain about short-term pressure to please Wall Street.
Is the U.S. stifling innovation and creativity by requiring companies to report earnings on a quarterly basis? That's a perennial complaint that company executives make about the intense pressure they're under to meet Wall Street's quarterly earnings expectations.
This seems plausible, since research-and-development expenditures can take many years to produce a return on investment. By being forced to cater to Wall Street's short-term obsessions, companies allegedly are forfeiting long-term potential.
Though this complaint is not new, it is receiving attention these days because of President Donald Trump's recent proposal that U.S. companies should report results semiannually.
Yet investors in fact appear to be more than willing to give money-losing companies a long leash in hopes that they eventually will become profitable.
A classic example is investors' tolerance for losses at Tesla Inc. (TSLA) The company lost money for 10 consecutive calendar years after its IPO. Yet over this period, the stock produced a cumulative return of 1,651% - equivalent to 35.1% annualized.
Tesla may be an extreme example, but it is not unique. Take the smaller companies in the Russell 2000 index RUT: Relative to the larger stocks in the S&P 500 SPX, these small stocks are earlier in their life cycles and their profit potential lies further into the future. According to FactSet, about 42% of these small companies lost money in their most recent fiscal year - and yet the Russell 2000 just hit an all-time high.
Another telling comparison is between the growth and value slices of the Russell 2000. The Russell 2000's value stocks are those for which current earnings are larger, relative to future earnings, than for their growth-stock counterparts.
If investors were obsessively focused on short-term earnings only, value stocks would be valued more highly than growth stocks - but just the opposite is the case. For example, the iShares Russell 2000 Growth ETF IWO recently traded at a price-to-earnings ratio of 28.4, double the P/E of the iShares Russell 2000 Value ETF IWN.
This contrast is not the exception but the rule, according to a 2021 article by Lucian Bebchuk, professor of law, economics and finance at Harvard Law School and director of its Program on Corporate Governance. He wrote: "Over the past two decades, as dire warnings regarding short-termism have proliferated, growth companies - whose value largely reflects expectations about their payoff in the long term - have enjoyed substantial appreciation in value. ... [They are] trading at high price/earnings ratios, reflecting the willingness of the markets to attach great value to companies on the basis of their future prospects rather than their current earnings."
U.S. versus European equities
Another revealing comparison is between the performance of the U.S. and European stock markets since 2016, the year when European companies were allowed to start reporting earnings semiannually rather than quarterly. Since then, the U.S. stock market has far outpaced Europe's.
To be sure, this comparison is more suggestive than conclusive, since other factors also played a role. The strength of the U.S. dollar DXY relative to the euro (EURUSD) until recently is one such factor; another is the outsized role that a few successful megacap stocks played in propelling the U.S. stock market higher.
Nevertheless, those who insist that quarterly reporting imposes a huge burden need to acknowledge that, at least over the past decade, this burden has been dwarfed by other factors. Accordingly, most investors can safely ignore the debate about earnings-reporting frequency.
Mark Hulbert is a regular contributor to MarketWatch. His Hulbert Ratings tracks investment newsletters that pay a flat fee to be audited. He can be reached at mark@hulbertratings.com.
Also read: Ditch quarterly earnings like Trump says? What's needed is better reporting - not less.
More: Do investors care about quarterly vs half-year reporting? Here's what the numbers say.
-Mark Hulbert
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-25-25 0805ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility