Crockpot Ranch Chicken: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Slow-Cooked Southwest Chicken
Slow-Cooker Bone-In Chicken Breast
Slow-Cooker Chicken Thighs
Slow-Cooker Chicken Casserole
Slow-Cooker Chicken Tacos
Slow-Cooker Chicken Taco Salad
Slow-Cooker Butter Chicken
Slow-Cooker Country Captain Chicken
Slow-Cooker Roast Chicken
Slow-Cooker Chicken and Rice
Slow-Cooker Cranberry Chicken
Slow-Cooker Salsa Chicken
Slow-Cooker BBQ Chicken
Slow-Cooker Sweet-and-Sour Chicken
Slow Cooker Chicken Stew
Slow-Cooker Rotisserie Chicken
Slow Cooker Chicken Dinner
Slow Cooker Southwestern Chicken Soup
Slow-Cooker Southwestern Chicken
Slow-Cooked Chicken Chili
Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Meat & Poultry
Chicken
Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken
Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken Recipe photo by Taste of Home
5 | 23 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 10 min. Cook: 7 hours
By
Risa Lichtman
Recipe by Sonya Stark, West Jordan, Utah
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on May 23, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Slow-cooker ranch chicken is perfect for busy weeknights! Tender chicken coated in a velvety sauce is always a crowd-pleaser, especially when it's topped with the decadent combo of bacon and cheddar cheese.
If you’ve got a slow cooker, we’ve got a recipe you have to try! This slow-cooker ranch chicken is a comforting meal that cooks in a single pot, minimizing the number of dishes for cleanup. Creamy, flavorful and warming, it’s one of those easy chicken dinners that’s perfect for busy weeknights.
In this recipe, chicken breasts are cooked slowly until they become tender and shreddable. Cream cheese and a can of condensed cream of chicken soup are added to give the chicken a rich, creamy consistency, and the dish is served over rice or noodles. It’s a wonderful set-it-and-forget-it meal, and it’ll make you want to keep more slow-cooker chicken breast recipes within reach!
Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken Ingredients
Chicken broth: Use store-bought chicken broth for the quickest preparation. If you prefer to make chicken broth from scratch, it will elevate all the flavors.
Ranch salad dressing mix: You can find packets of this popular seasoning mix at the grocery store, or make your own ranch dressing and dip mix.
Chicken breasts: We call for boneless skinless chicken breasts, but you can substitute boneless chicken thighs if you prefer dark meat.
Cream of chicken soup: Condensed soup is a miracle worker for casseroles and sauces. It acts as a roux (a thickening agent) to give the sauce a thick, creamy consistency. Use store-bought condensed soup or a homemade substitute for cream of chicken soup.
Cream cheese: Cream cheese melts into the sauce, giving the chicken a slightly sweet flavor and an incredible texture.
Noodles or rice: You can serve this creamy chicken over noodles or rice; they’re both delicious. If you choose noodles, consider thick egg noodles, which will give the sauce something to stick to.
Optional toppings: Add a cheesy finish with shredded cheddar cheese, or boost the savory vibes with crumbled cooked bacon and chopped green onions.
Directions
Step 1: Cook the chicken
In a 4- or 5-quart slow cooker, combine the chicken broth and ranch dressing mix. Add the chicken, and cover the slow cooker. Cook on low for six hours.
Step 2: Shred the chicken
Remove the chicken to a cutting board. Shred it with two forks, then return it to the slow cooker.
Step 3: Make the creamy sauce
Stir in the condensed soup and cream cheese. Cover and cook on low until the cream cheese is melted, about 30 minutes. Serve over rice or noodles, and add optional toppings as desired.
Recipe Variations
Add toppings: Picking out toppings has always been my favorite part! Shredded cheese, bacon and chopped scallions are classic additions. You could also add fresh herbs like parsley or dill, or garnish with sliced jalapenos for a spicy kick.
Use a whole chicken: Try making this recipe with a whole chicken instead of chicken breasts. Cook the chicken as directed, adjusting the cooking time as needed to reach 165°F (the safe internal temperature of cooked chicken). Then, you can serve the chicken in pieces or shred it like the recipe calls for.
Try a different base: Instead of noodles or rice, serve slow-cooker ranch chicken over baked potatoes or a big piece of Texas toast garlic bread. You can even pile the creamy chicken onto a bun with lettuce and melted cheese to turn it into a sandwich.
Change the soup: If you’re a fan of mushrooms, try using cream of mushroom soup instead of cream of chicken soup.
How to Store Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken
Store leftover ranch chicken in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to four days. Store the noodles or rice separately. You can also freeze ranch chicken for up to three months in a freezer-safe container. Thaw it in the fridge overnight before you plan to serve it.
Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken Tips
Taste of Home
Can you put frozen chicken in the slow cooker?
You never want to put frozen chicken in the slow cooker! Frozen meat can stay at unsafe temperatures in the slow cooker’s low-heat environment, potentially encouraging bacteria growth. Instead, thaw the chicken in the fridge overnight, or try one of these ways to defrost chicken. Check out more slow-cooker safety tips to ensure your meals are delicious and safe.
Can you cook slow-cooker ranch chicken on high for less time?
You can cook the chicken on high if you need to get this slow-cooker meal on the table more quickly. Cook the chicken, broth and dressing mix on high for three hours, then proceed with the recipe as directed.
Can you make ranch chicken on the stove?
You can make ranch chicken on the stovetop, although the dish will be slightly different. The chicken may be less tender, but it will still be tasty. Simply simmer the chicken with the broth and ranch dressing mix in a medium saucepan, covered, until the chicken is cooked through. Shred it, and return it to the pan. Add the condensed soup and cream cheese, and cook on low, stirring occasionally, until the cream cheese is melted.
What can you serve with slow-cooker ranch chicken?
A creamy dish like this calls for a fresh side dish, like steamed lemon broccoli or a side salad. It’s also delicious with garlic bread to sop up the creamy sauce.
Watch How to Make Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Slow-Cooker Ranch Chicken
5 | 23 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:8 servings
Prep:10 min
Cook:7 hours
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
3/4 cup chicken broth
1 envelope ranch salad dressing mix
2 pounds boneless skinless chicken breast halves
1 can (10-1/2 ounces) condensed cream of chicken soup, undiluted
1 package (8 ounces) cream cheese, cubed and softened
Hot cooked noodles or rice
Optional: Shredded cheddar cheese, crumbled cooked bacon and chopped green onions
Text Ingredients
Directions
In a 4- or 5-qt. slow cooker, combine broth and dressing mix; add chicken. Cover and cook on low for 6 hours. Remove chicken to cutting board; shred with 2 forks and return to slow cooker.
Stir in soup and cream cheese. Cover and cook on low until cream cheese is melted, about 30 minutes. Serve over rice or noodles. Add optional toppings as desired.
Nutrition Facts
2/3 cup: 267 calories, 15g fat (7g saturated fat), 94mg cholesterol, 776mg sodium, 7g carbohydrate (1g sugars, 1g fiber), 25g protein.
Author
Risa Lichtman
Risa is a recipe developer, food writer, trained chef and activist. When she’s not writing about cooking techniques and creating recipes for Taste of Home, she’s running her food and drink business, spending time with her wife and pets, and running a soup group.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This is a fabulous slow-cooker ranch chicken recipe that we have passed around to all our friends, especially those who have young children. It's wonderful for a cold winter night or a hot summer day when you don't want to turn on the oven. Serve it as a weeknight family dinner or for a large group. —Sonya Stark, West Jordan, Utah
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box