Microsoft adds malicious link warnings to Teams private chats
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
FBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce data
New VoidProxy phishing service targets Microsoft 365, Google accounts
Save 60% on a refurbished Apple’s 2021 MacBook Pro M1
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityMicrosoft adds malicious link warnings to Teams private chats
Microsoft adds malicious link warnings to Teams private chats
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 11, 2025
01:21 PM
0
Microsoft Teams will automatically alert users when they send or receive a private message containing links that are tagged as malicious.
Microsoft will introduce these new warnings for messages containing URLs that have been flagged as spam, phishing, or malware, for all Microsoft Defender for Office 365 (MDO) and Microsoft Teams enterprise customers.
The new link protection feature will begin rolling out with a public preview for desktop, Android, web, and iOS users in September 2025 and is expected to reach general availability in November 2025, according to a recent Microsoft 365 roadmap entry.
"To help users stay protected from malicious content, we're introducing message warnings in Microsoft Teams," the company explained in an incident alert published in the Microsoft 365 message center on Wednesday.
"This new feature displays a warning banner on messages containing URLs flagged as Spam, Phish, or Malware—whether the message is internal or external. These warnings enhance user awareness and complement existing security protections like Safe Links and ZAP."
Malicious URL warning in Teams (Microsoft)
​Admins can opt in to enable this new feature in public preview by using the toggle available in the Teams Admin Center > Messaging settings.
Malicious URL warnings will be displayed directly on the message and will be enabled by default after the feature reaches general availability, with management options available via the Teams Admin Center or PowerShell (with the Teams module).
As Redmond explains, if at least one tenant has the feature enabled, the message warnings will be active across the entire tenant.
Microsoft also announced last month that it's working to boost protection against dangerous file types and malicious URLs in Teams chats and channels.
Additionally, it noted that Teams will allow security administrators to block incoming communications from a list of blocked domains and delete existing chat messages from users in blocked domains through the Microsoft Defender portal.
Redmond announced at last year's Enterprise Connect conference that Teams had reached over 320 million monthly active users across 181 markets.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft Teams to protect against malicious URLs, dangerous file typesAttackers exploit link-wrapping services to steal Microsoft 365 loginsMicrosoft: Anti-spam bug blocks links in Exchange Online, TeamsMicrosoft shares workaround for Teams "couldn't connect" errorNew Ghost Calls tactic abuses Zoom and Microsoft Teams for C2 operations
Defender for Office 365
Microsoft Defender
Microsoft Teams
URL
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft fixes Exchange Online outage affecting users worldwide
U.S. Senator accuses Microsoft of “gross cybersecurity negligence”
New VMScape attack breaks guest-host isolation on AMD, Intel CPUs
Sponsor Posts
Spot Hidden Gaps with Action1’s Free Initial Vulnerability Assessment for Unlimited Endpoints
How to tell if your organization’s credentials have been exposed?
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT