Jimmy Kimmel Will Return to ABC on Tuesday, Disney Says - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
Jimmy Kimmel is returning to ABC on Tuesday, Disney says
By
Sydney Bradley
and
Kelsey Vlamis
Jimmy Kimmel was reinstated after being pulled off the air "indefinitely" by ABC.
Randy Holmes/ABC via Getty Images
2025-09-22T22:23:21Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Jimmy Kimmel's show is returning after ABC pulled it from the air last week.
Kimmel's suspension came following pressure from the FCC and Nexstar.
Disney said the show would return on Tuesday.
After ABC's decision last week to pull Jimmy Kimmel off the air "indefinitely," he's coming back.
On Monday, Disney, which owns ABC, said the "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" host would return and the show would resume on Tuesday."Last Wednesday, we made the decision to suspend production on the show to avoid further inflaming a tense situation at an emotional moment for our country. It is a decision we made because we felt some of the comments were ill-timed and thus insensitive," the Walt Disney Company said in a statement. "We have spent the last days having thoughtful conversations with Jimmy, and after those conversations, we reached the decision to return the show on Tuesday."
Kimmel's suspension following his on-air comments about Charlie Kirk had become a cultural flash point in recent days, drawing rebukes from the Hollywood community and free speech advocates on both sides of the political aisle. It also showcased the complex dynamics of the broadcast TV business and the new pressure playbook of Federal Communications Commission chair Brendan Carr.ABC's decision both to suspend Kimmel and then to put him back on the air demonstrates how heated the cultural conversation around Kirk's death — and what comments about it are considered acceptable — has become. Other companies like Microsoft and The Washington Post have also taken action against employees for their commentary following the killing of the conservative activist and influencer.Hollywood heavyweights like comedian Ben Stiller and "Star Wars" star Mark Hamill posted jubilantly on social media in reaction to Kimmel's return, as did political figures like California Gov. Gavin Newsom.
Andrew Kolvet, spokesman for Turning Point USA, the conservative organization founded by Kirk, wrote that Disney and ABC "caving" and letting Kimmel "back on the air is not surprising, but it's their mistake to make."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Disney stock pared losses of roughly 2% after the news broke, closing 1% lower for the day.
Get caught up on the fallout over Jimmy Kimmel’s suspension:A $6.2 billion deal loomed over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionBeyond Kimmel: The soft pressure that's silencing business'We vote with our dollars': People are boycotting Disney and canceling their streaming subscriptionsJimmy Kimmel's suspension fits squarely into the FCC's new pressure playbookWe went to the protest over Jimmy Kimmel’s suspension. It got so big, Disney shut its gates.
The controversy started on Wednesday, September 17, when Carr took aim at Kimmel's comments about Kirk's death. Carr described Kimmel's comments as "sickest conduct possible" in an interview and said that the FCC would potentially need to review broadcast licenses.
"We had some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them," Kimmel had said on air Monday, September 15. The segment included additional comments about President Donald Trump.Hours after Carr's comments on Wednesday, ABC suspended Kimmel following pressure from Sinclair and Nexstar, two major companies that own ABC affiliate stations. The situation had particularly high stakes for Nexstar, which is seeking the FCC's approval for a $6.2 billion M&A deal.On Monday, following Disney's announcement that Kimmel would be back on air, Carr referred Business Insider to comments he made earlier that day. In those, Carr said Democrats had misconstrued his comments, and said the FCC was trying to "empower local TV stations to serve the needs of the local communities."
Following Kimmel's suspension, Sinclair said that it wouldn't air Kimmel's show on its stations until "appropriate steps" were taken. Sinclair's demands included an apology from Kimmel to Kirk's family and a donation to Kirk's family and Turning Point USA.It's unclear whether Nexstar will air the show on its ABC affiliate stations. Nexstar didn't immediately respond to requests for comment."Beginning Tuesday night, Sinclair will be preempting 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' across our ABC affiliate stations and replacing it with news programming," Sinclair said in a statement posted to X. "Discussions with ABC are ongoing as we evaluate the show's potential return."
Politicians like former President Barack Obama, and key figures in Hollywood were critical of ABC's decision to pull Kimmel off the air. Late-night television hosts from Stephen Colbert to Seth Meyers reacted to Kimmel's suspension during their scheduled Thursday night shows. A protest outside Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, California, took place on Thursday, too."This is a big moment in our democracy, and we must all stand up for the principles of free expression," Meyers said on air. "There's a reason free speech is in the very first amendment. It stands above all others."After Kimmel's reinstatement, FCC commissioner Anna Gomez, a Biden appointee who has criticized Carr for politicizing the agency, said in a statement that she was "glad to see Disney find its courage in the face of clear government intimidation."
Recommended video
ABC
Disney
President Trump
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account