Recruitment of Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars job with State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University | 12832156
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Recruitment of Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars
Employer
State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University
Location
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
Salary
Competitive salary
Closing date
9 Nov 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Applied Science,
Chemistry,
Engineering,
Environmental Science
Job Type
Professor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
The State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering (MCE) of Nanjing Tech University (NJTech) was established in October, 2007, with the official approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China. The chief scientist is Academician Xu Nanping. The director of MCE is Prof. Jin Wanqin. The main discipline of Chemical Engineering and Technology, for which MCE was built, originated from the Departments of Chemical Engineering at former National Central University and Jinling University, and is one of the earliest chemical engineering disciplines in China. As one of the first group of national key disciplines approved in 2007, our discipline was rated A in the fourth round of discipline evaluation by the Ministry of Education in 2017, and ranked 3rd in the best subject ranking lists in China. With the great support of MCE, NJTech has entered the top 1‰ globally in its ESI comprehensive ranking, Chemistry ranking, and Material ranking.
MCE’s main academic thoughts are based on the “applications of chemical engineering principles and methodologies to the development and processing of novel materials” and the “development of advanced chemical engineering unit operation technologies and theories based on new materials”. The program aims to resolve the bottleneck problems in energy, resources and environment that are restraining the sustainable development of processing industry, through exploiting the relations between the functions, structures and applications of the materials. Under the national goal of carbon peaking and carbon neutrality, MCE aims for the efficient utilization and substitution of carbon-containing mineral resources in the process industry as its primary goal, developing the equipment and technology of low-carbon process industry via process reengineering. MCE drives integrated research through interdisciplinary subjects (Chemical Engineering and Technology, Bioengineering and Technology, Materials Science and Engineering, Energy and Environment), elite scientists worldwide, and talents from prestigious international scientific institutions. Through years of development, MCE has formed a research team with 3 academicians as leaders and nearly 200 full-time personnel, among whom 66 are members of national-level talent programs. MCE also boasts the “Special Separation Membrane” innovation group supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China, 4 innovation teams funded by the Ministry of Education, and innovation teams in key areas funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology.
MCE leads cutting-edge research in the areas of membrane materials and processes, bio-based materials, cementing materials, and mesoscale transfer. In recent years, MCE has made new breakthroughs in the fields of hydrogen energy, battery materials, and integrated coupling technology based on new materials. In the past decade, MCE has undertaken a number of national-level major research projects, including 2 NSFC major projects, 9 national “973” projects, and 24 national key R&D projects. The research accomplishments have been published under influential research articles in top-notch journals such as Nature and Science, and 18 national science and technology awards have been awarded, and accumulated economic benefits of tens of billions in CNY, realizing the direct contribution of original achievements to the national economy. MCE has significantly improved its domestic and international status and influence in related disciplines, and plays an important role in developing national science and technology, promoting social progress and economic growth, and safeguarding national security.
MCE is unique in the industrialization of fundamental research results. MCE has cooperated with a number of local governments and industry leaders in building innovation platforms, and has formed a set of incentive mechanisms for the industrialization of achievements in scientific research. MCE has implemented over 1,000 scientific and technological achievements, and cultivated more than 10 listed companies including JIUWU HI-TECH. The economic benefits generated reach tens of billions of CNY. For instance, MCE has successfully developed specialty fertilizer for rice using bio-based materials, which was designated by Academician Yuan Longping as the specialty fertilizer for “super hybrid rice”. At present, 20% of special compound fertilizers produced in China have adopted this technology. MCE has also developed the world’s first complete set of engineering technology for zero discharge of pulping tail water based on membrane separation technique. MCE solves social development problems by means of technology, which has been fully receives wide recognition by all sectors of society.
MCE aims for the strategic goals of internationalization, strengthening international cooperation, and building a platform for the introduction and cooperation of overseas talents, having devised the means for engaging prominent overseas talents effectively. MCE has hosted a series of important international academic conferences on material and chemical engineering, such as ICOM2014, PPEPPD2010, ISIM2013, AMS2013 and SCPPE2016, and undertaken 15 international cooperation projects, such as NSFC projects for International (Regional) Cooperation and Exchange, and NSFC projects for Joint Research Fund for Overseas Chinese, Hong Kong and Macao Scholars. MCE has also carried out extensive cooperative research with more than 20 famous overseas universities and research institutions.
MCE sincerely invites talents from all over the world to form a scientific and technological innovation team with international influence in the field of Materials-orientated Chemical Engineering.
Application requirements
1. Candidates should love the cause of higher education, have good personal morality, abide by the law, be strict with themselves, and abide by professional ethics;
2. Candidates should have a doctorate degree from well-known universities at home and abroad, and have more than 2 years of continuous overseas research work experience, especially excellent overseas talents, the conditions can be relaxed
3. Candidates are generally under the age of 40, have strong academic influence and competitiveness in the research field, and have outstanding academic development potential; Candidates with strong competitiveness in applying for NSFC Excellent Young Scholars Fund (overseas) are preferred.
4. Candidates should have a stable and independent research direction in line with the development of MCE, and be capable of solidarity and cooperation with other research groups.
Working conditions and living benefits
1. Young academic talents (overseas applicants for the National Natural Science Foundation of China Excellent Young Scholars Fund)
Talents successfully selected by NSFC Excellent Young Scholars Fund (overseas) as an employee of NJTech will qualify for the following benefits:
Ⅰ. Salary and benefits
NJTech provides an annual salary of at least 800,000 CNY, a settling fee of 1 to 2 million CNY, and a scientific research start-up fund of 2 million CNY (excluding national funding). Specific benefits are negotiable on an individual basis.
Ⅱ. Appointment position
Selected candidates will be appointed as a professor, granted the qualification of doctoral supervision, and provided with the enrollment indicators for doctoral students.
Ⅲ. Working conditions
NJTech provides ample space for laboratories and offices.
MCE supports the creation and organization of academic teams by “attracting talents with talents”, and there is no limit to the number of formal team members, including postdoctoral and doctoral students. Evaluation is conducted on the team as a whole.
500,000 CNY has been fully granted for the Key Overseas Talent Introduction Plan of Jiangsu province.
Ⅳ. Living conditions
NJTech offers on-campus transitional apartments for 3–5 years that come fully furnished and ready for move-in.
NJTech will assist with the spouse’s job placement.
The children of the talented individuals will be recommended to enroll in the affiliated Experimental Primary School of NJTech, which is a public provincial experimental primary school.
Ⅴ. Entrepreneurial support
2. Other young talents
Ⅰ. Salary and benefits
Outstanding young talents：NJTech provides an annual salary of at least 600,000 CNY, a settling fee of 1 to 3 million CNY, and a scientific research start-up fund of 1 to 6 million CNY. The specific benefits are negotiable on an individual basis.
Excellent young researchers(A): NJTech provides an annual salary of at least 360,000 CNY, a settling fee of 800,000 to 1,000,000 CNY, and a scientific research start-up fund of 800,000 to 1,500,000 CNY. The specific benefits are negotiable on an individual basis.
Excellent young researchers(B): NJTech provides an annual salary of at least 300,000 CNY, a settling fee of 500,000 to 800,000 CNY, and a scientific research start-up fund of 400,000 to 1,000,000 CNY. The specific benefits are negotiable on an individual basis.
Ⅱ.  Project Support:
The university implements the "Young Talent Extension Project", which is linked to the national and provincial talent plans. It prioritizes overseas high-level talents and Ph.D. from well-known universities who meet the criteria of national and provincial talent plans and provides corresponding supporting funds to the selected talent schools.
Ⅲ. Achievement transformation:
As a pioneering university of "30 Articles of Scientific and Technological Reform" in Jiangsu Province, our university actively advocates the reform of "three rights" and introduces a novel approach of confirming rights prior to transferring them. Under this system, 90% of the rights and interests of scientific and technological achievements are granted to the individual who completed the work, and talents are incentivized to value their accomplishments as shares in enterprises.
Additional supports of MCE
The university introduced the 《Several Policies on Strengthening the Construction of the Special Talent Zone for the State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering》 to lead and promote the construction of the talent special zone of the State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering. The talent special zone sets up independent high-level talent introduction indicators, establishes green channels for talent introduction, sets up special funds for talent introduction, grants independent professional title evaluation and the right to hire doctoral tutors, and allocates graduate student quotas separately.
MCE provides additional financial support for talents in terms of scientific research platforms and scientific research funds. MCE affords 300,000–2 million CNY financial support according to their future research plan.
MCE has jointly built several innovation bases with other research institutions, providing good platforms for technology development and industrial application.
MCE has co-constructed several provincial key primary and secondary schools, e.g., Jiangbei No. 1 Middle School in Nanjing, which provides great convenience for the talents’ children.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Recruitment of Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Shanghai, China
Global Talent Recruitment of Shanghai University in 2025
Shanghai (CN)
Linyi University 2025 Staff Recruitment Announcement (Long-Term Positions)
Linyi, Shandong (CN)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software