A Chinese AI tool can manage chronic disease — could it revolutionize health care?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
19 September 2025
A Chinese AI tool can manage chronic disease — could it revolutionize health care?
Artificial intelligence could reduce the strain that ageing populations put on medical systems.
By
Mohana Basu
Mohana Basu
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Estimate suggest more than 180 million older people in China live with chronic diseases.Credit: Wang Zhao/AFP via GettyA Chinese firm has developed a massive artificial intelligence-powered platform to help manage the health of people with chronic diseases. Details of the large language model (LLM), called XingShi, are sparse, but the company behind it, Fangzhou, says the model integrates speech and image recognition with natural language processing, extensive medical data and reasoning to improve personalized care and boost the productivity of clinicians. The company says that the system has more than 50 million registered users, and more than 200,000 physicians using the platform.Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risksFangzhou, based in Guangdong, is a pioneer in AI in health care, says Marina Zhang, a science-policy researcher at the University of Technology Sydney in Australia, who focuses on innovation in China.China, like many nations, has a high prevalence of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory disorders and diabetes1. Estimates suggest that some 180 million older adults in the country live with chronic diseases2, and that number is likely to increase as the population ages. There’s hope that AI could help to reduce the strain that managing large populations of people with chronic diseases puts on health-care systems.Government supportIn 2017, the Chinese government announced its intention to become the world leader in AI by 2030. Since then, hundreds of the country’s universities have begun offering undergraduate degrees in AI. Government investment, in the form of scholarships and research grants, has encouraged the forging of partnerships between industry and academia. Last month, the Chinese government announced an ‘AI Plus’ initiative, which is intended to promote the integration of AI in a range of fields. Support for AI technology has also included tax cuts and subsidies.Zhang says Fangzhou has also tapped into an under-explored market. “One critical problem driving China’s mounting economic pressures is lack of consumption. Many reasons can explain why this is the case, but fundamentally, people who have money actually do not want to spend,” she says. Older, wealthier populations are particularly unwilling to spend, she says. Combining health care, the care of older people and AI could encourage this demographic to spend on health management and lifestyle interventions.AI in health care
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02362-8
ReferencesSu, B., Guo, S. & Zheng, X. China CDC Wkly 5, 1131–1134 (2023).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Su, B. et al. J. Am. Med. Dir. Assoc. 24, 206–212 (2023).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
This AI tool predicts your risk of 1,000 diseases — by looking at your medical records
AI-generated medical data can sidestep usual ethics review, universities say
Medical AI can transform medicine — but only if we carefully track the data it touches
Subjects
Diseases
Ageing
Health care
Latest on:
Diseases
Can AI chatbots trigger psychosis? What the science says
News 18 SEP 25
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
News 17 SEP 25
Ageing
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
News 17 SEP 25
Diabetes drug shows anti-ageing effects on chromsomes
Research Highlight 05 SEP 25
Newfound immune cell in mice hints at why inflammation spikes with old age
News 04 SEP 25
Health care
Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
News 20 SEP 25
A plant-forward menu is linked to lower diabetes risk
Research Highlight 17 SEP 25
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
Related Articles
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
This AI tool predicts your risk of 1,000 diseases — by looking at your medical records
AI-generated medical data can sidestep usual ethics review, universities say
Medical AI can transform medicine — but only if we carefully track the data it touches
Subjects
Diseases
Ageing
Health care
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited