Best Mortgage Lenders in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET Money
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners. Review CNET's ethics statement.
Money Mortgages
Best Mortgage Lenders in 2025
Purchasing a house this year? We rounded up a list of the best mortgage lenders to help you get a better deal on your future home loan.
Our Experts
Written by
Katherine Watt
Article updated on January 2, 2025 at 8:44 AM PST
Katherine Watt Former Staff Writer Katherine Watt is a former CNET Money writer focusing on mortgages, home equity and banking. She previously wrote about personal finance for NextAdvisor. Based in New York, Katherine graduated summa cum laude from Colgate University with a bachelor's degree in English literature.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Table of Contents
Best Mortgage Lenders in 2025
Best mortgage lenders of 2025
Guaranteed Rate
Rocket Mortgage
Veterans United Home Loans
PNC Bank
Navy Federal Credit Union
PennyMac
Citi
U.S. Bank
LoanDepot
Truist
How to find the best mortgage lender for your situation
Why it’s important to compare offers from multiple lenders
Mortgage rate trends
What factors affect my mortgage rate?
Other mortgage resources
Methodology
FAQs
Choosing the right mortgage lender could save you tens of thousands of dollars in loan costs, whether in the form of a lower interest rate or more affordable closing costs. You also want to seek out a lender who puts you at ease by providing expert guidance and streamlining the loan process. Although mortgage rates are starting to fall, you don’t need to rush out and go with the first lender you find. Instead, I recommend comparing loan offers from at least two to three different lenders before making your decision. Each one will offer different rates and loan terms based on factors like your credit score, income and down payment, so it can pay to shop around. I also know that with hundreds of lending options available, starting the process can be overwhelming. So I did some of the heavy lifting for you and rounded up 10 of the best mortgage lenders to help you find your match. To do so, I evaluated dozens of banks, credit unions and online lenders based on various factors, including pricing transparency, accessibility, range of loan types and customer satisfaction.
“While mortgage rates may continue to trend down in the coming months, it’ll be a slow process, so don’t expect a big drop right away. Instead, think about whether it makes sense to lock in a lower, but not perfect, rate now or wait for rates to fall further over time.”
Matt Vernon, Head of consumer lending at Bank of America
Best mortgage lenders of 2025Lender Credit requirements Down payment minimums Guaranteed Rate 620 for conventional loans and FHA loans, 580 for VA loans 3% for conventional loans, 3.5% for FHA loans, none for VA and USDA loans Rocket Mortgage 620 for conventional loans, 680 for jumbo loans, 580 for FHA and VA loans 3% for conventional loans, 10%-15% for jumbo loans, 3.5% for FHA loans, none for VA loans Veterans United Home Loans 620 for conventional and VA loans 3% for conventional loans, 3.5% for FHA loans, none for VA and USDA loans PNC Bank 620 for conventional, jumbo, and FHA loans, 640 for USDA loans 3% for conventional loans, 3.5% for FHA loans Navy Federal Credit Union Not disclosed 3% for conventional loans, none for VA loans PennyMac Loan Services 620 for conventional loans, 580 for FHA loans, 620 for VA loans 3% for conventional loans, 3.5% for FHA loans, none for VA and USDA loans Citi 620 for conventional loans, 680 for jumbo loans, 620 for FHA and VA loans 3% through Citibank’s HomeRun Mortgage LoanDepot 620 for conventional loans, 700 for jumbo loans, 580 for FHA loans, 620 for VA loans 3.5% for FHA loans, none for VA loans U.S. Bank 620 for conventional loans, 740 for jumbo loans 3% for conventional loans, 3.5% for FHA loans, none for VA and USDA loans Truist 620 for conventional loans Not disclosed
Photo Gallery 1/1
Guaranteed Rate
Guaranteed Rate stands out to us for its nationwide availability, depth of loan offerings and proven record quality customer service. The lender’s smooth online experience and fast closings also help make it a good option for most borrowers.  ... Show more
Rocket Mortgage/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Rocket Mortgage/ CNET
Rocket Mortgage
Rocket Mortgage stands out for the company’s high level of customer satisfaction and excellent online user experience. We also like the lender’s wide range of loan offerings as well its transparency regarding rates and fees.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Veterans United Home Loans
Veterans United Home Loans offers a variety of mortgage products, but it’s likely best suited for eligible borrowers looking to obtain a VA loan. We ranked Veterans United highly for its customer satisfaction, smooth online application and its wealth of educational content about the mortgage and homebuying process.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
PNC Bank
PNC Bank offers a long list of mortgage options in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The lender ranked well for its price transparency, accessibility and customer satisfaction. It may be an especially good option for first-time homebuyers who need a government-sponsored loan or borrowers who qualify for the Community Loan program.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Navy Federal Credit Union
With its expertise in the military community and low-cost mortgage options, Navy Federal Credit Union is a good option for eligible borrowers. We like Navy Federal for its price transparency, streamlined application process and loan product variety.
... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
PennyMac
PennyMac stands out for its overall online experience. The lender features daily rate updates and customizable rate quotes on its website. PennyMac some customer benefits in the form of preapproval discounts and ranks among the top lenders for customer satisfaction.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Citi
We like Citi for its nationwide availability, price transparency and customer satisfaction. The lender also incentives borrowers with its relationship pricing offerings and low-down payment mortgage option.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
U.S. Bank
U.S. Bank offers a variety of mortgage types and an easy, digital application process. You also have the option to visit a physical branch for more assistance in 26 states. The bank stands out to us as an all-around good option for new or existing U.S. Bank customers. The main drawback is that you can’t get a rate and fee estimate without getting prequalified.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
LoanDepot
LoanDepot is a solid lender that offers help both online and in person at more than 200 offices nationwide. The website offers a lot of general information on the homebuying process, but it falls short on price transparency. Your best bet is to call the lender to receive a rate quote and information on fees you might pay.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Truist
We like Truist for its easy-to-use online application process, rate transparency and solid menu of  mortgage products. Truist is also a full-service bank, which means you can conveniently handle your day-to-day banking and mortgage payments in one place, and there are thousands of physical branches where you can get in-person help. Truist comes ranks well in J.D. Power’s average for customer service satisfaction, but falls below other lenders on this list.  ... Show more
How to find the best mortgage lender for your situation
Outside of price and lender reliability, narrowing down your choice comes down to what is best for you and your personal circumstances. Depending on your goals and needs as a borrower, one lender could be a better fit than another. For example, a first-time homebuyer struggling to meet down payment requirements can look into lenders with down payment assistance programs. Another borrower may have a low credit score and need a lender with a lower credit threshold.Here are some factors to consider when choosing a mortgage lender.Types of mortgages available
One of the first steps in choosing a lender is figuring out who offers the type of mortgage you need.
If you have blemishes on your credit report, like bankruptcy, then an FHA loan is likely to be easier to qualify for than conventional loans. Other loans, such as USDA and VA loans, offer 100% financing with no down payment required, although some lenders may have their own down payment requirements.
The loan repayment term can also affect the lender you choose. Most lenders offer 15-year or 30-year mortgages, but if you want a 10-year or a 40-year mortgage, your options will be more limited. Loan officer experience
The biggest mortgage lenders have hundreds of locations and are staffed by thousands of loan originators. So, within the same lender, you could have a wildly different experience depending on the individual loan officer you work with.
Talk with a loan officer to evaluate their experience that could be relevant to your situation. For example, if you’re applying for a VA loan or FHA loan, try working with a loan officer who’s familiar with those types of mortgages. Homebuyer assistance programs
These programs can provide you with thousands of dollars to put toward your down payment and closing costs. For many first-time homebuyers, this assistance is critical. As you’re comparing lenders, be sure to ask if they have these types of programs.
"Don’t get distracted by just the rate. A lot of buyers fall into the trap of rate shopping without considering the full picture -- like closing costs, lender fees, their monthly payment and the kind of service they’re getting. In a competitive market, working with a lender who can close deals fast and communicate well with all parties can make or break your offer."
Nicole Rueth, SVP of the Rueth Team Powered by Movement Mortgage
Why it’s important to compare offers from multiple lenders
Comparing offers is important because each lender will evaluate your financial situation differently. First, you’ll want to compare credit unions, banks and mortgage brokers. Provide the same information to each lender to get a more accurate comparison.Second, make sure you receive a loan estimate form — a document that outlines the interest rates and fees — from each lender. Lenders must adhere to what they disclose on a loan estimate, protecting you from any fee increases later on in the process.To secure the best rate, fees and terms, compare at least three different quotes.Comparing ratesA difference of 0.50% on your mortgage rate doesn’t sound like much, but it can save you thousands of dollars over the life of your loan.Take this example on a 30-year fixed, $300,000 loan: Interest rate Monthly principal and interest payment Total interest over loan’s life Loan A 3.6% $1,363 $191,285 Loan B 3.1% $1,281 $161,189With this example, a 0.50% difference in interest rate is the difference of $82 a month. Over a 30-year loan, that difference amounts to $30,096 in interest.Comparing lender feesSecuring the lowest interest rate isn’t the only factor to consider when comparing mortgage lenders. Two lenders can advertise the same mortgage rate but charge wildly different closing fees. A low rate with high closing costs can eat away at the savings you were supposed to get.One way to evaluate the difference between offers is to look at a mortgage loan APR. The APR factors in many of the loan’s fees, in addition to the interest rate, over the loan’s full term.Take this example on a 30-year fixed, $200,000 loan: Interest rate Closing costs APR Loan A 3.000% $6,000 3.233% Loan B 3.125% $2,000 3.204%Loan A is the more tempting offer since it has a lower interest rate, but it has higher lender fees. Loan B may be overlooked because of its higher interest rate, but it has lower lender fees and a lower overall APR.The best approach is to do research, narrow down to two or three lenders, get prequalified with each one and compare the loan estimates side by side. Pro Tip Each application may trigger a hard inquiry on your credit reports, but credit-scoring companies know consumers shop around. Experian will treat all mortgage inquiries made within 30 days as just one inquiry. FICO will do the same within a 45-day period. Try to submit your mortgage applications within this window to minimize the impact on your credit. Mortgage rate trends
Since early 2022, mortgage rates have increased significantly due to inflation and a series of interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve. With inflation under control and the Fed pivoting toward rate cuts, mortgage rates have already started to drop from this year’s highs. How low rates fall will depend on how quickly the Fed lowers rates and the evolving economic outlook. Most economic projections call for average mortgage rates to move close to 6% by the end of 2024. What factors affect my mortgage rate?
A lender may advertise rates on its website, but that’s likely not the rate you’ll end up qualifying for. Your interest rate may be higher or lower depending on a variety of factors.Credit score: The higher your credit score, the lower your interest rate. You may be able to qualify for a mortgage credit score under 700, but you’ll pay a premium for the loan. To get the lowest mortgage rate, you’ll want a credit score of 740 or higher. Building your credit score can take some time, but it can make homeownership much more affordable in the long run.Loan-to-value ratio: Your LTV ratio is the size of your mortgage — or if you’re refinancing, how much equity you have in your home — compared with the value of the property. The larger your down payment is, the lower your LTV will be. An LTV of 80% or less (meaning you have a down payment of at least 20%) will help you secure the best mortgage rate and allow you to avoid paying private mortgage insurance on conventional loans.Debt-to-income ratio: How much debt you have will limit the amount you can borrow and impact your mortgage interest rate. Because your mortgage is paid monthly, lenders typically look at your monthly debt payments and calculate it as a percentage of your income. This is known as your debt-to-income ratio, or DTI. The maximum allowable DTI varies by loan type and lender. A good DTI target is 36% or less, and it should include your future mortgage payment.Income: Proof of stable and consistent income is an important factor. Certain types of employment, such as self-employed or commission-based pay, could factor into a loan approval and rate offer. In the eyes of the lender, some borrowers are seen as a riskier investment and may want the borrower to pay more for that risk. Other mortgage resources
CNET Mortgage CalculatorCompare Current Mortgage RatesCompare Current Refinance Rates How to Get a Mortgage in 10 Steps Methodology
We evaluated a range of lenders based on such factors as nationwide availability, loan product variety, online convenience, customer satisfaction, and transparency regarding rates and fees. Our list doesn’t take into account factors such as mortgage rates and APRs because those depend on market conditions and your individual creditworthiness.Nationwide availability: We took into account a lender’s geographic footprint when compiling this list. We looked for lenders that operate in most, if not all, US states.Loan product variety: We evaluated a lender based on its loan product menu and the variety of products offered. Lenders who offered most or all mortgage products available stood out to us.Transparency: Mortgage lenders’ transparency regarding mortgage rates, lender fees and credit check requirements for those rates and fees was also important. We looked for lenders who made it easy for customers to access daily mortgage rates and lender fees online without requiring a credit check to do so.Online convenience: When evaluating each lender, we paid attention to the ease, or difficulty, of its mortgage application. We looked for lenders who offered a completely digital mortgage application process for ultimate convenience. In addition, we noted whether the online process was streamlined or full of hiccups for the applicant.Customer satisfaction: To measure customer satisfaction, we relied on the J.D. Power and Associates 2022 Mortgage Origination survey, which ranks lenders based on their customer satisfaction scores. We also considered a company’s Better Business Bureau rating for additional context. We looked for lenders who had above-average scores on the J.D. Power survey in addition to a solid BBB rating. FAQs
What is the easiest type of loan to get approved for?
Government-backed mortgages, such as FHA, USDA and VA loans, are generally easier to get approved for than conventional loans because they have more flexible credit score and down payment requirements. FHA loans, in particular, are a great option for first-time homebuyers with a low credit score and minimal down payment savings. Backed by the Federal Housing Administration, FHA loans offer 3.5% down payment options for those with credit scores of 580 or above.    VA loans are backed by the US Department of Veterans Affairs and have no down payment requirement. There is also no minimum credit score as the minimum required score varies by lender, but many lenders like to see a credit score of at least 640 or higher. To qualify for a VA loan, you must be an active or retired US military member or spouse of one.    Backed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, USDA loans are intended for low- to moderate-income homebuyers in rural areas. They offer 100% financing, meaning you don’t need to make a down payment upfront. What credit score do I need for a mortgage loan?
Most conventional loans require a credit score of 620 or higher, but FHA and other loan types may accommodate borrowers with scores as low as 500, depending on the lender.   For most conventional loans, you’ll need a credit score of 620 or higher. FHA loans and other loans accommodate borrowers with scores as low as 500. Is it better to use a mortgage lender or a bank?
Both private mortgage lenders and banks offer mortgages with rates and terms that depend on your credit score and other financial details. One isn’t objectively better than the other. Whether you go with a bank or a private lender depends on your financial situation and what type of loan you need.    Traditional banks tend to have stricter credit requirements and fewer loan options than private lenders because they’re subject to federal compliance and reporting laws. Many buyers, especially those with a strong credit history, opt to get a mortgage from their bank simply because they have an account there.    Private lenders are often a bit more flexible on borrowing requirements because they aren’t backed by a bank or credit union, meaning they don’t have to meet the same federal regulations. They set their criteria. The downside is that you lose certain protections because private lenders don’t have to follow established lending guidelines. But it’s worth exploring private lenders if you’re struggling to qualify for a conventional loan with a traditional bank. How can I get preapproved for a mortgage loan?
Getting preapproved for a mortgage is a simple process, and with some online lenders, it can take as little as 15 minutes. Preapproval is widely recommended as it shows sellers you are serious buyers. Before starting the process, experts recommend you review your credit history and report any errors to the credit bureaus for correction. Your credit history is a major factor in whether a lender preapproves you for a home loan and at what interest rate.  To get preapproved, you’ll need to hand over some financial documents, like pay stubs from the last 30 days, your W-2s and potentially tax returns from the last two years to a lender for review. For a full list of the documents you’ll need, click
here . If preapproved, you’ll receive a preapproval letter indicating your maximum home loan amount, estimated interest rate, loan type and terms.
About the Author
Katherine Watt Former Staff Writer Katherine Watt Former Staff Writer
Katherine Watt is a former CNET Money writer focusing on mortgages, home equity and banking. She previously wrote about personal finance for NextAdvisor. Based in New York, Katherine graduated summa cum laude from Colgate University with a bachelor's degree in English literature.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.