Review: Fairmont Hotel Vancouver in British Columbia, Canada - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I spent a night in Vancouver's 'castle in the city.' My $320 room was average, but the hotel was worth it.
By
Joey Hadden
The Fairmont Hotel Vancouver is a historic establishment that looks like a castle.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
2025-09-24T11:24:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Fairmont Hotel Vancouver is a historic hotel in Canada designed to look like a castle.
The property has been featured in many films and shows, like "Fifty Shades of Grey" and "The X-Files."
I spent one night in a standard room at the Fairmont Hotel Vancouver for $320.
From 2005 to 2008, Disney Channel's "The Suite Life of Zack & Cody" was my favorite TV show on air. So you can imagine my excitement when I found myself standing in front of the Tipton Hotel 20 years later.Except it wasn't the Tipton Hotel — the fictional hotel's exterior is actually the Fairmont Hotel Vancouver, in British Columbia, Canada.
Commonly known as "the Castle in the City," the landmark hotel has a Châteauesque architectural style reminiscent of the French Renaissance — a stark contrast to the surrounding glass skyscrapers and modern cars on the streets below.Dozens of movies and TV shows have shot scenes at the Fairmont Hotel Vancouver, including "Fifty Shades of Grey" and "The X-Files," among others.
In May, I spent a night in a standard room at the famed hotel for $320. While my room was quite ordinary, I thought it was worth the price to sleep in a castle with stunning communal spaces.
The Fairmont Hotel Vancouver is in the Canadian city's downtown area.
The hotel is in Downtown Vancouver.
Google Maps
The Fairmont Hotel Vancouver is on a busy street, just a block from a Microsoft campus and an Apple store.Several restaurants, shops, and public transportation stations are within walking distance of the hotel.
The hotel opened in 1939.
The exterior of the Fairmont Hotel Vancouver.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
The Canadian Pacific Railway and Canadian National Railway opened the Fairmont Hotel Vancouver (then called Hotel Vancouver) in 1939 as part of a greater project to build luxurious lodgings on train routes across the country.Hotel Vancouver became a Fairmont hotel in 2001.It has a rich history, including hosting King George VI and Queen Elizabeth on opening night and transforming into a hospital during World War II.
Inside, the decor was elegant, blending history and modern luxury.
Inside the lobby.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
The Fairmont Hotel Vancouver has gone through several renovations and restorations.In 2017, the design firm B+H restored historic elements and added new luxury details to the hotel.In the lobby, I noticed Victorian furniture and gates acting as wall panels. According to B+H, these gates protected the Queen's and King's suites in 1939.I also spotted signs of modern luxury, such as new marble flooring and bold chandeliers with funky shapes.
There were several luxury retail stores in the lobby.
Luxury boutiques in the hotel.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
Geometric chandeliers continued into the shopping strip, matching the glamorous aesthetic of the window displays for high-end retailers like Gucci, Louis Vuitton, and Dior, among others.
The lobby also housed the hotel's restaurant, Notch8.
Inside Notch8, the hotel's restaurant.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
The lobby restaurant blended modern glam with inspiration from the building's history as a railway hotel. The restaurant's name, Notch8, refers to the maximum speed setting on a train.The design was eclectic. Some chairs rocked a zebra print, while vintage leather cushions were strapped to booths like belts. Gates similar to those in the lobby divided the dining room into rectangular sections that reminded me of train cars.Notch8 serves North American cuisine for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Up a grand staircase, the event spaces looked regal with gold moldings decorating the walls.
A staircase leads to meeting spaces.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
I corrected my posture as I climbed up to the second floor. It was a natural reaction to the tall pillars with intricate gold moldings around me. Above me, I marveled at a chandelier that screamed old-world luxury with dangling beads.Up here — and on the 15th floor — there were boardrooms and ballrooms that made me feel like royalty as I stepped into empty ones.
Meanwhile, the 24-hour fitness center was as modern as it gets.
Inside the hotel's gym.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
When I visited, the gym was spacious and empty.Cardio machines, treadmills, ellipticals, and spin bikes lined the walls. Around the room, I also spotted strength training machines and various free weights.
I thought the most beautiful space in the hotel was the indoor pool.
The hotel's indoor pool.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
Stepping into the pool area instantly calmed me. The long, rectangular pool was empty when I visited. Sunlight flooded into the space through floor-to-ceiling windows and a skylight above.While I didn't get a chance to swim, just being in the room felt serene.
I stayed in a 300-square-foot room with a queen-size bed and a city view.
Inside the reporter's room.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
The room had an Art Deco design style with a muted, neutral color palette. Aside from four small photos framed above the desk, I didn't see much decor.
The bathroom had a walk-in shower, but no tub.
Inside the reporter's bathroom.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
I noticed art deco details in the mirror's design.
Out my room window, I could see the modern skyscrapers on the surrounding blocks.
Views from the reporter's window.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
A peek out the window reminded me of the hotel's unique and historic architecture amid a 21st-century metropolis.The room may have been typical — but the Fairmont Hotel Vancouver was anything but. I'm glad I booked it.
Recommended video
Travel
Lifestyle
Photos
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account