After fireworks caused her dog to panic, a stranger offered them a ride home : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
After fireworks caused her dog to panic, a stranger offered them a ride home Lara Friedman was walking her large rottweiler on July 4 when fireworks went off. Her dog went into panic mode. Then a stranger offered to help, ensuring both got home safely.
Special Series My Unsung Hero
Stories of people whose kindness left a lasting impression
After fireworks caused her dog to panic, a stranger offered them a ride home
September 23, 202512:01 PM ET
Heard on
All Things Considered
By
Autumn Barnes
After fireworks caused her dog to panic, a stranger offered them a ride home
Listen
·
2:48
2:48
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5549135/nx-s1-9465998" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Lara Friedman and her dog, The Dude.
Friedman family photo
hide caption
toggle caption
Friedman family photo
This story is part of the My Unsung Hero series, from the Hidden Brain team. It features stories of people whose kindness left a lasting impression on someone else. In late 2020, Lara Friedman and her partner adopted a 9-week-old Rottweiler puppy. They affectionately named him The Dude. "[It became] immediately clear he [was] sweet, playful, snuggly, protective and a total goofball," Friedman said.
My Unsung Hero
When her car ran out of gas, help came from a homeless encampment
Because they didn't have a backyard, the family developed a routine of walking The Dude four times a day. "If he [had] his way [we would] stop and say hello to everyone on his route, especially kids," Friedman said. "And he takes very seriously his responsibility to sing along with ambulance and fire engine sirens." Friedman and The Dude were out on one of these walks in July. It was their last stroll of the evening, around 9:30 p.m.. Suddenly, fireworks started going off overhead.
Sponsor Message
"They were right on top of us. You could smell them," Friedman recalled. "The Dude flipped out. He went into total panic mode." It had rained earlier that evening and the sidewalks were slippery. Friedman weighs about 135 pounds. The Dude weighs 120 pounds. It quickly became clear that The Dude was likely going to drag her down the street, putting both of them into a dangerous situation.
My Unsung Hero
In the midst of grief, a woman is comforted by a stranger on the subway
"I'm standing [there] ... just frozen and the fireworks keep going off. And I realized there is no way I can get the two of us home safely," Friedman said. Just then, a stranger walked past. When he noticed The Dude's panic, he stopped and tried to comfort the dog. Uncharacteristically, Friedman began to cry. The man, whom Friedman believes introduced himself as Blake, asked her if she was OK. "'I said, 'I can't get him home safely,'" Friedman recalled. "And he said, 'Would it help if I walked you home? I can try to help control him.'" "And I said, 'I feel weird saying this, but yes, that would be helpful.'" Blake went into his house and came back with another man named Bubba. Together, the three of them tried to wrangle The Dude down the sidewalk. But it didn't work.
Sponsor Message
So, Blake suggested he drive Friedman and The Dude home. Overwhelmed and out of options, Friedman gratefully accepted the offer. As Blake drove the car over, Bubba helped Friedman hold The Dude, as fireworks continued to go off above them.
My Unsung Hero
Leaves piled up after her husband's injury. Then a friend showed up with a rake
The Dude was terrified, but as soon as they opened the car's back door, he ran over and hopped in. Blake drove them home. Friedman will never forget the kindness Blake and Bubba showed to her and The Dude that evening. "I don't know how that night would've turned out without these two angels, who came to my rescue and to The Dude's rescue. But I am so grateful and we will absolutely be paying this forward."
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor