Seattle's Iconic Starbucks Reserve Roastery Among Stores Closing - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Exclusive
Starbucks is closing its iconic Capitol Hill Roastery, just minutes from its Seattle headquarters
By
Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert
Starbucks' iconic Reserve Roastery on Capitol Hill in Seattle will be among the locations shuttered by the company in its latest restructuring, Business Insider has learned.
Stephen Ehlers/Getty Images
2025-09-25T13:32:08Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Starbucks announced Thursday it would close 1% of its retail stores and lay off 900 non-retail staff.
Its flagship Reserve Roastery in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Seattle will be among the closures.
The location was among the first unionized Starbucks stores and a prominent backdrop for protests.
Starbucks' iconic Reserve Roastery in Seattle is among the stores the company is closing, Business Insider has learned.
Starbucks on Thursday announced it would close many of its corporate-owned stores across North America, targeting locations where the company said it found it is "unable to create the physical environment our customers and partners expect" or where it doesn't "see a path to financial performance."
A letter was posted on the Reserve Roastery door early Thursday morning, breaking the news that it would close. The store, which had its windows and doors promptly boarded up following the closure, is in the city's Capitol Hill neighborhood, just minutes from the company's headquarters."To our Cap Hill neighbors and friends," it began.
"It is with heavy hearts that we announce the closure of the Seattle Reserve Roastery. This location has been the destination of coffee lovers from down the block and around the world. That you have chosen to share this experience with us is deeply appreciated," it continued.
A sign on the door of Starbucks' Capitol Hill Reserve Roastery confirmed its closure.
Brad Cornwell
The letter, signed by "The Starbucks Coffee Company," thanked the Capitol Hill neighborhood for its support and loyalty over the years, adding that the "meaningful connections" forged at the store "will not be forgotten.""At the heart of it all are our Cap Hill partners, who have gone above and beyond to create the best customer experiences possible," the letter reads, referring to in-store staff, which Starbucks calls partners. "We care deeply about them and are working closely to support them through this transition."
"While this was a difficult decision to make, we remain dedicated to serving you and hope to see you again soon at one of our other Starbucks coffeehouses," the letter concluded.The Seattle Reserve Roastery was the first Starbucks roastery concept to launch in December 2014. It had a luxurious tasting room and an expansive menu, including alcoholic beverages.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
It was also among the first unionized Starbucks stores, with staff members voting to unionize with Starbucks Workers United in April 2022.
Over the years, the Capitol Hill roastery became a prominent backdrop for protests, including a demonstration as recent as Monday, in which staff gathered for a rally to demand a completed labor contract.Union-represented status was not a factor in the decision to close the store, Starbucks confirmed.In a statement provided to Business Insider, a spokesperson for Starbucks Workers United, which represents 12,000 baristas across 45 states and Washington DC, said the union would bargain with the company to ensure affected baristas are assigned to new stores in accordance with their preferences.
"Fixing what's broken at Starbucks isn't possible without centering the people who engage with the company's customers day in and day out," the union statement said. "It has never been more clear why baristas at Starbucks need the backing of a union."A company spokesperson confirmed the Capitol Hill roastery closure when reached for comment by Business Insider, but said Starbucks remains committed to its Reserve Roastery concepts in Chicago, Milan, New York, Shanghai, and Tokyo.Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email at Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert at ktl@businessinsider.com or Signal at byktl.50. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Starbucks
Exclusive
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account