CNET Editors' Choice: Our Experts Pick the Best AI, Smart Home and Future Tech - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
ai atlas
Tech
CNET Editors' Choice: Our Experts Pick the Best AI, Smart Home and Future Tech
We've reviewed AI tools and chatbots, VR headsets, video doorbells, 3D printers and more hands-on. Here are the very best.
CNET staff
See full bio
CNET staff
June 5, 2024
9:00 a.m. PT 14 min read
Welcome to the best of the future, today. In this edition of CNET's Editors' Choice Awards, you'll see our picks for the kinds of devices and services that were inconceivable a few years ago. We're talking about artificial intelligence chatbots and image generators, virtual and augmented reality headsets, and smart devices from speakers to locks to doorbells that can make your home feel like a technology palace. As always, our expert editors have tested and compared everything on this list hands-on to arrive at our top recommendations. Only the best of the best earn the Editors' Choice, and we'll explain exactly why we love this stuff -- and why you will too.  David Katzmaier, Senior Director of Content  Table of Contents
The best AI tools, reviewed by humans
AR, VR and future tech we love
Our favorite smart home and security tech
Methodology
The best AI tools, reviewed by humans As part of our comprehensive AI Atlas, we test chatbots, image generators and more to figure out which ones work best and which ones hallucinate (make stuff up). As always, our testing is based on hands-on experience by expert human editors. With that prompt, here's what we found.
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
Anthropic Claude
AI Chatbot
See at Anthropic
Who is it best for?Anthropic's Claude is a great tool for anyone who wants a conversational and easy-to-use chatbot for answering basic queries or digging deep on more complex topics. It doesn't hedge its answers as much as other AI chatbots and is willing to give more definitive answers. When conversing with it, Claude engages more than other chatbots and is willing to explore different ideas. It doesn't have a direct connection to the internet, however, meaning if you're looking to research more current topics, it's best to look at other AI chatbots. Our favorite thingClaude presents information in clear, easy to understand and human-like language. It doesn't feel as robotic as other AI chatbots. As a broader research tool, it synthesizes different bits of information from a variety of sources and brings up the more salient points.  Why we love itThe free version of Anthropic's Claude felt like the most conversational of all the AI chatbots we've tested so far. It went out of its way to ask for our opinions on topics and engaged in a back-and-forth. Not only that, its answers, generally, felt well thought out. And in our testing it was less prone to hallucinate, or make stuff up. It should be noted, however, that these AI chatbots are being updated constantly so Claude's competitors like ChatGPT and Google's Gemini are trying to up their games too. -- Imad Khan, Senior Writer Read our full review.
See at Anthropic
Editors' choice
Stephen Shankland/CNET
OpenAI Dall-E 3
AI Image Generator
See at OpenAI
Who is it best for?Dall-E 3 is a great tool for both amateur and professional designers who want to create images and illustrations from written descriptions. It encourages you to enter long, story-like prompts, and it handles more complicated instructions well. Dall-E is available only to those with the premium version of ChatGPT for $20 per month.Our favorite thingDall-E 3 creates vivid, attention-grabbing images. They may not always be perfect, but they are consistently engaging. Dall-E is conversational, meaning you can send follow-up messages asking it to adjust certain elements so you can refine and fine-tune your images. You can make your images to be widescreen, portrait and landscape, which is a nice customization tool.Why we love itDall-E consistently outperformed its rivals. It can handle complex and longer prompts so you can get the image you want. It does have a bit of trouble generating photorealistic images and can take longer than other programs, but the images are worth the wait. (The potato king that Stephen Shankland generated for his review is particularly fun.) Despite the cost, Dall-E 3 is the best AI image generator we've tested so far.-- Katelyn Chedraoui, Associate Writer Read our full review.
See at OpenAI
Editors' choice
Photo Illustration by Rafael Henrique/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images
Otter AI
AI Transcription Tool
$100 at Otter AI
Who is it best for?Otter is great for people who are regularly in meetings, conducting interviews or need a handy recording device. Depending on how many hours of recording time you need, you may want to invest in a paid plan.Our favorite thingOtter AI Chat is my favorite Otter feature and a major time-saver. You can message the genAI chatbot to get the information you need without needing to read the whole transcript. Otter AI Chat doesn't regurgitate the jargon in your transcript; rather it breaks the information down into easily understandable language.Why we love itOtter AI is a fantastic meeting assistant. Whether you're on a free personal plan or your company's enterprise plan, Otter has helpful features that will make it easier to keep track of your team's priorities and action items. It's been my go-to transcription service for years, and it's only getting better.-- Katelyn Chedraoui, Associate Writer Read our full review.
$100 at Otter AI
AR, VR and future tech we love The future of today is about more than just AI. It's augmented and virtual reality headsets and the best apps and games that use them. It's also stuff like 3D printers and battery-powered projectors that manifest your virtual creations and put huge streaming TV images anywhere.
Editors' choice
CNET
Meta Quest 3
VR/AR headset
$429 at Amazon
$500 at Walmart
$430 at Best Buy
Who is it best for?If you've ever wanted to play VR games without any PC at all, or want to explore the future of mixed reality, Meta's $500 headset offers a great display, improved color cameras, and hundreds of apps to explore at a fraction of the price of Apple's Vision Pro. It also works as an excellent PC VR headset too. Our favorite thingMixed reality may seem like a gimmick now, but the Quest 3 can blend virtual experiences on top of the real world in ways that will likely expand in the next few years. The headset's display resolution looks great too, and optimized Quest games are starting to show off console-level graphics.Why we love itFitness, games, and even work apps are just some of the many things the Quest 3 can be good for. While VR isn't necessary for most people, and we still think the Quest 2 is a great all-around choice for many, this is the best hardware for its price you can find right now. It's our favorite VR headset right now for that reason: call it the Vision Pro Lite, for a fraction of Apple's $3,500 price.-- Scott Stein, Senior Editor Read our full review.
$429 at Amazon
$500 at Walmart
$430 at Best Buy
Editors' choice
Meta/CNET
Meta Quest 2
VR headset
$240 at Amazon
Who is it best for?At $200, the Quest 2 is an absurdly good deal for a self-contained VR headset, making it a great fit for anyone who wants to try games or fitness apps without spending a ton on hardware. Sure, it's four years old, but it's still a favorite pick for older kids and teens. Our favorite thingThe affordable price is what makes the Quest 2 great right now. The Quest 3 has better lenses, graphics, display resolution and passthrough cameras, but also costs $300 more. If you're OK with that, get a Quest 3. But the $200 Quest 2 price makes it an amazing budget pick.Why we love itIt's hard to think of any great products that cost $200 anymore. While the Quest 2 might get replaced in Meta's lineup later this year, this headset can still run hundreds of games and experiences well, at a cost that's less than a Nintendo Switch.-- Scott Stein, Senior Editor Read our full review.
$240 at Amazon
Editors' choice
Mighty Cononut
Walkabout Mini Golf
VR game
$15 at Meta
Who is it best for?If you've ever wanted to play a great social VR game with friends at a comfortable, casual pace, Walkabout offers up lush and surreal mini golf courses that are perfect to explore with others. It's great for mini golf lovers or those who want fun Disney-like VR experiences at home.Our favorite thingWalkabout's whimsical course designs often feel like theme park attractions. The Meow Wolf course is a perfect example of this, introducing mind-bending holes and hypnotic art into a whole world you can wander through that just happens to also be a mini golf course. The extra hidden item hunts in each course are great too.Why we love itNot only is Walkabout a great mini golf simulator for home, it's constantly full of new courses that explore magical locations. You can play with friends and chat and hang out in these worlds, making it my favorite casual place to play in VR with friends.-- Scott Stein, Senior Editor Read our full review.
$15 at Meta
Editors' choice
Within
Supernatural
VR fitness app
See at Meta
Who is it best for?Supernatural is perfect for anyone who wants to get more physically fit using a VR headset or any VR headset owner who's been trying to motivate to get more exercise. The subscription service feels like a VR game mixed with Peloton-style virtual training.Our favorite thingThe beautiful 3D locations and personality-filled holographic VR trainers (real people, who appear as 3D video during workouts) do a great job of immersing us into workouts and feeling emotionally connected. The continuously updated music sets, ranging from Florence and the Machine to Disney, are excellent too.Why we love itI've been using Supernatural for over half a year, and it's motivated me to be physically active in ways I've never been before. I've felt a difference, and the leaderboards, social connection with friends and addictive gameplay work magic on me. It's a subscription that costs $10 per month or $100 per year, but that's well worth it.-- Scott Stein, Senior Editor Read our full review.
See at Meta
Editors' choice
James Bricknell / CNET
Bambu Lab A1
3D printer
$339 at Bambu Lab
Who is it best for?Those just starting out in 3D printing and people who want to try color 3D printing for the first time. It's also a good choice for those who want to sell their prints.Our favorite thingFrom getting the package at my door to starting the first 3D print, the entire setup process took less than 10 minutes. There was no fuss, just quality printing immediately.Why we love itThe Bambu Lab A1 is a joy to use. Unlike some other 3D printers we rate highly, it isn't just a tool that does a job, it's a tool that makes that job more fun. The ease at which you can set it up and use it makes it feel more like a kitchen appliance than an engineering machine. I know, "kitchen appliance" and "fun" don't normally go hand in hand, but the A1 manages it.Color 3D printing has always been an area that took considerable time, money and effort to get right. Bambu Lab has managed to make it (almost) seamless at a price that would have been impossible just five years ago. For $559, the 3D printer and the AMS that controls the color printing is a bargain.It's not a perfect machine. The color system can be tricky to get right, and the waste that color 3D printing creates can be troublesome, but the quality experience far outweighs the negatives. The A1 is a new generation of 3D printers that "just work" in the way you expect modern products to.-- James Bricknell, Senior Editor Read our full review.
$339 at Bambu Lab
Editors' choice
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Anker Nebula Mars 3 Air
Portable battery-powered projector
$470 at Amazon
Who is it best for?Anyone looking for a small battery-powered projector to create a big image just about anywhere.Our favorite thingUnlike many portable projectors, the Mars 3 Air uses the full version of Google TV for its streaming and overall interface. This means it has all the services you'd expect, like Netflix, Disney Plus, Max and so on. More importantly, and again unlike many portables, it has the real, full versions of these apps, so they work as you'd expect. Why we love itMost portable projectors are compromised in a lot of ways, but the Mars 3 Air manages to do just about everything right. It creates a reasonably bright, colorful, contrasty image. The streaming interface works just like what's found in more expensive projectors and many TVs. It sounds better than you'd expect, too, being able to double as a decent Bluetooth speaker. If you want to connect a game console, there's an HDMI input on the back. The battery is rated for 2.5 hours, though if you run it at max brightness it's a lot less. If you're not on the go, you can plug it in and use it like a regular projector. While a traditional home projector will outperform the Mars 3 Air in every way, they don't have its battery and ultra-portableness. We wish the price was a little lower, but given how much better it is than the competition, it's worth the premium.-- Geoffrey Morrison, Contributor Read our full review.
$470 at Amazon
Our favorite smart home and security tech Smart tech has found its way into every nook and cranny of the home, but not all of it is worth the investment. Home security cams with remarkable object recognition, speakers with brilliant sound that connect effortlessly and truly smart smart assistants comprise the best smart home tech in 2024.
Editors' choice
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Sofabaton U2 universal remote
Universal remote
$48 at Amazon
Who is it best for?If your TV setup has more than a TV and streaming device then you could really benefit from a universal remote like the U2. The days of juggling three-plus remotes are over.Our favorite thingThe remote connects to the iOS and Android app over Bluetooth, so there are no complicated setup routines or cables required. The app uses a straightforward product search, and we've found that most home theater was covered. You can also program in your devices if you need to, and programming is a lot easier than cheaper remotes that rely on codes.Why we love itUniversal remotes, like the excellent Sofabaton U2, let you replace all of your remotes with one. The Sofabaton is easy to use and set up and is also ultra-affordable. --Ty Pendlebury, Editor Read our full review.
$48 at Amazon
Editors' choice
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Amazon Echo Dot
Smart Speaker
$38 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
$50 at B&H Photo-Video
Who is it best for?For some people, it’s hard to imagine a world without smart assistants. If you’re looking for an easier way to automate tedious tasks or for simply checking the weather, the Echo Dot offers an exceptional value.Our favorite thingThe Amazon Echo Dot shows off a lot of utility from playing music, to answering questions and automating smart home features. The fact that it fits in the palm of your hand means it will easily sit wherever you want it. And the price is affordable enough for just about any budget.Why we love itFor its size, the Dot is a good-sounding speaker with sensitive microphones. It’s easy to set up and, since Alexa is the most popular virtual assistant, it has support from thousands of different brands. -- Ty Pendlebury, Editor Read our full review.
$38 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
$50 at B&H Photo-Video
Editors' choice
Sonos Era 100
Smart Speaker
$199 at Amazon
$200 at Best Buy
$199 at B&H Photo-Video
Who is it best for?Sonos has been around a long time, and if you're interested in music in every room it's likely you already have at least one of its products. The Snos Era 100 improves on the previous Sonos One with better sound, including stereo, and enhanced usability.Our favorite thingThe Sonos system has the widest streaming compatibility of any product on the market, and the 100 capitalizes on this by also sounding better than any other smart speaker. The 100 is relatively affordable and able to fit in spaces large tabletop speakers cannot.Why we love itThe Sonos Era 100 is great because it sounds huge for the money, and it lets you play music and ask questions using the Alexa voice assistant.-- Ty Pendlebury, Editor Read our full review.
$199 at Amazon
$200 at Best Buy
$199 at B&H Photo-Video
Editors' choice
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
WiiM Pro
Whole-Home Music Streamer
$149 at Amazon
Who is it best for?If you have an older hi-fi or large desktop speaker which you want to stream music to, the WiiM Pro offers the best streaming and connectivity of any device on the market.Our favorite thingA lot of us have existing music systems and speakers that sound perfectly good, yet aren't equipped with Bluetooth or some other way to play back streaming music. The WiiM Pro connects to those devices' analog or digital inputs and makes streaming simple. It boasts an easy-to-use app so you can control everything with your phone and compatibility with every major streaming platform including Spotify, Apple AirPlay and Chromecast built-in.Why we love itThe WiiM Pro is compact, user-friendly and costs less than a record player. It's a great way to  play anything you want on your favorite stereo.-- Ty Pendlebury, Editor Read our full review.
$149 at Amazon
Editors' choice
Google
Google Nest Doorbell
Video Doorbell
$155 at Amazon
$137 at Walmart
Who is it best for?Everyone who has a front door, especially homeowners or renters first starting out with home security.Our favorite thingAI object recognition that's more accurate than any other doorbell we've tested -- and it's free where many brands charge extra.Why we love itNest's object recognition has been around since before Google's big AI push, but the company's work at training AI models is very evident in this super-accurate doorbell. No other doorbell I've tested can so deftly alert users when a person is carrying a package and when they leave it behind (or when the package disappears).The doorbell's recognition features also let it ignore passing cars and other visual noise while focusing on what matters via Activity Zones and other settings. If you pay a subscription for Nest Aware, you also get the ability to add familiar face profiles so the doorbell can recognize friends and family. That's a more controversial feature, but it's undeniable Nest is on the cutting edge of smart motion detection.Nest is also one of the only brands offering free cloud video storage. You get three hours to decide what to do with footage, including downloading or sharing it. That bonus usually requires a subscription fee in other devices. -- Tyler Lacoma, Home Security Editor Read our full review.
$155 at Amazon
$137 at Walmart
Editors' choice
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Aqara U100 Smart Lock
Smart Lock
$190 at Amazon
$190 at Best Buy
Who is it best for?Those looking for a full deadbolt replacement replete with every unlocking option you could want.Our favorite thingThe sleek, highly responsive keypad looks and feels great to use, whether you're swiping your Apple Watch or using your thumbprint.Why we love itApple fans feast with the Aqara U100, one of the few home security devices that works with Apple Home/HomeKit right out of the box. The extra-sturdy deadbolt replacement simply feels good, with a powerful and responsive keypad that also serves as a fingerprint reader and Bluetooth sensor for digital keys. This is exactly what people think of when they dream about a smart lock upgrade.The Aqara app allows you to play with all kinds of rules and restrictions on when the door auto-locks or opens. You can set up home access exactly how you want it, from temporary guest passes and geofencing to reviewing the day's door activities.What about non-Apple users? Platform compatibility is a bit limited until you add an Aqara Zigbee hub, which enables support for Alexa and Google Assistant, as well as Wi-Fi connections for away-from-home control. I advise bundling the two together for the complete lock setup.-- Tyler Lacoma, Home Security Editor Read our full review.
$190 at Amazon
$190 at Best Buy
Editors' choice
Google
Google Nest Indoor/Outdoor Cam
Security Camera
$164 at Walmart
$180 at Best Buy
$180 at Crutchfield
Who is it best for?People looking for an even-smarter security cam they can mount anywhere and pop off immediately for recharging.Our favorite thingGoogle's object recognition is back in this snappy Nest cam, but the best feature is the free 3 hours of cloud video storage so you have time to download footage.Why we love itThis cam comes with all the Nest Doorbell's detection smarts plus a design that lets you mount it nearly anywhere. The magnetic base is a particularly great fit for this battery cam, a sturdy connection that's easy to angle but can pop off at a moment's notice for recharging.The versatility of the Nest Cam continues to impress with both Google Assistant and Alexa/Echo support thanks to a round of compatibility updates a few years ago. Plus, like the Nest Doorbell, 3 hours of free video storage are included every time the Nest Cam picks up an important event through object recognition and starts recording. Features like these make this a great starter model for a security camera, and I'm just waiting to see how Nest will develop in the future.-- Tyler Lacoma, Home Security Editor Read our full review.
$164 at Walmart
$180 at Best Buy
$180 at Crutchfield
Methodology, or how we made this list The CNET Editors' Choice badge represents the strongest recommendation of a product or service evaluated by CNET experts. The award distinguishes the products and services that have made a lasting impression on CNET's editorial team. To earn an Editors' Choice distinction, a product or service must be a top pick in its category, score a minimum benchmark when rated, or be selected by a CNET expert based on hands-on testing of the product and its competition. Awarded by our experienced editors, enhanced by lab testing in dedicated facilities, and more selective than a Best List inclusion or a positive review, readers can know that Editors' Choice Award recipients are the best of the best.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.