Microsoft says recent updates cause DRM video playback issues
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft says recent updates cause DRM video playback issues
Microsoft says recent updates cause DRM video playback issues
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 22, 2025
09:55 AM
0
Microsoft has confirmed a known issue that prevents some apps from playing Digital Rights Management (DRM) protected video content or displaying and recording live TV.
As the company confirmed on Friday, the bug is triggering freezes, black screens, and other issues after installing the August preview update or later on Windows 11 24H2 systems.
"Some Digital TV and BluRay/DVD applications might experience problems playing protected content after installing the August 29, 2025 Windows non-security preview update (KB5064081), or later updates," Microsoft said.
"Applications using Enhanced Video Renderer with HDCP enforcement or Digital Rights Management (DRM) for digital audio might experience copyright protection errors, frequent playback interruptions, freezing or black screens."
The company is now working on a fix that will be provided for affected customers with future Windows updates.
Since the start of the month, Microsoft has fixed other known issues caused by the August 2025 Windows updates, including one that was causing app installation problems for non-admin users on all Windows versions due to unexpected User Account Control (UAC) prompts.
Earlier, it also addressed severe lag and stuttering issues with NDI streaming software that were affecting Windows 10 and Windows 11 systems after deploying last month's security updates.
After releasing the August cumulative updates, Microsoft also fixed a known issue that caused security updates delivered via Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) to fail with 0x80240069 errors.
One week later, the company released emergency Windows updates to address a bug that had broken Windows reset and recovery operations on Windows 10 and Windows 10 Enterprise devices.
Two years ago, Redmond also resolved a known issue that triggered video recording and playing failures in some apps on Windows 10 and Windows 11 systems. The same bug caused some cameras and webcams to fail if they were using the WVC1 (Windows Media Video 9 Advanced Profile) codec by default.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft lifts Windows 11 update block after face detection fixMicrosoft fixes bug behind Windows certificate enrollment errorsMicrosoft asks customers for feedback on reported SSD failuresMicrosoft fixes Windows 11 24H2 updates failing with 0x80240069 errorWindows 11 24H2 updates failing again with 0x80240069 errors
Digital rights management
DRM
KB5064081
Known Issue
Microsoft
TV
Windows 11
Windows 11 24H2
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT