Tesla Settles Another Lawsuit Over a Deadly Autopilot Crash - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Transportation
Tesla dodges trial and settles lawsuit over a deadly Autopilot crash
By
Natalie Musumeci
Tesla has settled another lawsuit.
Reuters
2025-09-17T16:53:05Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Tesla has settled a lawsuit over a 2019 crash involving Autopilot, avoiding a jury trial.
The family of a 15-year-old boy who was killed in a California highway wreck had sued Tesla.
The settlement follows a more than $242 million verdict against Tesla in a similar Florida case.
Tesla has avoided another jury trial over a deadly crash involving the electric carmaker's Autopilot driver-assist system.
Elon Musk's company reached a deal this week to settle a lawsuit with the family of a 15-year-old boy who was killed in a 2019 California highway collision after a Tesla Model 3 slammed into the teen's father's pickup truck.Notice of settlement documents were filed in Alameda County Superior Court on Monday, just four weeks before the case was scheduled to go to trial. The documents say that the settlement is "conditional."
Attorneys for the family who sued Tesla would not provide details of the settlement to Business Insider, saying it is confidential. Representatives for Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The settlement comes after a Florida federal jury last month found Tesla partly to blame for a 2019 Autopilot-related crash that left a 22-year-old woman dead and her boyfriend seriously injured.Tesla was dealt a major blow in that case. The jury awarded the plaintiffs $329 million in total damages, leaving the car company on the hook for $242.5 million.
Brett Schreiber, an attorney who helped secure that verdict, is also part of the plaintiff's legal team in the California case.Attorneys for Tesla have slammed the Florida verdict, arguing in court papers that the massive judgment "flies in the face" of the law and should be tossed.The company maintained in the court papers that the "reckless" driver of the Tesla 2019 Model S — and not its Autopilot software — was entirely responsible for the Key Largo crash.
Autopilot allows Tesla vehicles to steer themselves, switch lanes, brake, and accelerate independently. Tesla says on its website that Autopilot mode is "intended for use with a fully attentive driver, who has their hands on the wheel and is prepared to take over at any moment."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The lawsuit filed in the now-settled California case said Benjamin Maldonado was traveling with his teen son, Jovani, in a Ford pickup truck on an Alameda County interstate in August 2019 when a Tesla, with Autopilot engaged, rear-ended the truck, fatally tossing the boy from the vehicle.The driver of the Tesla, who also had been named as a defendant in the lawsuit, was "passively sitting" in the vehicle with Autopilot mode on and did not have his hands on the steering wheel for at least 14 seconds prior to the collision, the complaint alleged.
The lawsuit accused Tesla of negligence, alleging that its Autopilot technology had design defects.Tesla has argued in court documents that the driver of the vehicle was responsible for its safe operation.The car company has faced multiple lawsuits over its Autopilot driver-assist software and has come under increased scrutiny from regulators regarding the technology in recent years.
Tesla won two lawsuits in 2023 involving crashes where Autopilot was in use and has settled several others.Last year, Tesla settled a wrongful-death lawsuit brought by the family of Apple engineer Walter Huang, who was killed in a 2018 fiery wreck when his Tesla Model X SUV smashed into a concrete barrier on a California highway as the vehicle was in Autopilot mode.
Recommended video
Tesla
Lawsuits
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account