Best Streaming Services for Kids in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
Best Streaming Services for Kids in 2025
Find out where to stream family-friendly shows and movies like Cocomelon, Bluey and Teen Titans Go.
Our Experts
Written by
Kourtnee Jackson
Article updated on October 17, 2024 at 4:15 AM PDT
Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
Credentials Though Kourtnee hasn't won any journalism awards yet, she's been a Netflix streaming subscriber since 2012 and knows the magic of its hidden codes.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Cost
Some of these services are free to access, while others require a paid subscription. And if you don't mind your child seeing ads while streaming, you can choose a free platform or low-cost plan to save money each month. Not every streamer shows commercials on kids' content, but prepare to pay more for a service like Paramount Plus or Disney Plus to stream without ads.
Simultaneous streams
For any streaming service, you'll want to know how many screens you can watch at a time. For example, Netflix's ad-based plan allows two simultaneous streams, but you have to upgrade to the premium version if your family needs four screens. Look for platform offerings that let your household stream on multiple devices at once if that's what you need.
Parental controls
Streaming services that house mature content -- such as Max and Netflix -- provide ways for parents to restrict what programming kids can watch. Others offer children's-only content with customizable settings that allow you to block certain titles. Check for parental controls that aren't easily bypassed, like PINs or curated kids' profiles.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
What's the best kids streaming service overall?Netflix and Disney Plus may be the winners in your household when it comes to kids' choice. The content catalogs on these platforms feature a large variety of family-friendly programming suitable for different ages, with safety tools provided to help you monitor the content your kiddo is watching. Deciding which of the best streaming services for kids should get the top spot was a challenging feat. They must balance educational and fun programming perfectly while giving parents practical tools to ensure the content is age-appropriate. Disney Plus has ticked all these necessary boxes, so we've chosen it as the best streaming platform for kids, but it's not the only one with a lot to offer. Our Picks
Best varied, kid-friendly library
Disney Plus
Jump to details
$10 at Disney Plus
Jump to details
Best for franchises like SpongeBob, iCarly, Paw Patrol, Rugrats
Paramount Plus
Jump to details
$8 at Paramount Plus
Jump to details
Best range of ad-free content and curated kids profiles Netflix
Jump to details
$7 at Netflix
Jump to details
Best for Cartoon Network, feature films and DC titles Max
Jump to details
$10 at Max
Jump to details
Best free app for educational shows PBS Kids
Jump to details
See at PBS Kids
Jump to details
Best free platform with mainstream characters HappyKids
Jump to details
See at HappyKids
Jump to details
Best free streaming for kids 12 and under Kidoodle TV
Jump to details
See at KidoodleTV
Jump to details
Show 2 more
Table of Contents
Best Streaming Services for Kids in 2025
What's the best kids streaming service overall?
Best Streaming Service for Kids in 2025
Best varied, kid-friendly library
Best for franchises like SpongeBob, iCarly, Paw Patrol, Rugrats
Best range of ad-free content and curated kids profiles
Best for Cartoon Network, feature films and DC titles
Best free app for educational shows
Best free platform with mainstream characters
Best free streaming for kids 12 and under
Factors to consider
How we test kids streaming services
Other streaming services we tested
Kids streaming services FAQ
We put each of these streaming services to the test, based on content libraries, ad load times, subscription cost and safety features like parental controls. The streaming services on this list are chock-full of great films and TV shows, with some operating as entertainment hubs for your kid's favorite characters. If you're looking for the streaming platform that may be the best fit for your family, read on for our expert guidance. Best Streaming Service for Kids in 2025
Disney
Photo Gallery 1/1
Disney
Best varied, kid-friendly library
Disney Plus
Pros
Wide catalog of popular TV and movies from Disney, Marvel, Star Wars, Pixar and National Geographic;
Ability to choose content ratings;
Simple interface with some 4K titles available;
Low price with ads
Cons
Little customization of kids' profiles;
Long wait times for new, original TV series
Disney Plus offers a wide variety of family-friendly content, including shows and movies from Disney, Marvel, Star Wars, Pixar, National Geographic, Disney Junior and Disney Channel. Everything is easily accessible through the streamer’s navigation menu, which can be broken down by category, title, character or genre.Keep toddlers occupied with animated and live-action Disney classics. Tweens and teens can enjoy The Proud Family, Gravity Falls, Turning Red, Marvel's Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur and the Mouse House’s lineup of blockbusters.Parents can add a four-digit PIN to set rating limits on profiles. Creating a kid's profile automatically curates appropriate content for all ages. The Kid-Proof exit feature adds an extra layer of security, preventing profile switching. Disney Plus' $10 ad-supported tier features commercials on many titles. However, there are several ways to enjoy ad-free streaming.  ... Show more
Get it now
$10 at Disney Plus
Specs & Configurations
Price
Starts at $10Simultaneous streams
Up to 4Profiles per account
Up to 7
Add to compare
Paramount Pictures
Photo Gallery 1/1
Paramount Pictures
Best for franchises like SpongeBob, iCarly, Paw Patrol, Rugrats
Paramount Plus
Pros
Strong stable of kids' content from Nickelodeon;
Streams some major movies soon after theater release;
Broad catalog of familiar shows and movies;
Lower price
Cons
Not many must-see originals;
Paramount Plus has a nice collection of iconic characters and series. It's basically Nickelodeon central. SpongeBob, iCarly, Rugrats, Paw Patrol, Peppa Pig and other Nick superstars sit beside Paramount Plus originals Big Nate and Star Trek: Prodigy.The menus feature a kids section for the shows or movies tabs, but you can also search for Noggin, Nick Jr., or other branded content. A selection of curated live channels stream 24/7 kids content, including dedicated hubs for SpongeBob, Paw Patrol and Kids and Family Fun."Kids Mode" allows parents to create kids' profiles with character-based avatars and to specify a profile's age range. The content adjusts ratings based on your selection. Subscriptions cost $8 for the ad-supported Essential version and $13 for ad-free Premium.  ... Show more
Get it now
$8 at Paramount Plus
Specs & Configurations
Price
Starts at $8Simultaneous streams
Up to 3Profiles per account
Up to 6
Add to compare
Netflix
Photo Gallery 1/1
Netflix
Best range of ad-free content and curated kids profiles
Netflix
Pros
Strong recommendation engine;
Easy to use across different devices;
Extensive list of movies and shows for kids
Cons
Cost for premium plans is on the higher end;
Can't watch shows as they air on other networks;
Missing content on ad-based plan
Netflix caters to every age and stage in your child's life and offers a variety of entertaining and educational titles, including popular series like CoComelon and Octonauts, originals like The Sea Beast and My Dad the Bounty Hunter and DreamWorks titles such as Camp Cretaceous.You can set up parent controls with age restrictions on each profile. Netflix Kids Experience offers pre-selected, age-appropriate content with a distinct logo. If you choose titles outside the Kids Experience ratings, the logo is removed and the profile type is changed automatically. To cap it off, the platform showcases a Top 10 row for kids' programming and sends out biweekly emails to parents with recommendations and other child-centric tools. Netflix's Mystery Box feature surprises kids with a new title to check out. Go ad-free for $15.50 per month or try the ad-based plan at $7 a month.   ... Show more
Get it now
$7 at Netflix
Specs & Configurations
Price
Starts at $7Simultaneous streams
2 for Standard; 4 for PremiumProfiles per account
Up to 5
Add to compare
WarnerMedia/Max
Photo Gallery 1/1
WarnerMedia/Max
Best for Cartoon Network, feature films and DC titles
Max
Pros
Huge library that covers every era and viewers of all ages;
Kids' content lineup and parental control features;
User-friendly interface
Cons
High price, even with ads
Don't sleep on Max. It offers Cartoon Network favorites like We Bare Bears and  Adventure Time, as well as Sesame Street, Looney Tunes and animated DC superheroes, including OG Teen Titans. You can easily find content by selecting the Kids & Family category or clicking on a character's icon – like Elmo, Scooby Doo and Batman. Max also organizes content by age groups (2-5, 6-9, 10-12 and 13 and up) and has popular shows like Blippi and Vlad & Niki for its preschool Cartoonito viewers. Additionally, there are plenty of titles available for teens who need a break from animation.You can create a separate kid profile on Max for your children to access age-appropriate content. Adults need to log a four-digit PIN and provide birthdate information. Max offers three subscription options: $10 a month with ads, $16 for ad-free, or $20 for ad-free with 4K titles.  ... Show more
Get it now
$10 at Max
Specs & Configurations
Price
Starts at $10Simultaneous streams
2 for with ads; 2 for ad-free; 4 for Ultimate ad-freeProfiles per account
Up to 5
Add to compare
PBS
Photo Gallery 1/1
PBS
Best free app for educational shows
PBS Kids
Pros
Free access;
Library full of age-appropriate content, popular characters;
No ads;
Easy to use across devices
Cons
Some full episodes not available
PBS Kids has been the go-to for childhood favorites like Sesame Street for decades. Characters like Elmo, Arthur (the longest-running animated kids’ show in history), Daniel the Tiger and Curious George entertain and teach. Despite ownership by Warner Bros. Discovery and HBO, new Sesame Street episodes are still available on PBS Kids. The service is free for Prime Video subscribers and available on The Roku Channel. Parents can download the PBS Kids video app for free on a mobile device or TV. That means your children can stream shows like Elmo or Wild Kratts, whether on the couch or on the go.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at PBS Kids
Specs & Configurations
Price
FreeSimultaneous streams
There is no limitProfiles per account
1
Add to compare
Happy Kids
Photo Gallery 1/1
Happy Kids
Best free platform with mainstream characters
HappyKids
Pros
All titles are for kids;
Good parental controls;
Easy for kids to use
Cons
Some episodes missing
HappyKids is a streaming app offering 110,000 titles for children from babies to tweens. It includes live channels, movies, popular kid vloggers and TV shows like Blippi, Cocomelon, Total Drama Island, Winx Club and The Wiggles.When you open the app, you'll have 12 categories to choose from. Pick an age group, or click on Lego Corner, movies and TV, gaming videos, learning or Spanish content. Some titles are from YouTube, but there are also new episodes, films and shorts available. Parental controls allow you to block specific titles or disable access to certain genres or topics.HappyKids is ad-based, so your child may encounter commercials for everything from Star Wars Legos to Juicy Drop. The streamer is free and available on most devices, including Roku, Fire TV, Apple TV and mobile devices.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at HappyKids
Specs & Configurations
Price
FreeSimultaneous streams
No limitProfiles per account
1
Add to compare
A Parent Media Co. Inc.
Photo Gallery 1/1
A Parent Media Co. Inc.
Best free streaming for kids 12 and under
Kidoodle TV
Pros
Free content just for kids of any age;
No subscription needed unless you want to upgrade;
Catalog is vetted
Cons
Contains ads;
No downloads
Kidoodle TV, similar to PBS Kids, provides free entertainment for kids up to age 12. It includes educational and recreational content featuring licensed shows and movies like Lego, My Little Pony, SpongeBob and Pokemon. The app also offers nature and animal videos from the Dodo, game-themed content with Mario, Minecraft and Roblox, as well as crafting tutorials. Parents can find YouTube favorites like Ryan's World and choose from a range of educational videos. Kidoodle TV also offers original content – like StoryRaps from Wes Tank – and has language-learning videos in French, German, Spanish, Russian and Mandarin from Little Pim.You can watch Kidoodle for free as a guest, but signing up allows you to create accounts for kids and parents. The app offers age-appropriate content vetted by Kidoodle parents and staff. The Freemium account includes family-friendly ads, or you can upgrade to the Premium version for $5 per month to skip commercials. Parental controls let you set screen time limits, choose titles and monitor viewing habits, along with an automatic shut-off option. Kidoodle is available on Roku, FireTV, smart TVs and other devices.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at KidoodleTV
Specs & Configurations
Price
FreeSimultaneous streams
UnlimitedProfiles per account
Up to 5
Add to compareFactors to consider
Selection of kid-friendly programming: Some streamers offer a wide variety of family-friendly titles for all ages, from preschool to teens. Others have limited catalogs or cater more to a younger demographic.Parental controls: Some services don't offer the ability to change age ratings or block certain content for kids. Be sure you can adjust parental controls, control access to mature content or curate each child's profile based on age.Simultaneous streams: Services may charge extra for additional streams. Ensure household coverage and consider account-sharing costs.Finding shows and movies: Is the interface user-friendly? It should be fairly easy to search for things to watch using menus and other features.  How we test kids streaming services
It's likely you've heard of most of the platforms on this list, but it's by no means comprehensive. There are plenty of other ways to stream and hundreds of other choices out there. As we evaluated these streaming options, we kept certain things in mind for kids.We first considered how much, what type and the quality of content available on each service for every age group. We tested parental control settings and kid profiles. In addition to catalog size and maturity settings, we looked at design (i.e.: ease of use across different TV and mobile platforms for kids), ads, features (like mobile downloads, recommendations, watch lists and number of streams) and value (price compared to these other factors). Click through to the full reviews for more details. Other streaming services we tested
Prime Video: This service is easily accessible for Prime members with a catalog that combines Freevee, Amazon originals and some licensed content, such as the uber-popular Peppa Pig. Though Prime Video has a decent selection of movies and TV shows, it gleans much of its kids' programming from Nickelodeon, PBS Kids and other Viacom properties.Hulu: Like Prime Video, Hulu offers originals (such as Animaniacs) and titles for every age. Much of it comes from other networks. Compared with its rivals, Hulu's price and content lineup is less appealing for a spot on this best list. But our perspective may change when Hulu and Disney Plus begin offering a single app option that will bring titles from both streaming services into one platform.
Kids streaming services FAQ
What about live TV streaming services?
If you prefer a streaming experience that's similar to linear TV, you may want to consider a live TV streaming service such as YouTube TV, Hulu with Live TV or Sling. They cost more than on-demand services, and each offers a roster of family-friendly channels and a set of parental controls, but it depends on the service. You may find a suite of Disney Channel offerings, Cartoon Network, PBS, Animal Planet or other live channels that pique your kids' interest, but you may find it's cheaper to get Disney Plus or Max. Check out our channel guide for live streaming services to see which platforms have what you want.
Show more
What about Amazon Kids Plus?
Amazon Kids Plus is a great app that includes books, videos and games for children. However, its streaming TV lineup is small, with a few originals in addition to licensed titles from PBS, Hasbro and other companies. Kids will be happy to watch Strawberry Shortcake, Pokemon and Lego Marvel, but parents must pay $5 per month for the app. It's a convenient choice if you're already a Prime member or own a Fire tablet, and parents are able to share purchased Prime Video titles (like Spider Man: No Way Home) with their child's Amazon Kids account. Parental controls allow you to set time restrictions and receive notifications if your child requests to buy something.That said, when compared to other paid streaming services on this list, we felt they offer more variety than Amazon Kids Plus when it comes to TV shows and movies.
Show more
What if you don't want your kids watching ads while streaming?
We know that screen time is not the only area of concern, because advertising affects kids, too. Disney Plus has an ad-supported plan that includes commercials in its kid-friendly content. But Netflix's ad-based plan keeps ads out of children's titles. Both services -- in addition to Max, Kidoodle and Paramount Plus -- offer more expensive plans if you want to watch all content without commercials. The PBS Kids app is ad-free.
Show more
About the Author
Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor
Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
Read full bio
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.