How WWE's Chelsea Green's Punched Her Way to Success | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Leadership
'I'm Play-Fighting With My Best Friends': How WWE Superstar Chelsea Green Keeps It Light While Delivering Heavy Blows
Chelsea Green shared her career journey — bruises and all — on the new episode of "How Success Happens."
By
Dan Bova
Sep 17, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Chelsea Green is the first WWE Women's United States Champion.
She once studied to work in kinesiology, but says it wasn't "calling to her."
Chelsea is a featured star on Netflix’s “WWE: Unreal” documentary series.
Some people overcome career obstacles. Other people punch obstacles in the face.Such is the case for WWE superstar Chelsea Green, who joined the How Success Happens podcast and shared her "follow your instincts" approach to making career decisions. Chelsea was studying kinesiology in college and aiming to become a physical therapist when she realized it wasn't her "calling." She thought about becoming a personal trainer, but after seeing a wrestling match—by chance—on TV, the plan changed. The drama, the athleticism, and the choreographed violence she saw on the screen immediately spoke to her: "Something triggered in my mind that is what I need to be doing," she says.She enrolled in a wrestling school that happened to be just down the road, putting her on a path to wrestling stardom and being crowned the first Women's United States Champion. "Never be afraid to try new things," Chelsea advises, "and also don't be afraid to say, 'This isn't for me, I'm going to try something else.'"
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀CHELSEA GREEN (@chelseaagreen)Listen to Chelsea's insights on ambition, resilience (i.e., finishing a match despite having freshly broken bones), and carving out her own version of success here or watch the conversation above. And check out her hard-earned success tips below. And grab a bag of ice — some of this advice hits hard.
Three Things Chelsea Green Suggests Ditching ASAPAsking "What's Next?"Chelsea revealed how her early career was dominated by relentless goal-setting: "I set goals, and the minute that I hit that goal, I am immediately onto the next." This constant chase left her unable to celebrate her victories, even when she made history as the first-ever United States Women's Champion. "I was so focused on what's next… I couldn't enjoy what was happening in the moment." She has since reframed her mindset: "In wrestling, it can be here today, gone tomorrow," and now makes a conscious effort to savor each achievement.Takeaway: Celebrate accomplishments as they come instead of always racing toward the next milestone.Doing HomeworkChelsea's journey was shaped by listening to her gut—even when it meant dramatic pivots. From leaving a kinesiology degree to traveling abroad and then abandoning a future as a personal trainer, she recalls: "I was on my computer doing some homework and wrestling came on TV. I just could not take my eyes off the screen. They were doing everything that I've ever wanted to do combined — they need to be fit and healthy, they're dramatic, they're doing stunts," she remembers. That moment led her to drop out and enroll in wrestling school, launching her storied career.Takeaway: Trust inner signals—sometimes the opportunity meant for you appears when least expected.
Setting a RoutineUnlike many athletes, Chelsea avoids strict pre-show routines: "Every venue is different… I never want to rely on a routine or a schedule that's going to get messed up." Her philosophy is "easy breezy," ensuring she's always ready. She keeps the pressure in check, telling her team before matches: "Girls, in 10 minutes we're gonna be done and on our way to bed." She credits her success with an ability to keep things light. "Look, you're watching me play fight in my underwear with my best friends. It's not that serious."Takeaway: Flexibility and humor can be powerful antidotes to stress—especially when stakes feel high.Subscribe to the How Success Happens newsletter for more great leadership tips!
WWE | Getty Images
Some people overcome career obstacles. Other people punch obstacles in the face.Such is the case for WWE superstar Chelsea Green, who joined the How Success Happens podcast and shared her "follow your instincts" approach to making career decisions. Chelsea was studying kinesiology in college and aiming to become a physical therapist when she realized it wasn't her "calling." She thought about becoming a personal trainer, but after seeing a wrestling match—by chance—on TV, the plan changed. The drama, the athleticism, and the choreographed violence she saw on the screen immediately spoke to her: "Something triggered in my mind that is what I need to be doing," she says.She enrolled in a wrestling school that happened to be just down the road, putting her on a path to wrestling stardom and being crowned the first Women's United States Champion. "Never be afraid to try new things," Chelsea advises, "and also don't be afraid to say, 'This isn't for me, I'm going to try something else.'"
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Dan Bova
Entrepreneur Staff
VP of Special Projects
Dan Bova is the VP of Special Projects at Entrepreneur.com. He previously worked at Jimmy Kimmel Live, Maxim, and Spy magazine. His latest books for kids include This Day in History, Car and Driver's Trivia Zone, Road & Track Crew's Big & Fast Cars, The Big Little Book of Awesome Stuff, and Wendell the Werewolf.
Read his humor column This Should Be Fun if you want to feel better about yourself.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Science & Technology
7 AI Tools to Build a Profitable One-Person Business That Runs While You Sleep
Smart systems to help solo founders scale fast.
By
Ben Angel
Business News
A New Trial Will Determine If You Were 'Tricked' Into Joining Amazon Prime
Prime is the world's biggest subscription service with nearly 200 million paying members.
By
Sherin Shibu
Health & Wellness
Strengthen Your Memory for a Business Edge
Scientifically proven techniques, now in your pocket.
By
Entrepreneur Store
Cryptocurrency / Blockchain
Here's What's Slowing Blockchain Adoption for Businesses — and the Key to Moving It Forward
Build once, deploy everywhere — why cross-chain flexibility is the key to mainstream blockchain adoption.
By
Wesley Crook
Business News
Who's Buying TikTok? Here's What We Know About Who Gets the Algorithm.
The deal is reportedly set to be finalized as soon as this week.
By
Erin Davis
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC