Daredevil: Born Again confirmed for season 3, clearing up star's 'final season' comments
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
It'll start shooting in 2026
Daredevil: Born Again officially confirmed for season 3
By
Austin Manchester
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Daredevil: Born Again
Related
This controversial shooter is promising lower prices to boost its Steam visibility
4 days ago
The smartest sci-fi movie of the '90s is streaming now on Paramount Plus
5 days ago
Here's what the Dragon Quest 7 remake is re-imagining
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Credit: Photo: Giovanni Rufino/Marvel Studios
Daredevil: Born Again has been greenlit for a third season, according to Marvel Studios' head of streaming, television, and animation Brad Winderbaum. "In terms of Daredevil, yeah, we are greenlit for Season 3 and we start shooting next year," Winderbaum told IGN. The sequel series to the original Netflix Daredevil show went through a turbulent development period, and was overhauled during the 2023 Hollywood strikes. It was originally supposed to be an 18-episode series, so Born Again returning for season 2 in 2026 isn't too surprising. But after Charlie Cox called season 2 the show's "final season," viewers were naturally left wondering about the fate of the Man Without Fear. Turns out, that fate is a third season. Daredevil: Born Again will return in 2026, and the titular hero will be joined by a familiar face. Krysten Ritter is set to reprise her role as Jessica Jones in the show's second season, reuniting half of the Defenders. (No word yet on if Mike Colter's Luke Cage or Finn Jones' Iron Fist will be tagging along.) Jon Bernthal's Punisher is expected to return as well, and he'll also star in his own television special in 2026. Season 2 of Daredevil: Born Again will see Daredevil leading vigilantes in a fight against Mayor Wilson Fisk and his Anti-Vigilante Task Force. It seems to pull inspiration from recent Daredevil comics, which fans of the show should definitely check out.
News
Entertainment
Marvel
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
Aztec Batman stretches the limits of the Dark Knight past his breaking point
5 days ago
EA promises Sims 4 bug fixes are on the way (again)
2 days ago
Why Hollow Knight: Silksong is so dang hard, according to Team Cherry
4 days ago
Sonic Racing keeps throwing messy potshots at Mario Kart World
More from our brands
Every Marvel Movie and Show You Need To Watch Before ‘Daredevil: Born Again’
Here's What You Need to Remember About Matt Murdock Before Daredevil: Born Again
Who Is Adam in Daredevil: Born Again? Kingpin's Mysterious Prisoner Explained
How Different Is Daredevil: Born Again From the Netflix Series? It's Complicated
Daredevil & The Defenders Complete Timeline: What Order To Watch
The 13 Best Episodes of 'Daredevil,' According to IMDb
'The Punisher' Season 2 Ending Explained: Does Frank Castle Get Revenge?
Most Popular
This anime fight is one of the best of all time, but not for the reason you might think
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle reveals why not every anime can become a movie
Alien: Earth just pulled off a surprising first for the franchise's iconic monster
My most-played Switch 2 game is this roguelike you've never heard of
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Sonic the Hedgehog is so back, but for real this time
See More
Trending Now
One of the best arcs in One Piece is finally coming to Netflix
Vampire: The Masquerade — Bloodlines 2 feels like Assassin's Creed stapled to Disco Elysium
Matt Reeves just dropped a huge clue about The Batman 2's secret supervillain
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.