With ACA costs on the rise, Trump team promotes more limited catastrophic health insurance plans - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
HealthWatch
|
Eat
Move
Sleep
Love
Mental Health
Health Essentials
Spotlight On: Gut Health
Watch CBS News
HealthWatch
With ACA costs on the rise, Trump team promotes more limited catastrophic health insurance plans
By
Julie Appleby
September 17, 2025 / 5:00 AM EDT
/ KFF Health News
Premiums expected to rise for ACA enrollees
Health care premiums expected to rise for Affordable Care Act enrollees
02:58
Trump administration officials, looking at the possible impact of large insurance premium increases for millions of next year's Obamacare customers, want more people to consider plans with less generous benefits and high deductibles. The agency that oversees the ACA announced early this month that it would expand eligibility for "catastrophic" plans sold in Affordable Care Act online marketplaces. The plans require people to spend more than $10,000 a year on deductibles before the policies pay most medical costs but carry lower monthly premiums than other Obamacare policies.The move reflects growing concern among Republicans about political backlash if Congress doesn't extend larger tax credits put in place during the COVID-19 public health emergency to help consumers pay their premiums. The extra subsidies are set to expire at the end of the year, resulting in an average 75% increase in the amount people pay for coverage, according to KFF, a health information nonprofit that includes KFF Health News. A small, bipartisan group of House lawmakers introduced legislation to extend the enhanced COVID-era subsidies for one more year, which would keep them in place through midterm congressional elections in the fall.But the fate of that legislation is uncertain, with many Republicans opposed to extending the extra tax credits, with a permanent change costing at least $335 billion over 10 years. Without an extension, tax credit amounts would revert to pre-pandemic levels.
"They spent the last 15 years against the ACA, so a lot will be steadfast, but others are worried about the effect of massively spiked premiums on their constituents," noted a Democratic Senate staffer who asked not to be identified because they weren't authorized to speak to the media.Republicans currently control Congress by slim margins, raising the stakes if voters who lose their ACA tax credits blame them at the ballot box. Catastrophic plans are a little-known type of Obamacare policy that have previously been limited mainly to people under age 30. While they come with lower monthly premiums than other types of ACA plans, the coverage has higher annual deductibles, which are set at the out-of-pocket maximum for the year: $10,600 for individuals in 2026 or $21,200 for families.A deductible is the amount patients must spend on health care before insurance plans pay for most services. Catastrophic plans do cover three primary care visits a year without having to pay the full deductible and, as with other ACA policies, policyholders pay nothing for preventive services such as some cancer screenings and vaccines.
The catastrophic plans will automatically show up on the federal marketplace, healthcare.gov, for consumers who lose tax credit coverage entirely next year due to their household income. Another category of consumers — people who continue to qualify for tax credits but not for subsidies that reduce out-of-pocket costs — may also be eligible but would have to send in paperwork."By expanding access to catastrophic plans, we are making sure hardworking people who face unexpected hardships can get affordable coverage that protects them from devastating medical costs," Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Administrator Mehmet Oz said in a statement. It isn't clear whether the policy changes will make the plans more attractive to consumers. Catastrophic plans aren't available in all states, and the size of the deductibles can be off-putting. "It's a ton of money," said Louise Norris, a health insurance analyst and broker who writes regularly about the ACA. "A full-price catastrophic plan is still more expensive than some people can afford, but they're doing this to offer a slightly more affordable option." Catastrophic plans have had limited appeal, with only about 54,000 out of Obamacare's 24 million enrollees currently opting for the coverage, according to government data, Norris said."Uptake has always been quite low," said Katie Keith, director of the O'Neill Institute's Center for Health Policy and the Law at Georgetown University. "It's not a bad option if it is the only option you have. I question whether consumers are looking for this kind of coverage."CMS plans to grant people a "hardship" designation to enroll in catastrophic plans if they lose eligibility for ACA tax credits next year. Most likely to qualify are people earning more than four times the federal poverty rate ($62,600 for an individual this year, or $106,600 for a family of three), who will lose access to all premium subsidies if Congress does not extend the current enhanced tax credits. It's also unclear how much premiums will cost. Insurers, reacting to the new administration guidance, might seek to recalculate their rates based on what they estimate may be an influx of older people into the plans, Norris said.
AHIP, the insurance industry lobbying group, is pushing hard for the larger tax credits to be extended. It did not comment specifically on how the new guidance might affect catastrophic health plan premiums. Still, AHIP spokesperson Chris Bond said that "while catastrophic plans can provide important coverage for specific needs, they are not a replacement for affordable comprehensive coverage."There are other hurdles. Norris said insurers don't offer plans at all in 10 states: Alaska, Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, Utah, and Wyoming. And where they are available, options are few. This year, for example, a 25-year-old in Orlando, Florida, had a choice of 61 "bronze" plans, the cheapest level of coverage available to all ACA shoppers, but just three catastrophic plans.Policy experts say the expanded eligibility for catastrophic plans makes it more important than ever for consumers to consider all options when shopping for ACA coverage during the annual open enrollment period, which starts Nov. 1. In addition to the catastrophic and bronze plans, there are also "silver" and "gold" plans, each with varying premiums and deductibles.Bronze plans have the lowest premiums but the highest deductibles; the average bronze deductible this year is $7,186, which is still lower than the catastrophic plans, according to KFF.Catastrophic plan deductibles, while high, are comparable to some bronze plans, Norris noted. People who choose catastrophic plans are not eligible for any ACA tax subsidies to help pay monthly premiums.A pending court battle may provide lawmakers concerned about voter pushback on Obamacare changes an unintended reprieve.In late August, a federal judge in Maryland temporarily put on hold some changes the Trump administration had ordered for next year. Those changes, included in a June regulatory filing by the administration, would have added additional verification paperwork requirements for some people enrolling in ACA plans, and were challenged by several cities, which cited government estimates that the changes could cause up to 1.8 million people to lose their insurance in 2026.
The court ruling stayed several provisions of the Trump administration rules, including income verification requirements that would affect people below the poverty level and those without tax return information. The move also paused verification requirements affecting people who apply outside the annual open enrollment period and blocked a $5 monthly charge for people who are automatically enrolled into plans in which subsidies cover the entire premium — unless they contact the marketplace and confirm their selection.The Trump administration is appealing the decision, but the case may not be settled until next year, said Keith at Georgetown University. That makes it likely that the pause of the new requirements will stay in place for this year's open enrollment season.Keith said the ruling was a "bigger deal" than expanding eligibility for catastrophic plans. "Consumers all across the country won't have to deal with red tape the Trump administration rushed to put into place ahead of the new plan year," and the ruling also "helps people keep their coverage."KFF Health News is a national newsroom that produces in-depth journalism about health issues and is one of the core operating programs at KFF — the independent source for health policy research, polling, and journalism.
More from CBS News
Culvert repair, pedestrian walkway construction in Littleton will close Broadway
Colorado police ask people not to call 911 for Wyoming pipeline fire, smoke
Denver Broncos host Evergreen High School team while school closed following shooting
Denver auditor's message to mayor: "Stop interfering" with budget
Cooldown expected after a warm Sunday in Colorado
Affordable Care Act
Health Care
KFF Health News, formerly known as Kaiser Health News (KHN), is a national newsroom that produces in-depth journalism about health issues and is part of KFF,
an independent source for health policy research, polling, and journalism.
More from CBS News
Trump nominates replacement for acting U.S. attorney in office probing Letitia James
Trump administration to add $100,000 fee for H-1B visas
Trump asks Supreme Court to intervene on Venezuelan deportation protections
Voting kicks off in Virginia governor's race — as Trump policies take center-stage
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue