What time does Genshin Impact 'Luna I' release?
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Genshin Impact
When will you be able to explore Nod-Krai?
What time does Genshin Impact 'Luna I' release?
By
Julia Lee
Published Sep 8, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Image: Hoyoverse
Jump Links
What time does Genshin Impact go down for maintenance?
What time does Genshin Impact version 'Luna I' start?
What’s new in Genshin Impact version 'Luna I'?
Genshin Impact's version "Luna I" is coming soon, alongside a bunch of new content to play through. This version adds the new region, Nod-Krai to the game, alongside new story quests. It also introduces a whole new cast of characters to accompany the new area to explore. While some players are calling this version 6.0, Hoyoverse is very pointedly calling this patch "Luna I." Below, we explain when Genshin Impact maintenance starts and ends, alongside the release time of version "Luna I". We’ve also added some details about what to expect from Genshin Impact patch "Luna I".
What time does Genshin Impact go down for maintenance?
Genshin Impact will go down for maintenance on Tuesday, Sept. 9 or Wednesday, Sept. 10 (depending on your time zone) at the following times and will be unavailable for approximately five hours:
3 p.m. PDT on Tuesday, Sept. 9 for the west coast of North America
6 p.m. EDT on Tuesday, Sept. 9 for the east coast of North America
7 p.m. BRT on Tuesday, Sept. 9 for Brazil
11 p.m. BST on Tuesday, Sept. 9 for the U.K.
12 a.m. CEST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for western Europe
7 a.m. JST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for Japan
8 a.m. AEST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for Australia
Make sure to burn your resin before maintenance starts, if you wanted to, but remember that the new battle pass will start once the patch goes live, so you may want to save some of it.
What time does Genshin Impact version 'Luna I' start?
Genshin Impact should come back from maintenance with the "Luna I" version at the following times:
8 p.m. PDT on Tuesday, Sept. 9 for the west coast of North America
11 p.m. EDT on Tuesday, Sept. 9 for the east coast of North America
12 a.m. EDT on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for Brazil
4 a.m. BST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for the U.K.
5 a.m. CEST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for western Europe
12 p.m. JST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for Japan
1 p.m. AEST on Wednesday, Sept. 10 for Australia
The servers may come up early or late, depending on how maintenance goes, but these are the approximate times the new version should go live. Usually Hoyoverse is pretty good by abiding by maintenance times. We don’t usually get extended maintenance, but it does end early sometimes!
What’s new in Genshin Impact version 'Luna I'?
This patch adds Nod-Krai, alongside the Archon Quest, "Song of the Welkin Moon." There are tons of new characters being introduced in this area. We've already gotten Ineffa in the last patch, but this new version will also add the Electro polearm-user, Flins, Dendro catalyst-user, Lauma, and Hydro claymore-user, Aino. There'll also be a set of limited-time challenges to complete as part of the "Clink Clank Clash" event that rewards an event-exclusive weapon, as well as the usual goodies.
Guides
Genshin Impact guides
Mobile
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 8, 2025
'Am I just terrible?': Silksong's diabolical Hunter's March has fans ripping their hair out
Sep 9, 2025
Pacific Drive will go full folk horror in new expansion Whispers in the Woods
Sep 9, 2025
The best Marvel's Spider-Man bonus sheet cards (and the comics that inspired them)
Sep 9, 2025
What do they even teach at Nevermore Academy?
More from our brands
Genshin Impact 5.7 Release Date & Maintenance End Time
Genshin Impact 6.0 Livestream Codes & Time (Nod-Krai Livestream)
Genshin Impact Reveals New Region and Characters in Latest Livestream
Genshin Impact 5.3 Maintenance Start & End Time
Genshin Impact 5.8 Release Date & Maintenance End Time
Genshin Impact 5.8 Livestream Date & Time
Genshin Impact 5.6 Release Date & Maintenance End Time
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
This Steam best seller is the coolest thing I've played in a long time
Looks like Rockstar's getting ahead of GTA 6 role-playing
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.