Best Blood Pressure Monitors for 2025 | FDA Approved for at Home Use - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessMedical Health Tech
Best FDA-Approved Home Blood Pressure Monitors
Track your blood pressure from the comfort of your home with these doctor-approved blood pressure monitors.
Our Experts
Written by
Jessica Rendall
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Written by
Amanda Capritto
Article updated on September 21, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Jessica Rendall Former Wellness Reporter Jessica was a writer on the Wellness team, with a focus on health technology, eye care, nutrition and finding new approaches to chronic health problems. Expertise Public health, new wellness technology and health hacks that don't cost money Credentials Added coconut oil to cheap coffee before keto made it cool.
See full bio
Reviewed by: Troy Mensen, DO Medical Reviewer Dr. Troy Mensen is a family medicine doctor based in the Chicago area. He completed his undergraduate degree at the University of Northern Iowa and his doctorate at Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine. Expertise Family medicine Credentials American Board of Family Medicine, Family MedicineState of Illinois, Medical Examining Board License Education University of Northern Iowa, BADes Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine, DO See more
Amanda Capritto
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Whether your blood pressure monitor has been clinically validated
You don't need a prescription or a doctor's recommendation to monitor your blood pressure at home, so you can buy whatever one you please online. But for the best and safest results, make sure you choose a monitor that's been tested to confirm it does what the company says it can. You can also ask your doctor for their recommendation.
Cost, cuff size and other factors
The fanciest blood pressure monitor out there will mean nothing if you don't use it or you can't afford it. Consider whether you want a more involved setup, or a "no-frills" type of monitor. Other factors also come into play, such as finding an appropriate cuff size for your arm or whether you want an easy way to share results with your doctor.
Follow the rules for taking your own blood pressure
Your blood pressure can be tipped slightly by many factors, so to get an accurate reading you need to control things like posture, how recently you've eaten or consumed coffee and how still you're sitting. For a complete list of tips on how to take your blood pressure at home, refer to the American Heart Association and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
According to the American Heart Association, if you're at risk of a heart condition or hypertension, it's important to monitor your blood pressure regularly. There are several at-home blood pressure monitors that make the process easy and allow your physician to confirm diagnoses. But not all blood pressure monitors are made equal and to help you pick a reliable unit for home use, we spoke with cardiologists to find the most accurate and user-friendly options on the market -- all FDA-approved. Our Picks
Best smart blood pressure monitor Withings BPM Connect Wi-Fi Smart Blood Pressure Monitor
Jump to details
$129 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best blood pressure monitor with EKG Omron Complete Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor + EKG
Jump to details
$190 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best blood pressure monitor for larger arms LifeSource Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor With Extra Large Cuff
Jump to details
$96 at Walmart
Jump to details
Most affordable blood pressure monitor Omron 3 Series
Jump to details
$38 at Walmart
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best FDA-Approved Home Blood Pressure Monitors
Who should be tracking their blood pressure?
What should you watch for while monitoring your blood pressure at home?
How we chose the best blood pressure monitors
Best smart blood pressure monitor
Best blood pressure monitor with EKG
Best blood pressure monitor for larger arms
Most affordable blood pressure monitor
What to know about wrist blood pressure monitors
What makes a good heart monitor?
Other factors to consider when shopping for an at-home blood pressure monitor
How do you use a blood pressure monitor?
Are there symptoms of high blood pressure?
Are there symptoms of low blood pressure?
Who should be tracking their blood pressure?Ideally, everyone should, according to Dr. Mary Branch, a cardiologist at Cone Health in Greensboro, North Carolina."Blood pressure is a good overall measure of health, so really anyone can," Branch said. She added that some people may feel blood pressure is only something to worry about when you're older, but it's important to establish a baseline when you're younger, along with other basic health metrics like A1C (an average blood sugar metric that screens for diabetes) and lipids (insight into cholesterol).While anyone who's been advised to track blood pressure regularly should do so, it's especially true for those diagnosed with hypertension. Other populations may be at higher risk of potentially dangerous conditions involving high blood pressure and may benefit from more home monitoring.Branch advised anyone planning a pregnancy to start tracking their blood pressure because of the risk of preeclampsia, which is a serious and potentially fatal condition involving high blood pressure during pregnancy. Similarly, those who had high blood pressure during pregnancy should track it after giving birth, Branch advised.What should you watch for while monitoring your blood pressure at home?Blood pressure is read with two numbers: systolic (the top number, which tells you the pressure your arteries are under with each heart beat) and diastolic (the bottom number, which indicates how much pressure your arteries are under between beats). Only a doctor can diagnose hypertension or chronically high blood pressure, but monitoring at home can clue you in that measurements may be higher than normal and cue you to reach out to a doctor, who can help you get to the bottom of it or manage your heart health. (It's important to note that any blood pressure reading above 180 systolic — top number — or 120 diastolic, is considered a hypertensive crisis and you should seek medical care immediately.)But monitoring your blood pressure can provide other clues about your heart health. Dr. Mustali Dohadwala, medical director of Heartsafe in Boston, said that "erratic" blood pressure readings, meaning those that are significantly lower or higher morning to night, or even minute to minute, can indicate an irregular heartbeat such as atrial fibrillation. Some models of blood pressure monitors have irregular heartbeat detection or EKG built in.On the other hand, lower-than-normal blood pressure can also be detected through home monitoring.
This chart from the American Heart Association gives different categories of blood pressure readings and what yours may mean. American Heart AssociationHow we chose the best blood pressure monitorsAlong with a handful of other monitors, the Withings, LifeSource and Omron Complete with EKG models went through hands-on testing in 2019. Based on factors such as consistency, brand credibility and accuracy, these models remain solid choices today. The Omron 3 series was added last year based on cardiologist preference for the brand in addition to its affordability.
Withings
Photo Gallery 1/1
Withings
Best smart blood pressure monitor
Withings BPM Connect Wi-Fi Smart Blood Pressure Monitor
Pros
Allows for multiple users
Clinically validated
Cons
There are more affordable blood pressure monitors
The Withings BPM Connect feels trendy, and it provides a consistent and accurate result. For the upper arm cuff fit, comfort and ease of use, the Withings BPM Connect holds its own. The app is also a breeze once you're in, and it has unlimited storage for your BP measurement needs (although the device will remember only up to eight readings in between syncs). You can also set up multiple user profiles in the Withings Health Mate app, which is a plus if you have multiple people in a household that want to track their blood pressure.  ... Show more
Get it now
$129 at Amazon
$130 at Best Buy
Omron Healthcare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Omron Healthcare
Best blood pressure monitor with EKG
Omron Complete Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor + EKG
Pros
Very consistent readings
Tracks other health metrics, like pulse and atrial fibrillation
Cons
Bulkier than other models
On the expensive side
The Omron Complete Wireless Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor with EKG was the first FDA-approved combination EKG-blood pressure device in the US. Omron produced the product in partnership with AliveCor, which powers many FDA-approved consumer electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) devices.It's worth mentioning is that this blood pressure monitor gave the most consistent readings throughout the entire testing process. It measures so much more than just blood pressure. In addition to the essentials — systolic and diastolic blood pressure — this Omron model measures your pulse, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, bradycardia and sinus rhythm simultaneously.If you need a seamless way to measure two or more of those metrics, this upper-arm monitor is a top choice. The Omron app interface is simple, and it can store unlimited data. The cuff is comfortable and flexible, making it easy to get a good fit, which helps with accuracy.The monitor is a little bulkier than other models but probably worth it for people who need all those other measurements in one place. It comes in a nice carrying case that you can use for traveling.  ... Show more
Get it now
$190 at Walmart
$140 at Target
Lifesource
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lifesource
Best blood pressure monitor for larger arms
LifeSource Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor With Extra Large Cuff
Pros
Accommodates arm circumference up to 23.6 inches
Cons
May give inaccurate results for smaller arms
More expensive than other models
If you have larger upper arms, you know that not all arm monitors fit comfortably, making blood pressure management and monitoring a huge pain. Enter the LifeSource Upper Arm Blood Pressure Monitor With Extra Large Cuff; this blood pressure cuff accommodates an arm circumference of a bit more than 23 inches.There didn't seem to be a lot of information about this one online, but LifeSource is a brand of A&D Medical, a medical equipment brand that's been manufacturing at-home consumer devices for close to 50 years. Despite being tested on a smaller arm in 2019, it did produce consistent readings. Although the blood pressure level readings were wrong in our tests, they were likely due to the arm size of the user and not the fault of the device. That gave hope that this extra-large cuff is indeed accurate for the people it actually fits.It has a memory capable of storing 60 readings, which is in line with many blood pressure monitors in this price range, and better than some of the cheaper models.  ... Show more
Get it now
$96 at Walmart
$139 at Amazon
Omron
Photo Gallery 1/1
Omron
Most affordable blood pressure monitor
Omron 3 Series
Pros
One of the more affordable blood pressure monitors
Fewer frills than other monitors will benefit users wanting a simple setup
Clinically validated brand
Cons
Less storage for blood pressure reading history than other models
The Omron 3 Series is one of the more affordable blood pressure monitors out there, and importantly, it's one you can also feel confident has been clinically validated.Omron also appears to be a favorite brand among the cardiologists we spoke with. Dr. Trent Orfanos, director of integrative and functional cardiology at Case Integrative Health, said he recommends Omron as a brand patients should consider when shopping for an at-home blood pressure monitor. He said he doesn't usually "spell out a model," but that he likes the Omron brand as it has many clinically validated models listed on validatebp.org.The Omron 3 Series appears to be an older and more affordable model than other blood pressure machines by the company. The 3 Series can store up to 14 blood pressure readings, which you can transfer to the Omron connect app. Users wanting to share a blood pressure monitor with another household member, or those requiring one with more memory, would be better suited by another Omron model.  ... Show more
Get it now
$38 at Walmart
$45 at Target
$56 at Best Buy
What to know about wrist blood pressure monitors
Right now, the American Heart Association doesn't recommend using a finger or wrist blood pressure monitor. All three of the doctors we spoke with said people should avoid buying a blood pressure monitor that measures from the wrist."The wrist cuffs tend to be inaccurate," Orfanos said. "They tend to exaggerate the blood pressure," he added, meaning readings may be higher than they really are. What makes a good heart monitor?
You'd want accurate readings and a wide feature set from your heart monitor. The readings aren’t a substitute for regular visits with a healthcare provider, especially if you think you might have a problem. A good heart monitor is easy to use, delivers accurate data, tracks your progress and provides data that can be used by your physician to aid with your treatment.
Other factors to consider when shopping for an at-home blood pressure monitor
Size of your arm: What's a good fit, cuff-wise, for a larger arm might not be the best fit for a smaller one, and vice versa. Measure the circumference of your arm before you purchase a cuff and monitor to make sure it'll suit your needs.Other heart conditions: Some devices may provide other health metrics, like pulse rate, or detect other health conditions, like irregular heartbeat.Clinical validation: This means the device has gone through testing that satisfies medical standards. The easiest way to check your blood pressure monitor has been clinically validated is to look for one listed on validatebp.org.Bring it into your doctor's office for a test run: If you have hypertension and want to keep tabs on your blood pressure at home, it's a great idea to bring in your blood pressure monitor to your doctor's office so you can measure your cuff against theirs, making sure readings are aligned and that you're measuring properly. How do you use a blood pressure monitor?
The American Heart Association has a few tips for you to keep in mind before and during your blood pressure reading. For the most accurate results, you should:Avoid caffeine, smoking or exercising within 30 minutes of taking your blood pressureEmpty your bladder and rest for 5 minutes before the readingSit correctly with your feet flat on the floor, your back straight and supported, your arm resting on a flat surfaceMake sure you're not measuring over clothing, including shirtsleevesDon't talk or carry on a conversation while taking your blood pressureSecure the cuff directly above the bend of the elbow and check your monitor's specific instructionsMeasure at the same time every dayTake two readings per day, about 1 minute apart Are there symptoms of high blood pressure?
High blood pressure is called the "silent killer" because there are often no obvious signs you have it.According to the American Heart Association some symptoms are inconclusively related to high blood pressure, such as dizziness, facial flushing and blood spots in the eye. This means that they may occur in people with high blood pressure, but that they aren't necessarily caused by blood pressure.If you're experiencing very high blood pressure — typically 180/120 or higher, according to the World Health Organization — you may have symptoms, and you should consider this a medical emergency. Call for help and get medical care right away.According to the WHO, symptoms of emergency-level blood pressure can include:Severe headachesChest painDizzinessDifficulty breathingNauseaVomitingBlurred vision or other vision changesAnxietyConfusionBuzzing in the earsNosebleedsAbnormal heart rhythm Are there symptoms of low blood pressure?
While getting a low blood pressure reading is often considered a positive thing, you may start feeling unwell if your blood pressure gets too low. Low blood pressure, or hypotension, occurs when the blood pressure is less than 90/60, according to the American Heart Association. It can happen for a variety of reasons, from dehydration or prolonged standing to underlying health conditions or heart problems.Symptoms can include: ConfusionDizzinessFaintingBlurred visionNauseaFatiguePain in the neck or backHeadacheHeart palpitationsThe American Heart Association notes that one low reading is not necessarily cause for concern, but does warn that you should call your doctor or seek prompt medical care if you experience a sudden decline in blood pressure.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Jessica Rendall Former Wellness Reporter Jessica Rendall Former Wellness Reporter
Jessica was a writer on the Wellness team, with a focus on health technology, eye care, nutrition and finding new approaches to chronic health problems.
Read full bio
Also written by
Troy Mensen, DO Medical ReviewerAlso written by
Amanda Capritto
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.