Gestational diabetes linked to autism in study: what scientists say
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
22 September 2025
Gestational diabetes linked to autism in study: what scientists say
Meanwhile, US President Donald Trump says his administration has “found an answer to autism”.
By
Rachel Fieldhouse0
Rachel Fieldhouse
Rachel Fieldhouse is a reporter for Nature in Sydney, Australia.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Gestational diabetes can have long-term effects on women’s health. Credit: Yui Mok/PA Images via AlamyLast week, a study involving more than nine million pregnancies reported that children whose mothers had gestational diabetes during pregnancy had a higher chance of developing attention deficit–hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism than did children whose mothers didn’t have the condition.The study, presented at the European Association for the Study of Diabetes in Vienna, is under review at a peer-reviewed journal. It is not the first to link gestational diabetes to neurodevelopmental disorders in children, but it is one of the largest. Researchers pooled results from 48 studies across 20 countries, finding that children born to people with gestational diabetes had lower IQ scores, a 36% higher risk of ADHD and a 56% higher risk of autism spectrum disorders. Estimates suggest the prevalence of autism in the general population is one in 127 people1 and 3–10%2 of children and teenagers have ADHD.The latest results mirror those of another meta-analysis3, published in The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology journal in June, which included 56 million mother–child pairs and found that all types of diabetes in pregnancy, including type 1, type 2 and gestational diabetes, increase the risk of the baby developing ADHD and autism. But none of these studies has been able to show that diabetes during pregnancy causes these conditions. “There’s no doubt that there is a signal here, but certainly further research is required,” says Alex Polyakov, an obstetrician and researcher at the University of Melbourne in Australia.Long a topic of research, the causes of autism have been thrust into the spotlight by the administration of US President Donald Trump. On Sunday, while speaking at the memorial for conservative activist Charlie Kirk, Trump said: “I think we found an answer to autism. How about that?” The Washington Post reports that Trump’s administration is poised to announce a link between autism and the use of acetaminophen, also called paracetamol, during pregnancy. Medical guidelines say acetominophen is safe to use during pregnancy.Overall, genetics has the strongest influence on the risk of developing ADHD and autism. Environmental factors, such as folic-acid deficiency, air pollution and gestational diabetes, have a small-to-moderate effect on the risk of these conditions, says Ling-Jun Li, a clinician–scientist at the National University of Singapore and a co-author on the latest gestational diabetes study.Polyakov agrees: “In practice, both genetic predisposition and environmental factors likely interact.”Health impactsStudies over the past two decades4 have shown that gestational diabetes has long-term effects on women’s health, such as increasing their risk of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, stroke and chronic kidney disease.Li and her colleagues decided to review the evidence for effects of the condition on neurocognitive development in children.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03024-5
ReferencesGlobal Burden of Disease Study 2021 Autism Spectrum Collaborators. Lancet Psychiatry 12, 111–121 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Martin, A. F. et al. J. Affect. Disord. 388, 119427 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Ye, W. et al. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 13, 494–504 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Shou, C., Wei, Y.-M, Wang, C. & Yang, H.-X. Matern. Fetal Med. 1, 91–94 (2019).Article
Google Scholar
Chan, A. Y. L. et al. Nature Med. 30, 1416–1423 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
High-profile autism genetics project paused amid backlash
Pregnant mice illuminate risk factors that could lead to autism
Autism and DDT: What one million pregnancies can — and can’t — reveal
Subjects
Diabetes
Genetics
Obesity
Latest on:
Diabetes
Genetics
Obesity
Your risk of dying from chronic disease has dropped — if you live in these countries
News 10 SEP 25
Hope for diabetes: CRISPR-edited cells pump out insulin in a person — and evade immune detection
News 05 SEP 25
Obesity drugs made in China could power next wave of treatments
News 30 JUN 25
US serial killer case opens door to using cutting-edge DNA data in courts
News 25 SEP 25
Huntington’s disease treated for first time using gene therapy
News 25 SEP 25
The Biodiversity Cell Atlas: mapping the tree of life at cellular resolution
Perspective 24 SEP 25
Peroxisomal metabolism of branched fatty acids regulates energy homeostasis
Article 17 SEP 25
‘Brain dial’ turns food consumption on or off in mice
News 10 SEP 25
Are ultra-processed foods really so unhealthy? What the science says
News Feature 03 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University School of Medicine
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
High-profile autism genetics project paused amid backlash
Pregnant mice illuminate risk factors that could lead to autism
Autism and DDT: What one million pregnancies can — and can’t — reveal
Subjects
Diabetes
Genetics
Obesity
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited