Genshin Impact version 'Luna I' livestream codes
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Genshin Impact
Use these codes for an easy 300 Primogems
Genshin Impact version 'Luna I' livestream codes
By
Julia Lee
Published Aug 29, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Image: Hoyoverse
Quick Links
Genshin Impact version 'Luna I' livestream codes
How to redeem Genshin Impact gift codes
Hoyoverse just wrapped up the Genshin Impact version "Luna I" preview livestream, showing off all sorts of details about the upcoming patch. Most importantly, there were several codes that award Primogems and other rewards shown during the stream. Our Genshin Impact "Luna I" livestream code list provides you with the three stream codes for rewards and explains how to redeem them. Notably, this upcoming version is not being called 6.0 by Hoyoverse, but rather "Luna I." The stream showed off Nod-Krai, the upcoming region coming to the game, alongside the Archon Quest, "Song of the Welkin Moon." There are tons of new characters being introduced in this area. We've already gotten Ineffa in the last patch, but this new version will also add the Electro polearm-user, Flins, Dendro catalyst-user, Lauma, and Hydro claymore-user, Aino. There'll also be a set of limited-time challenges to complete as part of the "Clink Clank Clash" event that rewards an event-exclusive weapon, as well as the usual goodies.
Genshin Impact version 'Luna I' livestream codes
The codes are as follows:
LunaI0910
LaumaNodKraiFlins
HiFiveTraveler
You’ll want to redeem these codes quickly, as they expire on Sept. 1 at 12 a.m. EDT. They not only reward Primogems, but they also give Mora and Adventurer’s EXP to level up your characters.
How to redeem Genshin Impact gift codes
To redeem codes, you can log in and input them on the code redemption website. You can also input them in-game through the settings menu, but copy and pasting them in a browser is much easier. You can also click the links above, if you’re logged in on whatever device you’re seeing this post on. Once you redeem the codes, you’ll get the rewards via in-game mail shortly after that.
Guides
Genshin Impact guides
Mobile
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 8, 2025
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting a rare $20 card with epic new Marvel art
Sep 9, 2025
2025 is the best year for 2D platformers since the SNES days
Sep 9, 2025
The Conjuring: Last Rites won't be the last Conjuring, right?
Sep 10, 2025
Apex Legends' mid-season update brings lots of explosive tricks, but few Halloween treats
Most Popular
As Steal A Brainrot takes over Fortnite, fans worry about the platform's future
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
Aztec Batman stretches the limits of the Dark Knight past his breaking point
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Geralt's 'blood-soaked' new adventure revealed in The Witcher: Blood Stone first look
See More
Trending Now
Sony's Anaconda movie reboot is, if nothing else, a really good idea
The smartest sci-fi movie of the '90s is streaming now on Paramount Plus
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.