He Reconnected With His Ex in China and Realized He Wanted to Stay - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Careers
I left my job to travel after a hard breakup. Starting over in China gave me the life I wanted.
As told to
Lavender Au
After a hard breakup, David Fun took some time off from work and California and eventually settled down in Guangzhou, China.
Provided by David Fun
2025-09-25T00:14:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Boston-born David Fun grew up with family roots in southern China but never pictured himself living there.
A difficult breakup and a chance trip to Guangzhou changed that.
He reconnected with his ex and they are now married and settled in China.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with David Fun, 32, a Chinese American now living in China. His words have been edited for length and clarity.
I grew up happy in Boston and never thought about living anywhere else.My parents immigrated from China, and before high school, I often traveled back with them to visit family. My mother grew up with eight siblings and believed in staying close to relatives. During vacations to southern China, where my parents grew up, big family gatherings were the norm.
I always knew I wanted to work in healthcare. Since I couldn't stand blood, I chose pharmacy and finished an accelerated program at the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy in five years.I rushed through, eager to make money after growing up in a small inner-city home and envying friends with big suburban housesLooking back, I wish I'd taken time to enjoy school.
The breakup that changed my pathAfter graduation, I moved to California for work, where I met my girlfriend. She was on an F-1 OPT visa, which let her work in the US for a year before returning to China. We both knew the relationship had an expiration date.The breakup was hard.In 2019, I quit my pharmacist job and took time off, traveling through Southeast Asia with friends. At the end of that year, I visited my family in Guangzhou, a bustling city in southern China, for the first time in seven years.
Fun at an elephant sanctuary in Thailand while traveling across Southeast Asia with friends.
Provided by David Fun
I was amazed by how much had changed. Places once filled with unpaved roads and water buffalo now had malls, apartments, and orderly train stations.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
A week later, the pandemic hit. My cousins urged me to stay put, so I took a job in Shenzhen as a systems manager for a high-end chain of clinics. That's when I reconnected with my ex, who was living in Guangzhou. We got back together, and I decided to stay.Three years later, we got married.
Adapting to a new work cultureThe first year was a real struggle. I hired a tutor to relearn Chinese. The cultural differences were crazy. I had gone from an American professional setting to a Chinese company. Luckily, it was private rather than state-owned, and many of the physicians had overseas experience.In China, people often say foreigners are lazy and inefficient. I disagree. I think efficiency can be evaluated in different ways. Here, nothing moves forward without a boss's approval, so things often get stuck when the boss is busy. But the average worker is really good at the grind.In the US, employees are empowered and trusted to figure things out. There's also more risk mitigation from the beginning.
In China, people dive in and fix problems as they arise. It can take more time and money, but it works.Once my Chinese improved, I saw the logic: many midlevel employees were content and avoided responsibility beyond their pay grade, preferring to wait for the boss to sign off. I realized it was pointless to push against the system, so I went with the flow.
Fun (in Guangzhou) says family and work now take up most of his time, so he has to make an effort to carve out time for friends.
Provided by David Fun
Making friends abroadNow, I'm the senior business development manager for Greater China for a multinational healthcare distribution company.
I socialize a lot for work, but I don't see those connections as real friendships. Interest disappears without mutual benefit.Roughly 30% of my social time goes to work, and 40% to family. I have a lot of relatives in Guangzhou, and in Chinese culture, you don't just marry a person, you marry their family. I often do things for my in-laws out of obligation or for "face," but I've also grown to appreciate that, because being pushed together creates real bonds.Between family and work, I have to actively carve out time for friends. My social life was definitely better in the US, I loved inviting people over to my place to hang out. In China, people typically meet outside unless you're really close.
Expats are more open to making friends, but most don't stay long-term.
Fun and his wife met in California, but reconnected and got married in Guangzhou, China.
Provided by David Fun
Showing love differentlyWhen friends from Boston visit, my wife comments on how American couples show love differently from Chinese ones.We've had some points of contention, like when we were preparing to get married. I had to pay a dowry to her parents. My white American friends here didn't have to abide by these norms, but as an American-born Chinese, I was expected to. To her family, I was Chinese.
I paid it out of my own savings, though I wouldn't want my kids to do the same. It would feel like buying a wife or selling a daughter.My wife used to get annoyed when I didn't put food on her plate with chopsticks. For her, it was a sign of care. In front of her parents, I had to do it or they would think I didn't actually like her. At first, it felt strange. In the US, no one expects you to serve another person. But here, that is how you show love and care. So instead of arguing, I adjusted, and now it feels natural.
Do you have a story about moving to Asia that you want to share? Get in touch with the editor: akarplus@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
as told to
China
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account