This triple-A open-world FPS with 87% positive reviews is just $4.49 on Steam for a limited time
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This triple-A open-world FPS with 87% positive reviews is just $4.49 on Steam for a limited time
By
Simon Batt
Published 4 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Have you ever given a Far Cry game a try before? If you haven't, they're usually open-world FPS games where you're smack-dab in the middle of something terrible going on. You're usually fighting your way to try to escape whatever predicament you're in, and they're a ton of fun. Fortunately, if you've never played Far Cry 4 before, today is your lucky day. The game is currently $4.49 on Steam as part of a huge 85% discount, but be sure to snap it up quick, as it won't last forever.
Far Cry 4 is now just $4.49 on Steam, but not for long
While each Far Cry game has its own themes and worlds, Far Cry 4 is more about survival in a brutal world. Not only do you have soldiers to fight, but even the wildlife is out to get you. As such, you'll have to keep yourself safe from both man and beast if you're going to survive the harsh world of Kyrat. It was released back in 2014, but it still holds up well today; it scored 87% positive recent reviews on Steam and even received an update after a decade. Here's how Ubisoft describes the game:
Hidden in the towering Himalayas lies Kyrat, a country steeped in tradition and violence. You are Ajay Ghale. Traveling to Kyrat to fulfill your mother’s dying wish, you find yourself caught up in a civil war to overthrow the oppressive regime of dictator Pagan Min. Explore and navigate this vast open world, where danger and unpredictability lurk around every corner. Here, every decision counts, and every second is a story. Welcome to Kyrat.
Discover the most diverse Far Cry world ever created. With terrain spanning from lush forests to the snowcapped Himalayas, the entire world is alive…and deadly. From leopards, rhinos, black eagles, and vicious honey badgers, Kyrat is home to abundant wildlife. As you embark on your hunt for resources, know that something may be hunting you...
Right now, the base game is 85% off on Steam for just $4.49. You can grab the Far Cry 4 Gold version, which includes the season pass, for 80% off. And all of its DLC is 70% off, so if you already have Far Cry 4 and want to grab the last remaining bits, now's your chance. Just be sure to buy it before September 29th, when the game goes back to normal pricing.
8.5/10
Far Cry 4
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
FPS
Open-World
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
84/100
Critics Rec:
88%
Released
November 18, 2014
ESRB
M for Mature: Blood, Intense Violence, Nudity, Sexual Themes, Strong Language, Use of Drugs
Developer(s)
Ubisoft Montreal
Publisher(s)
Ubisoft
Engine
cryengine
Multiplayer
Online Multiplayer, Local Multiplayer
Franchise
Far Cry
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
SUBSCRIPTION
DIGITAL
PHYSICAL
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
6 days ago
6 tools that turned my NAS into the ultimate backup system
5 days ago
M.2 slot roulette still exists on many modern motherboards, so make sure you use the right one
4 days ago
I let Perplexity guide my graphic design workflow, and the results were surprising
6 days ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
More from our brands
All Borderlands 4 Editions – Which One Should You Buy?
Final Fantasy 7 Remake On Switch 2 Pre-Order Guide: Bonuses, Physical Edition, And More
All Packs in The Sims 4 September Sale (2025)
The Sims 4: Complete Guide
Steam Really Wants You To Play Every Borderlands Game Before 4 Releases, & I Think You Should Too
6 Best Open Worlds In The Far Cry Franchise
This controversial shooter is promising lower prices to boost its Steam visibility
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
23 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 ‘just-enough’ open-source apps I’m using to finally escape the Google ecosystem
Forget VRAM — these 5 GPU trends are way more disturbing
This self-hosted collaborative markdown editor is our family’s new wiki
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.