Meta Connect 2025 live updates: Reactions to Ray-Ban Display, Oakley Vanguard glasses, more | ZDNET
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Glasses
Live
Meta Connect 2025 live updates: Reactions to Ray-Ban Display, Oakley Vanguard glasses, more
Meta has unveiled its first display-enabled smart glasses, refreshed its Ray-Ban lineup, and launch several other things at Connect.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer;
Sabrina Ortiz, Senior EditorSenior Editor
and
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 18, 2025 at 8:18 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Erin Carson
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Meta Connect 2025 is officially over, and it ended with Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg and a large group of his peers literally running into the sunset. The company debuted several new products and used the event to preview upcoming advancements in artificial intelligence.Also: I used the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they offer 2 breakthroughs to take us beyond smartphonesOverall, the event was pretty short. It wasn't the nearly hour-long spectacle that Connect 2024 was, but Connect 2025 was still jam-packed with announcements. At the event, Meta showed off the second generation of its Ray Ban smartglasses, the Oakley Vanguards for adrenaline seekers, and a new generative playground called Horizon Studio. Here's what was on the docket for 2025.How to watch Meta Connect 2025The main event with Mark Zuckerberg took place on Wednesday, September 17, at 5:00 p.m. PST/8:00 p.m. EST. Following the Connect 2025 is a developer keynote that will take place on Thursday, September 18, at 10:00 a.m. PST/1:00 p.m. EST. Developers, media, and industry analysts were invited to attend the event in person. Quest users were able to experience the keynote in virtual reality inside Horizon Worlds. Obviously, the show is over, but you can still watch a VOD (or video on demand) of the keynote on Meta's official Connect website, Facebook Live, and YouTube.ZDNET reported live from the event, and here were the newest updates.
Every product announced at Meta Connect 2025Meta Ray-Ban Display: A new version of the popular smart glasses features a waveguide display that projects helpful context, including translations, navigation paths, and more. The glasses also work in tandem with an sEMG wristband to support gesture controls.Meta Ray-Ban 2: Not to be mistaken for the Display model, the second generation of Meta Ray-Bans shares a similar design and functionality as its predecessor, but with greater battery life and higher-resolution video recording.Meta Oakley Vanguard: Based on the popular sports glasses, Meta is extending its partnership with Oakley by releasing a new Sphaera-based model for serious athletes. The glasses feature a centered camera, a curved lens design, and syncing with Garmin smartwatches.Horizon Engine and Studio: The company is expanding its metaverse endeavors by allowing users to develop new worlds and platforms via generative AI.Latest updates (refresh for changes)
My first takeaways after testing the Ray-Ban Display
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
By Jason Hiner, Editor in Chief / Sept. 18 at 11:20 a.m. ETMeta officially unveiled its Ray-Ban Display glasses, and I got to try them out for a good hour this week. With full color displays and a neural interface, these are the most advanced smart glasses available for consumers to buy -- for now. Some of the coolest things they can do include:See a preview of photos and videos before taking themVideo call your friends to let them see what you see Visual info from AI searches to give you step-by-step instructions for things such as recipesTurn-by-turn walking directions (in select cities) Live captions during conversations (like turning on subtitles on your TV)Live AI to help take notes of important conversations so that you don't miss key detailsStay tuned for more coverage on the Ray-Ban Display on ZDNET.
Show more
Meta TV will be a hub for streaming services like Netflix
By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:44 p.m. ETMeta will roll out Meta TV, a central hub that combines multiple streaming services, from Netflix to Disney+, into a single space. It will support Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision, ensuring a high-quality visual and auditory experience.
Show more
Meta unveils Horizon Studio, for creating virtual worlds with generative AI
By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:43 p.m. ETMeta Horizon Engine, a new proprietary graphical engine optimized for generative creation, will power Horizon Studio and enable a more immersive and interactive metaverse.Meta has announced Meta Horizon Studio, a generative AI playground that'll allow users to create miniature virtual worlds via verbal prompts. Examples include a UFC octagon ring, a virtual home, and an underwater seascape.By Sabrina Ortiz, Senior Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:40 p.m. ETAnd that's it for the glasses. Now, we are moving on to AI in the virtual world. This is kicking off Meta Horizon Studio. This is meant to let creators generate whole worlds from simple prompts.
Show more
Meta Ray-Ban Display pricing and availability
By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:37 p.m. ETThe Meta Ray-Ban Display will launch on Sept. 30 for $799, and in-store locations will provide live demos. They will be available in two colors: Black and Sand (dark brown). The devices will also have transition lenses, turning them into smart sunglasses.
Show more
Meta's smartglasses and AI
By Sabrina Ortiz, Senior Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:35 p.m. ETIt wouldn't be an AI-focused event if  "agentic AI" weren't mentioned. In this example, Meta AI shows suggestions in-lens using the context of your conversations. These actions include adding items to your calendar or even just searching for results.By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:34 p.m. ETLive AI on the Meta Ray-Ban Display will have limited usage at launch. But over the next several months, Live AI can expand its set of features, and among these, it will be able to deliver a live feed of contextually important information.
Show more
Zuckerberg introduces Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses with a Neural Band
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
By Sabrina Ortiz, Senior Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:30 p.m. ETIn a live demo of the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, Zuckerberg went beyond messaging. He tried answering video calls using the Neural Band. However, there were technical difficulties that caused this demo to fail. That's show biz! A more successful attempt was raising the volume on Spotify by simply making the motion of turning up a volume nob. By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:28 p.m. ETThe Meta Neural Band is, as the name suggests, a wristband that lets users control the digital display using simple hand gestures. In a live demo, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg used the Neural Band to write and send texts. He mimicked the motion of writing with a pen to type out a text.By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:27 p.m. ETMeta also announced its third set of smart glasses at Connect 2025, the Meta Ray-Ban Display, and its accompanying accessory, the Meta Neural Band. The wearables project a digital display over the right eye that reportedly runs at a high resolution and 5,000 nits of brightness.
Show more
Meet the new Meta Oakley Vanguards
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
By Sabrina Ortiz, Senior Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:24 p.m. ETThe Meta Oakley Vanguards have an integration with Strava, which allows you to hear about your stats as you run. Given the intended audience of athletes and runners, this seems like a feature people will find useful.By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:22 p.m. ETIn collaboration with sunglasses brand Oakley, Meta will soon release a new sports-focused pair of smart glasses called the Meta Oakley Vanguard. This wearable houses a 12MP camera in the center of its frame for recording 3K video, plus support for Meta's AI assistant and a water resistance rating of IP67. Prices start at $499 and ship on Oct. 21.
Show more
Second-generation Ray-Ban updates and pricing
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
By Cesar Cadenas, Writer / Sept. 17 at 8:19 p.m. ETMeta has announced its second-generation Ray-Ban smartglasses. This model has the same lightweight design as before, but it now comes with a longer battery life (up to 8 hours of constant streaming), support for 3K video recording, and new color options like transparent blue. Prices start at $379.
Show more
Turn up the volume on your conversations
By Sabrina Ortiz, Senior Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:15 p.m. ETIf you, like me, already dropped a whole lot of money on the first generation of Meta Ray-Bans, there's good news for you. A new Audio Boost feature is coming to older models via a software update. What it does is amplify conversations you are having in real life to also help you as you navigate the real world.
Show more
New Meta Ray-Bans get a battery boost
By Sabrina Ortiz, Senior Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:12 p.m. ETI have worn the Meta Ray-Bans for almost a year and my biggest complaint was not being able to make it through the day. Zuckerberg just announced the next generation will have double the battery, which will finally make it last a whole day of use. Huge win!
Show more
The keynote will begin in 3...2...1
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
By Kerry Wan, Managing Editor / Sept. 17 at 8:59 p.m. ETWe're seated and ready for the keynote. Please give me live demoes!
Show more
The skateboard ramps are out
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
By Kerry Wan, Managing Editor / Sept. 17 at 4:37 p.m. ETThere's a lot happening within the confines of Meta HQ today, much of which we can't talk about just yet, but I can share this massive skateboard ramp.It's safe to say that Meta is continuing to target athletes and sports fans with its smart glasses, pitching the wearables as a hands-free alternative to more traditioanl action cameras.
Show more
Gesture controls are the future, or maybe emojis
By Kerry Wan, Managing Editor / Sept. 17 at 3:46 p.m. ETAhead of Meta Connect, CEO Mark Zuckerberg hinted on Threads that today's announcements will include various finger emojis, from writing with a stylus to making finger hearts.In other words, the neural wristband that's been teased for almost a year may finally come to market. It would allow users to operate their smart glasses and headsets with pinches, swipes, and taps. The question is how fluid and reliable at tracking the accessory is.Here's to hoping for a live demonstration during this afternoon's keynote.
Show more
ZDNET is on the ground for Meta Connect!
By Kerry Wan, Managing Editor / Sept. 17 at 2:50 p.m. ETZDNET's Jason Hiner and I are officially on the ground for Meta Connect. Lots of excitement in the air, Meta signage, and people wearing Ray-Bans. Stay tuned for more.
Show more
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Meta Ray-Ban Display
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
Arguably, the most important announcement at Connect 2025 was the reveal of the Meta Ray Ban Display. These are a new version of the smart glasses that project a small readout screen over your right eye.Before the event, various rumors claimed the wearables would "feature a monocular HUD that projects navigation pathways [via a map app], translations, messages, and exchange with the Meta AI assistant." The model would have a significantly bulkier design, mainly around the corners, to account for all the extra tech needed to support said digital displays. It seems those claims were right on the money. However, there is still plenty about the Ray Ban Display that we don't know. Those same rumors also stated that text boxes, maps, and the like seemingly stay static. They won't latch onto objects in front of you like an AR (augmented reality) headset would.Much about the smart glasses remains in the dark, but I'm sure we'll find out sooner or later.
Show more
How expensive will the new Meta smart glasses be?
Meta
Initial reports and rumors claimed that Meta's future wearable would be expensive. The Ray Ban Display, in particular, was said to cost $1,400. While these are pricey devices, none of the models are anywhere near $1,400.The Meta Ray Ban Display will launch on September 30 and retail for $799. It'll be available in two colors: Black and Sand. Each purchase will include a free Meta Neural Band.Meta's Oakley Vanguard will cost $499 starting, with units shipping on October 21.The second-generation Ray Ban smartglasses are currently on sale and cost $379 a pair.
Show more
Meta Neural Band
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET
Initial reports mentioned that Meta would "begin offering a so-called neural wristband [codenamed Ceres] for the first time." It appears that this device was the Meta Neural Band shown off at Connect 2025. This is an accompanying accessory to the Meta Ray Band Display that converts electrical signals from wrist muscles into gesture controls. For example, rotating your hands will let you scroll through apps, and a finger pinch will allow users to select specific items.The presentation for the Neural Band was short. There's still much we don't know. Those early reports said the band would have a haptic engine delivering tactile feedback to the user. Meta's product page for the Ray Ban Display doesn't say much about the accessory, focusing primarily on the wearable.
Show more
A gaming VR headset made with Asus?
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Once again, rumors claimed that Meta might have unveiled the Asus ROG Tarius, a VR headset that will be the first third-party device to run on Horizon OS, on Wednesday. Meta opened its operating system to third-party companies in April 2024. But the Tarius was a no-show. It didn't make a single appearance at Connect 2025, and it didn't even get a mention or hint. Perhaps the Tarius needs more time in the oven. Considering that it'll be under the Asus ROG umbrella, Tarius is likely to be a gaming-centric device. Much of the information that we currently have comes from a single leak that surfaced in January of this year. Also: I tried smart glasses with a built-in display, and they beat my Meta Ray-Bans in key waysIt claims Tarius will support both eye and face tracking. The screen inside the visor will either be micro-OLED or QD-LED with local dimming. Assuming this is all true, the QD-LED screens could be used to achieve high amounts of contrast.That's pretty much all we know. No word on what it'll look like or what kinds of games it'll support. We don't even know what chipset it'll run. Could it eschew more towards the Meta Quest 3 and deliver a top-notch performance, or will it be like the Quest 3S and be less powerful in favor of having a lower price tag? It's hard to say at the moment.
Show more
Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I used the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they offer 2 breakthroughs to take us beyond smartphones
5 Meta Ray-Ban upgrades that have me truly hyped for September 17
Meta wears Prada? Why its next-gen AR glasses might out-style the Ray-Bans
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use