Late-Night Chaos: Jimmy Kimmel Suspension Spreads Fear for Other Shows - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension spreads fear through late-night TV about more targets
By
Lucia Moses
WGA members rally to support Jimmy Kimmel outside Disney's ABC offices in New York.
Business Insider
2025-09-19T19:26:31Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension has spread fear and anger through the late-night world.
Industry insiders worry Trump could come after NBC's Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers next.
Hollywood writers denounced Trump and Disney at rallies in LA and NY.
After Disney's ABC pulled Jimmy Kimmel, fear and anger are rippling through the late-night world as many wonder where the ax could fall next.
"When they came for Colbert, they cloaked it in 'he didn't make enough money,' but with Kimmel, they just brazenly did it," Kurt Braunohler, a comedian who's been a writer on "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon," posted on Instagram.Kimmel is the second late-night host, after CBS's Stephen Colbert, to be yanked following pressure from President Donald Trump. CBS said the cancellation was "purely a financial decision," and Reuters reported that Colbert was losing roughly $40 million a year.
"There's a sense of alarm," a former Jimmy Fallon staffer told Business Insider. "Among my friends, there's a really practical feeling of, there's no jobs left, and people are freaking out about that.""I'm enraged," a third veteran of the late-night shows said of Kimmel's suspension. "It's a scary time in late-night now. Nobody knows what's next."After Kimmel's suspension, Trump went on to urge Comcast's NBCUniversal to cancel its late-night hosts, NBC's Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers.
"The message to those NBC shows is, if you don't fall in line, we're going to do the same thing to you," comedy writer Adam Conover said. "Imagine being Seth Meyers right now. His work is more political than Jimmy Fallon's."A rep for the shows didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Jimmy Fallon took jabs at Trump on Thursday's show.
NBC/ Getty Images
Both hosts addressed the situation on their shows on Thursday, standing up for Kimmel and promising not to change their approach. Meyers, who has regularly mocked Trump, focused on free speech on his show, "Late Night with Seth Meyers." Fallon, who's less political and more mainstream, took jabs at Trump's UK trip, with a mock censor partially obscuring his jokes.
It's a nervous time. The economy of late-night TV was fragile before Trump's attacks. People are shifting more of their entertainment viewing to streaming services and are increasingly likely to watch late-night clips on YouTube the next day rather than live, undermining broadcasters' audience and ad revenue. Streamers have largely been unable to replicate late-night appointment viewing on their services. Comedy podcasts have flourished on open platforms, but can't replace the scale of a late-night network TV show staff.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"Late night won't have a future," said Brandon Burkhart, a recent Fallon writer who now has a comedy podcast. "It's going to be a major contraction in the next few years until streaming figures out how to do late night. A lot of crew and writers will be out of work."The Writers Guild of America West, the union representing Hollywood writers, organized rallies outside Disney offices in Los Angeles and New York to demand that Kimmel be brought back. Meredith Stiehm, president of the WGA West, said around 200 people showed up in LA. Anger was directed as much at their corporate leaders as the White House.
"It started with Colbert, but the Kimmel news crossed a line for everybody," Stiehm said. "We'd like them to put Jimmy Kimmel back on the air and put his workers back to work. It's not just his writers but all the people who work on the show who are being punished for exercising their free expression."People held signs at the New York rally denouncing Trump and Disney and chanted, "Bring Jimmy back."One attendee, Natasha Vaynblat, a former "Tonight Show" writer, said she was motivated by her parents' immigration from Russia and hoped the gathering would encourage others to speak out.
"I'm worried we're turning into an authoritarian regime," she said.Some see the Kimmel situation as a symptom of media consolidation that has created the need for government approval while reducing competition."It shows why media mergers are so bad — when you have all these companies under one roof, the more they depend on political largesse," Conover said.
Recommended video
Comcast
Disney
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account