How to get over someone : Life Kit : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
How to get over someone : Life Kit Breakups come in all shapes and sizes — slow dissolves, out-of-nowhere endings — and maybe you even initiated the breakup. But they all have a few things in common. Mainly, they can hurt. These six tips can help you move forward after a breakup.
Life Kit
Tools To Help You Get It Together
Health
Money
Parenting
Dear Life Kit
Life Skills
Podcast
Newsletter
Twitter
NPR
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
How to turn your breakup into a new beginning
February 10, 202212:03 AM ET
By
Andrew Limbong
,
Clare Marie Schneider
How to turn your breakup into a new beginning
Listen
·
21:01
21:01
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1079532260/1197917567" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Enlarge this image
Photo illustration by Becky Harlan/NPR
Photo illustration by Becky Harlan/NPR
Amy Chan remembers the breakup vividly. When she found out her partner was cheating on her, she immediately fell to the floor. After the split, she spiraled. She lost more than just her partner. She lost the future she'd planned out — the house, the kids, the fairy-tale, happily-ever-after stuff. "I put so much of my identity in him, and us and our future plan, that without that, I didn't know who I was," says Chan.
Things got rough. The breakup led to years of depression and anxiety. Friends had to come by to make sure she was eating enough.
Sponsor Message
She's doing much better now. She got over her split and used the lessons she learned to start Renew Breakup Bootcamp — a retreat for the brokenhearted to go and learn from relationship experts. She has written a book, Breakup Bootcamp: The Science of Rewiring Your Heart. She's one of a few experts whom we asked to talk about how to recover, heal and move on from a breakup.
Now, breakups come in all shapes and sizes — slow dissolves, out-of-nowhere endings — and maybe you initiated the breakup. But they all have a few things in common. Mainly, they can all hurt. And recognizing that is the first step in getting better.
Breakups hurt. Give them the respect they deserve
When we're with our loved ones and we are happy and warm, our brains light up in the basic reward-related regions. "The same kind of regions that activate when you eat a piece of chocolate or win an amount of money," says Naomi Eisenberger, a psychology professor specializing in social neuroscience at UCLA.
On the flip side, when we feel rejected, the regions of the brain that process physical pain activate. She says there's something truly painful about social rejection.
And pain from a breakup hits us at a place that's at the core of our being. That's according to Orna Guralnik, a clinical psychologist, a psychoanalyst and the center of the Showtime documentary series Couples Therapy.
Life Kit
An illustrated guide to showing up for yourself
"I recommend people remember that a breakup is, first of all, worthy of their self-care, of paying attention to their feelings and not expecting themselves to get over a breakup as if it's nothing," she says.
Chan likens it to a mourning process. As she was still hurt from her breakup, she says her well-meaning friends would run out of patience and eventually tell her to buck up, to get over it. Not super-helpful. "It is perfectly OK for you to feel a range of emotions. And because you feel those emotions, it doesn't mean something is wrong with you" she says.
Sponsor Message
Like any mourning process, it'll take some time and work.
Resist the urge to use booze or drugs as a crutch
When you're inebriated, the part of your brain that is rational, logical and forward thinking (i.e., all the tools you'll need to get over a breakup) starts to turn off. We all know this (and yet!). Chan says that substances can amplify our feelings of sadness and anger in a way that leads people to make decisions they regret.
Basically, they'll rid you of the clarity you'll need for this next takeaway. Face reality and actually be broken up
Enlarge this image
Photo illustration by Becky Harlan/NPR
Photo illustration by Becky Harlan/NPR
This is harder than it sounds.
After a breakup, Chan says your body is in a state of shock. So even if you know a relationship is over, your body will still be in constant search of those "love hormones" you'd normally get from your ex. And this is a wound you pick at when you take a stroll down memory lane looking at your old texts or stalking your ex on social media. In fact, unless you share something (pet, child, car, etc.), she says there's no real good reason to contact your ex.
Yes, even if you're looking for "closure." This is something Chan's clients often say they're in need of, but she says they're looking for the wrong thing. "It's not actually a closure. It's a relief from pain that they're looking for," she says. And there's nothing an ex can do or say that'll offer relief because the thing that's causing the pain isn't the ex — it's the separation. "If you're still blaming your ex, analyzing your ex, hoping for your ex to change, you're still in a relationship with your ex," she says.
Our experts suggest avoiding the common pitfalls of villainizing your ex or putting your ex on a pedestal. Neither is really rooted in reality — and both keep you from focusing on yourself and moving forward.
Sponsor Message
Use the breakup as an opportunity for self-reflection The moments after a breakup can be, in some ways, an exciting time to learn more about yourself. One of the exercises Chan uses with her clients is having them write down their breakup story as if they were telling it to a friend. Then she looks over the stories and teaches clients to spot what she calls "thinking traps" — generalizing, black-and-white thinking, being caught up in "shoulds." Once those are recognized, she has clients rewrite their story with just the facts. This helps them get to a more honest understanding of the relationship.
Life Kit
Stop being so mean to yourself. Here are 5 tips to help you break the cycle
And sometimes it's helpful to dig even further, examining past relationships (and not just romantic ones). "While we dig deeper, we realize that sometimes ... it's not specifically this last ex, but it was the sense of abandonment that they have felt over and over again in their life," says Chan.
As you're looking back and reexamining, Guralnik says to be careful to differentiate between thoughts that you can learn from and thoughts that are rooted in shame. If you're looking back and finding actions you can change ("I was too controlling" or "I was being too self-absorbed"), that can be helpful. But once you start defining yourself by these actions ("I'm a loser," "I'm unlovable," etc.), then you're in shame-based territory. Recognize when you're "stuck" Everyone gets over each breakup at their own pace. Guralnik finds attempts to prescribe how long processing a breakup should take somewhat arbitrary. "People differ in how they attach, and they differ in how they mourn their attachments," she says.
She has worked with people in her practice who take years to get over a breakup, to come out on the other side having gone through a "very honest, deep process of mourning." Others get through it a little quicker.
Sponsor Message
Chan spent two years after her breakup villainizing and pathologizing until a friend finally asked her if that story was serving her in any way. It was the question she needed in order to finally think about the relationship honestly — remembering the good and the bad — and begin the process of moving on.
But how do you know if you're just taking your time to process or if you're stuck? Guralnik says to be alert for repetition. "If you're having the same series of thoughts, the same emotional experience week after week, and nothing is developing, nothing is changing, then something is off," she says. If you're caught in a cycle, know that it's natural. Chan says what tends to happen is we feel a primary emotion (say, sadness) and then feel shame about that emotion because we don't think we should be feeling that way. Then we start feeding that emotion with our thoughts and ruminations. Sometimes we don't do ourselves any favors and really lean into it. During the bad times, she'd play Coldplay's "Fix You" on repeat while in the fetal position.
Life Kit
Having a hobby is good for you. Here's how to find one
In those cases, you want to try to do the opposite. Stand up tall with your shoulders back. Put something less wallow-y on the playlist. Sometimes literally just shaking your body will help you reset your mind away from unhelpful ruminations. Eisenberger says that getting some exercise and spending time with loved ones help our bodies naturally produce pain-easing opioids.
You can also use the energy you'd otherwise spend on ruminating on your ex and instead focus on a new hobby or reinvest in a passion you've been meaning to spend more time on. Essentially, fill up your life and eventually you'll be ready to ... Start dating again, if you feel ready There's no hard and fast marker to tell if you're ready to go out and date. Our experts agree, though, to make sure you're dating because you feel like you are genuinely interested in meeting new people, and not as a way of distracting yourself from your breakup.
Culture
The key to flirting? It's not about you
"The only way to tell is to actually do it," says Chan. "And if you go and you're absolutely destroyed and it takes you back to what you think is square one, then OK." That's fine! Take the time to rest easy and try again later. And if you do go and the experience goes a little better, then keep trying. This doesn't mean you're not still nursing some wounds from the breakup. You might still even miss your ex. But the moment might be right when you stop "being completely consumed and preoccupied with trying to understand what happened," says Guralnik. Either way, know that you do have the tools to recover from heartbreak.
Sponsor Message
The podcast portion of this story was produced by Clare Marie Schneider. We'd love to hear from you. If you have a good life hack, leave us a voicemail at 202-216-9823 or email us at LifeKit@npr.org. Your tip could appear in an upcoming episode. If you love Life Kit and want more, subscribe to our newsletter.
top stories
Life Kit: Life Skills
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor