Hostinger Review: Website Creation Made Easy - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Web Hosting
Hostinger Review: Website Creation Made Easy
Hostinger has quickly become a major player in the web hosting industry, but is it any good? I found out in this hands-on review.
Article updated on July 19, 2025 at 11:41 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Dianna Gunn
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time. Expertise Web Hosting, Online Business Management
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.4/ 10
SCORE Hostinger
Buy at Hostinger
Pros
Remarkably easy to use
Includes LiteSpeed caching plugin
Good server performance
Affordable plans jam-packed with features
Cons
Customer service is only available via live chat
Live chat service is primarily chatbot-run; speaking to a person can be difficult
Table of Contents
Hostinger Review: Website Creation Made Easy
Hostinger plans and pricing
Hostinger ease of use: Website creation has never been simpler
Hostinger performance: Reliable and fast
Hostinger security
Hostinger customer service: Mediocrity in action
Hostinger value: Ideal for low-budget projects
Hostinger: Is it worth it?
Hostinger review FAQs
2025
Editor's note: Hostinger provides a site assistant to simplify WordPress setup, excellent server performance and robust security features, including automated backups on all plans. Hostinger also offers a website builder for those who don’t want to learn or use WordPress. Both WordPress hosting and website builder hosting are available for highly affordable prices, with lower renewal rates than comparable plans from other web hosts. These benefits earned Hostinger a CNET Editors’ Choice Award as the best value web host.Hostinger is a fast-growing website that recently landed on the official list of WordPress.org recommended hosts. I’d spent a little bit of time fiddling with Hostinger tools before, and I wanted to build a deeper understanding of how -- and how well -- they work.To accomplish this, I purchased a Hostinger plan and tested the site creation tools for ease of use. I then hosted a test site for one week, using uptime monitoring and speed tests to determine server performance. Finally, I tested the customer service by reading the knowledge base and reaching out via live chat. You can learn more about the full process of how we test web hosting services here.Overall, I was impressed by the value Hostinger packed into its relatively low-cost services. It delivers excellent site creation and management tools, exceptional server performance and impressive security features. The only drawback is the mediocre customer service. This makes Hostinger a great choice for simple sites, especially hobby sites and blogs, but can make it a poor choice for business sites or complex sites that may require a lot of support.Hostinger plans and pricingHostinger offers several types of web hosting:Shared hostingManaged WordPress hostingManaged WooCommerce hostingWebsite builder hosting (regular)Website builder hosting (e-commerce)Cloud hostingVPS hostingHere’s a quick breakdown of the Hostinger plans for each of these hosting types:
Hosting type Best forPriceShared hosting Hobby sites, blogs and small business websites using a CMS other than WordPressStarts at $3 to $8 a month, renews at $11 to $26 a monthManaged WordPress hosting Hobby sites, blogs and small business websites built with WordPressStarts at $3 to $8 a month, renews at $11 to $26 a monthManaged WooCommerce hosting E-commerce sites built with WordPress + WooCommerceStarts at $4 to $7 a month, renews at $14 to $26 a monthWebsite builder hosting Users who want to create a hobby site, blog or small business website without learning/maintaining new softwareStarts at $3 to $4 a month, renews at $11 to $14 a monthCloud hosting Sites with very international audiences or teamsStarts at $8 to $30 a month, renews at $26 to $65 a monthVPS hosting Sites that expect 400,000+ monthly visitors or require server customizationStarts at $5 to $20 a month, renews at $10 to $50 a month
Next, let’s take a closer look at Hostinger’s plans.Shared hostingShared hosting divides the bandwidth, processing power and storage of a web server -- a specialized computer built for hosting websites -- between many websites. Each website gets a predetermined percentage of these resources, limiting the number of pages your site can store and the monthly visitors it can accommodate. Shared hosting is typically good for small-to-medium websites with 1,000 to 2,000 pages and 10,000 to 400,000 monthly visitors.Shared hosting is also great for first-time website owners with a low budget, as the server’s configured for you and the cost is quite low, often $3 to $5 a month to start and $10 to $20 per month on renewal.Hostinger’s shared hosting plans are particularly generous, including:Hosting for at least 25 websitesUnlimited bandwidthFree domain for the first yearFree site migration for all of your sitesSecure socket layer -- SSL -- for all of your sitesEmail hostingWeekly backupsWordPress auto-updatesWordPress vulnerabilities scannerLiteSpeed-enhanced serversHostinger website builder with 150 site templatesComprehensive security: firewall, distributed denial of service -- DDoS -- protection, malware scanning and domain privacyThere are also some key differences, primarily in storage and the number of monthly visitors each plan can accommodate:
Plan StorageAdditional featuresPricePremium 25GB (at least 250 pages) across up to 25 websitesStarter WooCommerce support$3 a month for the first term, $11 a month on renewalBusiness 50GB (at least 500 pages) across up to 50 websitesWordPress AI tools and Basic WooCommerce support, website builder AI and e-commerce tools, free CDN, on-demand backups$4 a month for the first term, $14 a month on renewalCloud Startup 100GB (at least 1,000 pages) across up to 100 websitesDedicated IP address, priority support, Standard WooCommerce support$8 a month for the first term, $26 a month on renewal
All prices are based on a four-year term. Your per-month price will increase if you choose a shorter contract length.Managed WordPress hostingWordPress is a popular content management system, or CMS, for creating, organizing and maintaining blog posts and web pages without needing code. According to W3Techs, 43.4% of all websites use WordPress, and developers have created almost 60,000 plugins that make it possible to accomplish almost anything you can imagine with WordPress. This has led many web hosts to create WordPress-specific plans that include things like auto-updates to the CMS.Hostinger offers three managed WordPress plans with the same prices and many of the same features as the shared hosting plans. The only difference is that you won't get the website builder. For most users, this means you'll have the same experience with either regular shared hosting or WordPress hosting. However, if you want to create multiple websites and might want to use the website builder for one of them, you'll want to stick with regular shared hosting.Managed WooCommerce hostingWooCommerce is a popular e-commerce plugin for WordPress that makes it easy to build an online store, with dozens of extensions for things like subscription services and paid communities. Hostinger offers three managed WooCommerce plugins with one-click WooCommerce setup and a variety of third-party integrations.The lowest-tier managed WooCommerce hosting plan, Business, starts at $4 a month (renewing at $14 a month) with a four-year contract. The Business plan includes one-click WooCommerce setup, free store migration, limited third-party WooCommerce integrations and a free Amazon affiliate plugin. You’ll also get enough bandwidth for 100,000 monthly visitors and enough storage for at least 500 pages.The highest-tier managed WooCommerce hosting plan, Cloud Startup, starts at $8 a month (renews at $26 a month) with a four-year contract. Cloud Startup includes everything from the Business plan, plus priority customer support. Cloud Startup sites receive enough storage for at least 1,000 pages and enough bandwidth for 200,000 monthly visits.Website builder hostingA website builder is a visual tool for building a website without code. Website builders are typically proprietary, meaning they’re owned by individual hosting companies, so the company handles things like software updates and maintenance, leaving you to focus on the more creative side of things. Hostinger offers a particularly robust website builder tool, complete with an AI site builder that creates a site for you in seconds based on basic information about the purpose of your site and its brand.Most Hostinger plans include access to the Hostinger website builder, but you can access a more tailored hosting experience with the website builder plans. There's one website builder plan for non-e-commerce sites, with a starting price of $3 per month (renews at $11 a month). This plan offers enough storage for at least 250 pages and unlimited bandwidth. You'll also get access to both the designer-made templates and the AI website builder, marketing integrations with third-party tools like Google Analytics and basic email marketing tools.Hostinger also offers a specialized plan for users who want to create an e-commerce store with the website builder. This plan starts at $4 a month ($14 a month on renewal) with a four-year contract for the website builder and all related AI content generation tools. You’ll also get the ability to build an online store with product pages, payment processing with no transaction fees and basic inventory management tools for 600 digital or physical products.VPS hostingVirtual private server, or VPS, hosting divides one physical server into several isolated virtual servers. Each server has dedicated resources, like processing power and bandwidth, typically allowing VPS sites to host more web pages and accommodate more visitors than sites on shared hosting. A VPS also gives you more server customization options, like the ability to choose security software for your VPS.Hostinger offers unmanaged VPS hosting, which means that you’ll be responsible for configuring and maintaining all digital aspects of your server. This includes installing software, making sure it’s up to date and monitoring/managing the security of your VPS.The most affordable VPS plan from Hostinger starts at $5 a month ($10 a month on renewal) with a two-year contract. This plan includes enough storage for at least 500 web pages and enough bandwidth to accommodate up to 4 million visitors, making it ideal for static business websites and blogs that are just starting out. E-commerce sites, with their numerous product pages and large image files, may require more storage. Long-running blogs with thousands of blog posts will also need more storage.The most expensive Hostinger VPS plan starts at $20 a month (renewing at $50 a month) with a two-year contract. This plan includes enough storage for at least 4,000 pages and enough bandwidth for 32 million monthly visitors.Hostinger ease of use: Website creation has never been simplerI started the hands-on portion of my Hostinger review by testing three key functions for ease of use: the purchase process, account management and website/server management.Purchase processThe Hostinger purchase process is pretty simple. Selecting a plan takes you to a page where you can view the details of the purchase and change your contract length from the four-year default. Renewal pricing is listed under the contract selection process, a nice change from sites like HostGator -- which lists renewal prices in tiny font -- or Hosting.com (formerly A2 Hosting) -- which hides renewal prices entirely. Prices update automatically if you change the contract length.
Screenshot/CNETNext, you’ll be asked to create an account. You can either create a unique account with your email address and a new password or log in with your Google account, then move on to the billing area.Hostinger accepts several payment methods including credit cards, PayPal and cryptocurrency. Most web hosts accept only credit cards, making this a notable feature.
Screenshot/CNETThe other notable thing about Hostinger’s purchase process is the complete lack of upsells. Where most hosts encourage you to buy add-ons -- and some, like HostGator, even pre-select add-ons for you -- Hostinger doesn’t even display other services for sale. For context, Hosting.com is the only other host I’ve worked with that didn’t have any upsells whatsoever.Account managementHostinger’s account management area is also easy to navigate. Your hosting package and domain are clearly listed in the center of the page, along with a box encouraging you to use Hostinger’s AI tools. The sidebar includes links to areas for essential tasks like website, domain and email management. You can even access billing management (a feature hidden in a drop-down menu by companies like HostGator) from this sidebar.
Screenshot/CNETWebsite and server managementHostinger offers a few options for website creation, including AI-powered tools that build a website for you -- using either WordPress or the Hostinger website builder -- based on information like your site’s name and purpose.I decided to build my site from scratch, clicking the Manage button next to my hosting package. This leads to a page with links to essential hosting features, like email setup, and an Auto-Install button for installing WordPress (or your preferred CMS) on your site.
Screenshot/CNETThe installation process takes only a few clicks and a couple of minutes for your server to set up your CMS. WordPress users are then greeted by a Hostinger site assistant that guides you through basic site-building tasks like adding a new page. There’s also a Learn tab with WordPress tutorials and a Tools tab displaying things like your site's current version of WordPress. This makes it much easier for first-time website owners and is outmatched only by the Hosting.com site assistant, which features direct links to more actions like editing your homepage.
Screenshot/CNETWordPress installs from Hostinger feature a Tools plugin that monitors your site health and the LiteSpeed caching plugin for improved site loading times.Server management is conducted through the hPanel, a proprietary system for managing your website(s), email, files and databases. The website management page I shared earlier is also part of the hPanel, so you can find everything in one place. The hPanel offers a clean, visually optimized interface that’s easy to navigate for even the most tech-averse beginners. hPanel tools are also comprehensive, letting you do everything from basic site monitoring to complex tasks like managing the DNS -- domain name system -- records that let you connect your site to Google Search Console.
Screenshot/CNETI found hPanel to be more user-friendly than the industry-standard cPanel or alternative proprietary tools like the Ionos server management system. There is a downside, however: most free website migration services can only move cPanel sites to a new host, so if you decide to switch hosts, you’ll need to transfer the site yourself. Figuring out how to do this may also be difficult, as most tutorials for manually transferring a site to a new host focus on using cPanel. You may also dislike hPanel if you’re used to cPanel and don’t want to learn a new system.OverallCreating a site with Hostinger is incredibly easy, from purchasing a plan to managing your server resources. In fact, it’s the most intuitive site creation process I’ve encountered with any web host, with no upsells during checkout, a simple yet comprehensive account dashboard and the equally uncomplicated Panel. This earns Hostinger a 10/10 ease of use ranking -- the highest ease of use ranking I’ve given any hosting company I've tested.Hostinger performance: Reliable and fastThere are two key metrics to consider when determining a web hosting company’s performance:Uptime: The percentage of time your site spends online and accessible to visitors. Uptime matters because there are thousands of sites competing in every niche, so users who can’t load one site will often leave for another site, resulting in lost traffic and possibly even lost money.Site speed: The number of seconds it takes your site to load. Browsers are used to instant connections and there’s a good chance they’ll leave your site if they can’t get one, making site speed one of the most important factors in a website’s success.I spent one week testing my Hostinger site to see how well it performed on both of these metrics. I also examined Hostinger’s performance tools to understand how the company helps its users optimize site speed.Performance toolsHostinger primarily improves site speed through caching, a protocol that stores static information, like a website’s layout. With caching, information is housed in a data storage layer programmed to run at the speed of either your web server’s CPU -- central processing unit -- or a visitor’s CPU. Data stored this way can be accessed much faster than data stored using the typical RAM, or random access memory.WordPress sites built with Hostinger come with the LiteSpeed caching plugin pre-installed. LiteSpeed offers multiple types of caching, image optimization and code minification, which is a protocol for reducing the size of JavaScript and HTML files to improve site speed. Users on higher-tier plans can access additional object caching tools for WordPress to further improve loading times.There’s also a Cache Manager in the Advanced area of hPanel. You can use this tool to enable automatic caching with a refresh rate of every 30 minutes, regardless of the CMS you’re using.
Screenshot/CNETHigher-tier users can also access a content delivery network, or CDN, that stores data in several networked servers around the globe. This ensures faster site speeds for international users, as pulling data from a server close to you is faster than pulling data from a server on the other side of the world.UptimeHostinger offers the industry-standard 99.9% uptime guarantee, promising that server issues won’t cause your site to go down for more than 10 minutes per week. I hooked my site up to BetterStack monitoring for one week to see how Hostinger lives up to this promise.My test site experienced no downtime during this week, suggesting that Hostinger manages its servers well enough to generally exceed its 99.9% uptime guarantee. This is similar to my experience with other top web hosts like SiteGround and Hosting.com, which both had 100% uptime during my test week.Site speedMany experts recommend that your site should load in under 3 seconds, as bounce rate, or the percentage of users who leave your site after viewing only one page, increases by 32% when loading time goes from 1 to 3 seconds.I spent five days testing my Hostinger site speed using WebPageTest, taking a few measures to maximize my tests’ resemblance of the average user experience:Testing at different times of day to see if Hostinger’s servers perform well both during and outside of standard business hours.Testing from different locations to estimate how international users would experience Hostinger site’s loading speed.Testing on both mobile and desktop to estimate how users on different devices experience sites on Hostinger servers.Using the built-in performance tools without modifying the built-in settings or adding extra performance tools.I came up with the following average site speeds based on these tests:
CaliforniaUKGermanyIndiaDubaiAustraliaMobile 2.622.512.753.333.123.5Desktop 1.411.431.4221.862.35
I then further condensed these numbers into the following averages:Average mobile site speed of 2.97 secondsAverage desktop site speed of 1.74 secondsOverall site speed of 2.34 secondsThis makes Hostinger the third fastest host of all the companies I’ve tested so far, falling only slightly behind GoDaddy’s 2.29 second average and more significantly behind Shopify's 1.71 second average. However, both of these hosts have other downfalls -- GoDaddy's security is terrible on most plans, while Shopify is too expensive to be practical for websites not focused on e-commerce.I was pleased with this result, especially since I only used the LiteSpeed settings that were automatically enabled on installation. You may be able to improve site speed by turning on additional LiteSpeed features, such as object cache and image compression.Overall performanceHostinger earns a performance ranking of 9/10 thanks to its spectacular uptime and good site speed. This is the best performance ranking of any host I've tested, though several companies -- including our top-ranking host, SiteGround -- come close.Hostinger securityHostinger offers users a few layers of security:Secure socket layer -- SSL -- certification: An encryption protocol that protects data sent to and from your site, such as contact information submitted through a form. SSL certification also signals that your site is safe. Some browsers and VPNs won’t even open a site without SSL certification. Google also penalizes sites without SSL certification, making it difficult for these sites to rank well.Firewall: Software that filters out malicious data attempting to infiltrate your site or its server, similar to how a Brita filter removes harmful particles from your water. Firewalls can’t protect against every threat, but they can keep most malicious software at bay.Distributed denial of service -- DDoS -- protection: Software that prevents malicious traffic from overwhelming your site/server and shutting it down.Malware scanner: Software that scans your site for any malware that gets through the firewall.Automated backups: Copies of your site stored on a different server, letting you quickly restore your site if it goes down. The lowest-tier plan includes weekly backups and higher-tier plans include daily backups.Secure Access Manager: Software that lets you add collaborators to your hosting plan and control what they can access within your hPanel.These security measures are similar to the security suites offered by top hosts like SiteGround and Hosting.com. They’re also more than you’ll get with HostGator or DreamHost, which offer only malware scanning through advanced hosting plans or add-ons. This leads to Hostinger earning a security ranking of 9/10.Hostinger customer service: Mediocrity in actionYour web host’s customer service should be available 24/7, with both a knowledge base (an area where you can find tutorials on how to set up and fix things yourself) and direct communication options through live chat, email and phone. I explored Hostinger’s self-serve resources, then reached out to customer service to test the speed and helpfulness of its support team.Hostinger knowledge base and tutorialsInstead of the usual knowledge base page with links to information in specific categories, like domain and website setup, the question mark in the top right corner of the hPanel takes you to a help page with three options:Search the knowledge base for specific assistanceAccess Hostinger’s tutorialsStart a live chat
Screenshot/CNETThis minimalistic approach provides users with the tools they need to seek help without being overwhelming like the InMotion Hosting knowledge base. However, I personally would prefer to have two or three buttons leading to the most commonly requested topics, like domains and WordPress setup -- especially since you can access an area just like this by clicking the Knowledge Base link at the bottom of the public-facing Hostinger site.
Screenshot/CNETSearching for a topic opens a new tab with links to relevant articles. I would prefer having the search results show up in the same tab, particularly since I’ve always got too many tabs open to begin with. But the search results themselves are clear and well-organized.
Screenshot/CNETThe articles themselves are clearly laid out, with step-by-step instructions accompanied by images to show you how to complete basic tasks. My one disappointment is the lack of video tutorials in this area, which could complicate things for users who prefer to learn through video. Most of these articles also focus on granular tasks, like installing WordPress, rather than the whole process of building a website.The Hostinger Tutorials area offers more complete walk-throughs for understanding things like how to build a WordPress site. You can either search these tutorials for something specific or scroll the Tutorials page if you want to establish a general understanding of website creation.
Screenshot/CNETThis area also includes several video tutorials on topics like how to create a blog with WordPress and how to build an e-commerce store. Hostinger offering these in-depth tutorials in both text and video provides great accessibility for anyone interested in learning about these topics.Direct communicationHostinger offers customer support only via live chat, a stark difference from the combination of live chat, email and phone support offered by other web hosts I’ve tested. While some of those hosts, like InMotion Hosting, limit phone service to higher-tier plans, Hostinger is the first company I’ve tested with no phone service at all. I tested Hostinger’s live chat by asking how to do a manual site backup and received step-by-step instructions within 5 minutes. However, the answers seemed like canned AI responses. AI responses aren’t inherently bad -- especially since the answers I received were helpful and comprehensive -- but I wanted to see if I could communicate with a real person. I typed “Speak to a real person” and was connected to an agent within 2 minutes.Unfortunately, that’s where my positive experience ended. I spent over half an hour waiting for the customer service representative to respond to my questions. This is the longest I’ve waited for any live chat service other than InMotion Hosting and Squarespace. In fact, I was about to close the conversation when a new customer service agent stepped in, sending step-by-step instructions for fixing the issue I mentioned.Overall customer serviceRanking Hostinger’s customer service is complicated. The knowledge base and tutorials provide comprehensive, step-by-step guidance for dealing with many simple web tasks. The live chat bot is trained well, providing instant answers to most simple questions -- often by sending links to the knowledge base or tutorials. However, even the best-trained bot can’t answer every question or fix every solution, and connecting with a human to answer my questions took longer than it should have.Averaging out the knowledge base and live chat rankings gives Hostinger’s customer service a 7.5/10 customer service ranking, but there’s another catch: the lack of phone or email support. While this isn’t a huge issue for many users -- a lot of us prefer live chat -- it is enough to drop Hostinger’s customer service ranking to 5/10.Unfortunately, poor customer service is common among web hosts. DreamHost earned a 3/10 due to its inaccessible live chat and phone service. HostGator earned 6/10 by failing to respond to email requests or follow through on scheduled calls. You can still find good customer service though -- I had wonderful experiences with both SiteGround and Ionos.ReputationMy experience with Hostinger is only one experience, so I read numerous other Hostinger reviews to get a more well-rounded view of the Hostinger experience. I found over 48,000 Trustpilot reviews for Hostinger with an overall rating of 4.7 out of five stars. However, there are over 3,000 one-star reviews, many of them citing a lack of customer service. Some Trustpilot reviews also cite more serious issues, such as users being charged after they turned off auto-renew and websites being suspended with no warning or explanation.Overall, it seems like the majority of Hostinger customers have a positive experience, but I’m far from the only one who’s experienced poor customer support, and some folks have experienced far worse issues.Hostinger value: Ideal for low-budget projectsThe next thing to consider is how Hostinger’s offerings compare with what you can get from other web hosts.Here’s a quick look at what three of those hosts -- specifically our two other top-ranking web hosts and GoDaddy, the most popular web host -- offer on their basic shared hosting plans:
Host PlanFeaturesPriceAdditional notesSiteGround Startup10GB storage, guided WordPress install and site assistant, 10,000 monthly visitors, free SSL certification, free domain for first year, firewall with DDoS protectionStarts at $3 a month, renews at $18 a month (based on one-year term)Customer service is poor for advanced queries and issues, performance is mediocre, no phone support on lowest-tier planGoDaddy Web Hosting Economy25GB storage, free domain for first year, free SSL for first year, site migration, automated daily backupsStarts at $6 a month, renews at $10 a month (based on three-year term)Lacks key security protocols, lots of additional fees and upsellsHosting.com Starter15GB storage, free SSL certificate, unlimited email accounts, free site migration, WordPress auto-install, WordPress auto-updates, security tools suiteStarts at $2 a month, renews at $12 a month (based on one-year term)Phone customer service can be slow
There are a few conclusions we can draw based on this information:Hostinger offers average introductory prices. The $3 a month introductory rate for Hostinger’s lowest-tier plan is higher than the $2 a month for Hosting.com, equal to the $3 a month for SiteGround and lower than the $6 per month from GoDaddy.Introductory contracts at Hostinger are longer than normal. Hostinger requires a four-year contract to get the best prices for its shared and WordPress hosting plan, a full year longer than the three years expected from GoDaddy and three years longer than the one year expected by Hosting.com or SiteGround.Hostinger’s renewal prices are average. At $11 a month on renewal, Hostinger’s basic plan is only slightly more cost effective than Hosting.com or GoDaddy's renewal prices. However, it's much more affordable than SiteGround's $18 a month, which is notable since Hostinger provides many similar features.Hostinger offers great storage. The 25GB -- enough for at least 250 pages -- of storage on the lowest-tier Hostinger plan is higher than the base storage offered by SiteGround, GoDaddy or Hosting.com. This is an especially important consideration for e-commerce sites, as product pages and pictures require extensive storage.Hostinger offers great WordPress features. Hostinger's site assistant, specialized WordPress vulnerabilities scanner, LiteSpeed-enhanced servers and auto-updates for the CMS put it on almost-equal footing with SiteGround, which only comes out ahead due to its proprietary plugins for enhancing site speed and security. These features also put Hostinger solidly ahead of Hosting.com and GoDaddy.Hostinger offers great security tools. Hostinger offers both the standard protections (SSL certification, firewall protection and DDoS protection) and additional tools like malware scanning and weekly backups. These protocols are similar to what you'll get from other top-ranking web hosts like SiteGround and Hosting.com.Based on all of this, I give Hostinger a 9/10 for value. The only drawback is that you’ll have to sign up for a full four years to get the best discount, resulting in a higher initial fee. However, the long-term savings -- including those netted from the lower renewal pricing -- more than makesHostinger: Is it worth it?Let’s take a look at how well Hostinger performed so that you can decide if this is the right web hosting company for your needs and budget:Ease of use: 10/10Performance: 9/10Security: 9/10Customer service: 5/10Value: 9/10Averaging out these scores gives Hostinger an overall ranking of 8.4/10. This puts Hostinger just slightly behind our top-ranking host, SiteGround. Factoring in the relatively low renewal prices, this earns Hostinger our Editor's Choice award for Best Value Web Host of 2025, making it a great choice if you’re looking for shared or WordPress hosting and you’re comfortable using live chat for all of your customer service needs.Hostinger review FAQs
Is Hostinger reputable?
Hostinger is generally considered to be a reputable hosting service. However, there are some extremely negative reviews on Trustpilot, so your experience may vary.
Show more
What are the cons of Hostinger?
The main con of Hostinger is the lack of email or phone support. Speaking to a human via live chat can also take an unusually long time.
Show more
Is Hostinger better than GoDaddy?
Hostinger is better than GoDaddy in key areas like the user interface and affordable pricing. However, GoDaddy provides better customer support.
Show more
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
DIANNA GUNN
Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.