Using the wrong monitor is killing your productivity - here's how I pick the right one | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Using the wrong monitor is killing your productivity - here's how I pick the right one
Choosing the right monitor doesn't have to be overwhelming. I break down the most important factors to consider to help you find the right one for your needs.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 12:35 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Kyle Kucharski
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysShopping for a new computer monitor can be overwhelming with all the metrics and jargon.To cut through the confusion, I recommended focusing on three features: size, panel type, and refresh rate.I'll provide several monitor recommendations for both Windows and macOS machines.So you just bought your perfect laptop or desktop, and you want a new monitor to go along with it. What do you choose? If you've started shopping, you likely already noticed an overwhelming amount of options. Some promise dazzling color with HDR, others emphasize high refresh rates, and then there are the ultra-wide curved screens.
Also: MSI's new $999 gaming laptop beats the Razer Blade 14 in a few ways (with one concern)It can be information overload. Fortunately, I'm here to help out. This guide will break down the main factors to consider, rounded out with a few recommendations to point you in the right direction, including my current favorite monitor.The three most important factors to consider are:Size/resolutionPanel type Refresh rateLet's break them down. 1. Size and resolution
LG UltraGear curved monitor Kerry Wan/ZDNETI consider a monitor's size to be its most crucial aspect, as it sets the stage for every other feature. A big screen gives you lots of room, making tasks like video editing significantly easier. But bigger isn't always better, as large displays take up a lot of room. For example, the Samsung Odyssey Neo G9 is a massive 57-inch ultrawide that looks incredible, but its sheer size makes it impractical for a small home office. Monitors come in a variety of dimensions, but standard sizes start at 24 inches, then go up to 27 inches, then 32 inches. Once you go above 32 inches you'll start seeing significant price increases. Also: The best all-in-one computers of 2025: Expert tested and reviewedResolution is measured in PPI, or pixels per inch. PPI measures how many individual pixels are condensed on a display and how sharp and detailed an image appears. The more pixels condensed, the more detailed the on-screen image. I recommend 27-inch monitors with a resolution of 1440p. These specs are a "Goldilocks" standard -- not too big, not too small, while still delivering crisp visuals at an affordable price. Higher resolutions will bring the price up, while lower resolutions are cheaper.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Acer Nitro 27 FreeSync monitor The 27-inch from Acer is an affordable QHD monitor that'll satisfy most users' needs.
View at Best Buy One of my personal favorites I use every day is this Acer Nitro 27-inch. I bought it primarily for its lightning-fast 180Hz refresh rate and 0.5ms response time, ideal specs for gaming. Right now, it's on sale for $189 at Best Buy. 2. Panel type
The Alienware 34 240Hz QD-OLED gaming monitor Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETPanel type refers to the display technology creating the visual output. While there are many options, I'll focus on three of the most common.VA, or vertical alignment monitors are known for high contrast ratios, producing vivid colors and deep blacks. Some models, like the Koorui E2412F have a contrast ratio of 3,000:1. However, they're also among the cheapest displays on the market, with some models prone to blurring. Also: Finally, a big screen all-in-one PC that business users and creatives will both appreciateIPS, or in-plane switching, monitors are the go-to choice for professionals and gamers because of their excellent color accuracy, wide viewing angles, and fast refresh rates. Most laptops and monitors we review have IPS panels. The Acer Nitro 27 mentioned above is one of these monitors. The downside to IPS screens is lower contrast ratios and less vivid colors than OLEDs. OLED, or organic light-emitting diode, monitors are the cream of the crop, delivering superior visual fidelity. They boast rich colors, wide viewing angles, deep contrast, and fast response times. Because OLEDs are the best, they're also the most expensive; however, the technology has gotten so good that there are affordable options out there.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Alienware 34 240Hz QD-OLED The visual output on the Alienware 34 240Hz is nothing short of incredible.
View at Dell A gorgeous OLED monitor I recommend is the Alienware 34 QD-OLED.
If I had the room, I'd own this monitor in a heartbeat. It's a large, ultrawide screen that runs at Wide Quad HD resolution (3,440 x 1,440 pixels) and a refresh rate of 240Hz. The visual output is nothing short of incredible. Plus, the large size provides a ton of workspace. Review: Alienware 34 240Hz QD-OLED Gaming MonitorAt $799, it's not cheap, but it's a solid investment from a brand that's been in the business for decades. For gamers and creatives, this is the 34-inch monitor I recommend most. Check out my full-length review for my experience testing it. 3. Refresh rate
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNETFinally, refresh rate refers to how often a monitor updates the images on screen, measured in hertz (Hz). For the casual user, 60Hz is perfectly fine. Power users, creators, and gamers, however, will want a higher refresh rate like 90Hz, 120Hz, or 240Hz. Just keep in mind that those numbers will put you into premium pricing territory.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Apple Studio Display Made with creative pros in mind, the Apple Studio Display delivers a gorgeous image with glare resistant nano-textured glass.
View at Apple Apple's Studio Display is a fantastic high-end option for Mac users, particularly creatives working with high-fidelity video, photo editing, animation, and design applications. Review: Apple Studio DisplayThe Apple Studio Display sports a 27-inch, 5K resolution panel, churning out high-quality visuals. Its image quality, combined with its six-speaker system, makes it arguably perfect for professionals on Mac.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS KTC 27-inch QHD monitor KTC offers a handful of models with near-4K resolution and fast refresh rates at accessible prices.
View at Amazon This affordable 27-inch monitor from KTC offers a smooth 120Hz refresh rate for a variety of use cases. It's an IPS panel with a handful of different resolution options, but the QHD configuration is a solid pick for most people. 4. Additional recommendations
Acer Nitro GA271U P smart display Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETOutside of these three main points, also consider ergonomics. A good ergonomic monitor will have an adjustable hinge, allowing you to pivot, tilt, raise, or lower a screen to improve comfort. Also: I tested Acer's $299 smart monitor, and it's a tariff-smart option I can get behindThere are also smart displays, which are something like a mix between a smart TV and a monitor. They come with their own remotes and can be standalone displays for streaming services and other apps, while also connecting to your computer.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Acer 27-inch Nitro GA271U smart display This affordable smart display features a 180Hz refresh rate abd QHD (1440p) resolution.
View at B&H Photo-Video
ZDNET RECOMMENDS HP Omen 27K The HP Omen 27K is my favorite monitor of all time. It is a 27-inch display that outputs in 4K resolution, making everything from casual browsing to gaming look vibrant and stunning.
View at Best Buy
Why should you trust me?
I've been writing about both software and consumer electronics for almost 10 years now, and in that time, I've worked in many different settings, from the traditional office to the home office, and even someone's backyard. The remote experience has made me extremely selective about what I choose to be my main monitors as I want to ensure the panels I use can handle my day-to-day tasks. I'm on my computer all day, practically every day of the week.Also: I tested several AIO computers in 2025, and these are the best for your office setupI'm at a point where I know exactly what features and specs to look out for. I know what makes a monitor a must-have and what makes a monitor a must-pass. The advice I have given is not a set of hard and fast rules. I just aim to provide a foundation of what you should look for in a computer monitor. What is best for you depends on your unique needs.
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
These popular free VPNs all share the same shady security practices - here's why
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use