Best VPN for Your Smart TV: Worldwide Streaming Content Available From Your Sofa - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
Best VPN for Your Smart TV: Worldwide Streaming Content Available From Your Sofa
The best VPNs for smart TVs unblock foreign content on Netflix, Disney Plus and Amazon Prime Video. Here are our top picks.
Article updated on September 14, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Written by
Moe Long
Written by
Sam Dawson
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Moe Long Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film. Expertise Apps | Operating systems | Software
See full bio
Sam Dawson Cybersecurity Expert Sam Dawson is a cybersecurity expert and VPN reviewer. After making the leap from academic research into the world of tech writing, Sam found his advocacy for data privacy was a natural fit for the team at ProPrivacy. He has since gone freelance, working for outlets such as TechRadar, TomsGuide, ITPro, and CNET, as well as continuing to conduct research in everything from VPN obfuscation techniques to dark web data leaks.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
What to consider in a VPN for smart TVs
Platform compatibility
Most VPNs include Android TV and Fire TV apps, so if you’re using a television set with one of those operating systems, you can download a compatible app. Many top VPNs are also rolling out TVOS apps for Apple TV devices. Otherwise, you’ll need to run a VPN on your router or purchase a router with a preloaded VPN.
Streaming service unblocking
You’ll want to ensure your VPN provider allows access to the streaming services you want to use, like Netflix, Disney Plus, Max and Amazon Prime Video. Think about the streaming services you use the most and sign up for a VPN that works with those apps.
Speed loss
All VPNs slow down your internet upload and download speeds, but the amount of speed loss varies. A fast VPN will only slow your connection marginally, meaning you can stream 4K videos smoothly. Slow VPN speeds might translate to buffering streams or noticeable dips in quality.
Server network
Check out the number of total servers as well as the amount and location of different countries available. The more choices you’ve got, the easier it is to find an ideal location to connect to whether you want fast and stable connections or to unblock content from a specific region.
Price
VPNs can cost anywhere from $5 to $15 per month or $40 to $140 per year. Choose one that best fits your particular needs and budget, keeping in mind that more features usually translate to higher prices.
Customer support
VPNs are usually easy to install, but some smart TV VPN setups aren't as straightforward. Therefore, you might want to choose a VPN provider with robust help documentation. Live support via chat, phone or email is great for situations when you need help troubleshooting.
Privacy
One of the main reasons to invest in a VPN is for additional privacy. At the very least, we recommend a VPN with a kill switch, DNS leak protection, strong encryption and an audited no-logs policy.
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best VPN for smart TVs overall
ExpressVPN
Privacy protection and transparency
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
See Price at ExpressVPN
9
/10
SCORE
Usability
10
Value
7
Speed
9
Privacy
10
Features
9
Pros
Excellent for streaming on smart TVs
Streamlined, easy-to-use app for smart TVs and routers
Strong commitment to privacy and transparency
Forward-thinking security enhancements
Cons
DNS leaks detected (but immediately addressed)
Pricey
Only eight simultaneous connections allowed
Price
$13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)Latest Tests
No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,000 plus servers in 105 countriesJurisdiction
British Virgin Islands
Why we like it ExpressVPN is the best smart TV VPN for most people, thanks to its user-friendly apps, reliable streaming content unblocking and an easy-to-use VPN router for devices such as smart TVs, Rokus and game consoles that don’t support VPN apps natively. In July 2025, ExpressVPN revealed a network update to include servers in all 50 US states, making it a great choice for unblocking regional sports, including NFL or WNBA games.Why we like it ExpressVPN offers one of the most intuitive streaming VPN app interfaces and consistent user experiences across all devices, making ExpressVPN a great beginner-friendly option. But its exceptional privacy and transparency make it a compelling choice for TV privacy enthusiasts as well. You can find Apple TV VPN, Android TV VPN and Amazon Fire TV VPN apps. Some smart TVs, streaming devices and game consoles don't offer convenient VPN apps, but ExpressVPN's Aircove and Aircove Go routers make it easy to use a VPN with virtually any device. Accordingly, ExpressVPN is a solid VPN for router installation, working nicely for incompatible smart TV systems like Roku, PlayStation or Xbox consoles. For multi-device needs, ExpressVPN runs on Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS and Linux (which has a simple to use GUI). ExpressVPN easily unblocked pretty much every streaming app we threw at it. We were able to access content from streaming services like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, HBO Max and Amazon Prime Video on Apple TV, Android TV, Fire TV and all other devices we tested. You can connect up to eight devices simultaneously with ExpressVPN, which is fewer than many other VPNs offer (NordVPN allows for 10 and Surfshark allows for unlimited simultaneous connections), but it should still suffice for most users. You’ll want fast speeds for streaming and other data-heavy activities like gaming and torrenting. Thankfully, we measured a solid 18% average speed loss in our latest benchmarking with ExpressVPN, which represented a significant improvement over our previous testing.
Read more
If you have critical television privacy needs, you’ll appreciate ExpressVPN’s approach to transparency and user privacy. The provider leads the industry with 23 independent audits since 2018 and sets a standard by consistently rolling out innovative privacy improvements. ExpressVPN has kept pace with post-quantum security standards and integrated ML-KEM into the Lightway protocol to beef up its post-quantum protections. IP Shuffle is another helpful feature that works in the background and changes your IP address each time you load a website, which helps make it even more difficult to track you online. ExpressVPN’s kill switch works as advertised, and we encountered no leaks in our latest tests. The VPN employs industry-standard AES 256-bit and ChaCha20 encryption with its Lightway protocol and also supports OpenVPN and IKEv2 protocols. Its TrustedServer technology takes the RAM-only server infrastructure to the next level by reinstalling the entire server stack in addition to wiping any data with every reboot.ExpressVPN is a well-rounded VPN and one of the very best you can buy. But the catch is that you’ll pay a premium. The monthly subscription plan costs $13 per month, which is pretty standard across the industry. But you'll pay $75 for the first 15 months, or $98 total for the first 28 months (the one- and two-year plans renew at $100 a year). Those prices are approximately in line with what its closest competitor, NordVPN, charges: $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $81 for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year). Other top VPNs like Surfshark and Proton VPN are considerably cheaper. Surfshark costs $48 for the first year or $60 total for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually), while Proton VPN is $60 a year or $108 total for the first two years (the one- and two-year plans renew at $80 annually). ExpressVPN offers a seven-day free trial, followed by a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you have the opportunity to try the service before buying or fully committing.Also featured in: Best VPN for Amazon Fire TV, Best VPN for Netflix
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best VPN for smart TV security
NordVPN
Perfect for power users
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at NordVPN
8.8
/10
SCORE
Usability
8
Value
8
Speed
10
Privacy
9
Features
9
Pros
The fastest VPN we tested
User-friendly apps for smart TVs and streaming devices
Excellent content unblocking capabilities
Robust privacy protections
Cons
Inconsistent pricing structure
Expensive renewal prices
Live chat is difficult to access
Price
$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 3% average internet download speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
7,400-plus servers in 118 countriesJurisdiction
Panama
Why we like it NordVPN is the fastest VPN for streaming devices, delivering blisteringly-fast speeds perfect for buffer-free 4K video streaming or low-lag online gaming and game streaming. It also offers a handful of privacy-boosting options and some innovative features like Meshnet, which can be great for streaming. While Express remains slightly ahead in privacy and transparency, and other VPNs offer cheaper long-term prices, NordVPN still provides an impressive all-around service that continues to improve.Why we like itNordVPN is the fastest VPN we tested by a long shot, with a best-in-class 3% average internet download speed loss -- its closest competitor was Proton at 16% speed loss. In our testing, we found NordVPN to be an excellent choice as a streaming VPN, effortlessly unblocking foreign Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney Plus and Max libraries. Additionally, we had no issues watching BBC iPlayer, CBC Gem, Hulu, Crunchyroll and several other regional streaming services. Coupled with fast speeds, its excellent region-restricted content unblocking makes Nord one of the best VPNs for streaming. With a sizable roster of 8,000-plus servers peppering 126 countries, NordVPN is excellent for international travel and streaming -- its global reach is slightly more than Proton VPN, Surfshark and ExpressVPN. Its 10-device simultaneous device allowance is excellent for power users with many devices. While some providers, like Surfshark and PIA, offer unlimited simultaneous device policies, Nord’s longtime rival ExpressVPN limits you to eight.
Read more
We like that NordVPN’s strong privacy chops go beyond the basics. Alongside the industry-standard NordLynx (WireGuard-based) and OpenVPN VPN protocols, Nord offers its proprietary obfuscation-oriented NordWhisper, which masquerades as traditional web traffic to try slipping through firewalls. NordWhisper could be helpful in situations like on school Wi-Fi, when the network you’re on doesn’t play nicely with VPNs. You’ll get double VPN (which uses a second VPN connection) and Onion over VPN servers (which use Tor) to make it even more difficult to trace your traffic back to its source compared to a standard VPN connection. Meshnet lets you create a virtual local network of PCs, mobile devices and streaming devices for secure file sharing, hosting LAN parties or accessing services like Netflix without pesky multi-factor authentication.Initially, NordVPN is a great value at $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years. However, the one- and two-year plans renew at an astronomical $140 per year, which is considerably more than the $79 to $80 that Surfshark and Proton VPN renew for, but in the same ballpark as ExpressVPN's $100 annual renewal rate. Although you can avoid a pricey renewal price hike by stacking subscriptions, we’d like to see Nord’s pricing model become more transparent. Despite its extortionate renewal price, NordVPN is a superb VPN for everyone, from streaming fanatics to folks with critical privacy needs.Also featured in: Best VPN for Streaming, Best VPN for Xbox
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best value VPN for smart TVs
Surfshark
Extensive features at a great price
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at Surfshark
8.6
/10
SCORE
Usability
9
Value
9
Speed
8
Privacy
8
Features
9
Pros
Fast speeds for streaming
Unblocks lots of streaming content
Easy-to-use app for smart TVs and streaming devices
Budget-friendly
Cons
Expensive monthly plan
Deceptive pricing page
14-Eyes jurisdiction (Netherlands)
Price
$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 21% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,200-plus servers in 100 countriesJurisdiction
Netherlands
Why we like it Surfshark is the best value VPN for streaming devices and smart TVs. Surfshark boasts an impressive roster of useful premium features that deliver a lot of value despite its high renewal price hike. It can’t quite match NordVPN’s speed or ExpressVPN’s overall privacy position, but it comes remarkably close at a cheaper price. Overall, Surfshark is a top-notch VPN that demonstrates consistent improvement year after year.Why we like itSurfshark’s apps are slick, intuitive and deliver a consistent user experience across Apple TV, Android TV and Fire TV streaming devices, as well as other platforms, including Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android and iOS. Streaming buffs will appreciate Surfshark's great region-restricted unblocking content on most devices and streaming services, and that it offers apps for smart TVs as well as streaming devices. Other than a few minor hiccups -- Hulu detected the VPN when we tried to stream content on an Amazon Fire TV Stick -- Surfshark’s streaming experience was solid, which we would expect from a top-tier VPN service, and it offers unlimited simultaneous connections while most VPNs limit you to 10 or fewer. As such, Surfshark is an exceptional VPN for multiple-person households.We’re impressed with Surfshark’s consistently fast speeds over the past few years, with an average speed loss hovering in the high teens. We measured an average speed loss of 21% in our 2025 speed tests -- which is technically slower than previous years, but shouldn’t result in a noticeable difference in practice. Surfshark’s network of over 3,200 servers across 100 different countries is large, but somewhat smaller than those provided by ExpressVPN (105 countries), Proton VPN (122 countries) and NordVPN (126 countries). A large network of servers like what Surfshark offers can help ensure fast speeds and stable connections by minimizing congestion and offering more options for more users to connect to servers nearby their physical location.
Read more
In addition to standard privacy protections like its kill switch, no-logs policy and DNS leak protection, Surfshark includes a few unique features that help it stand out from the pack. Dynamic Multihop lets you tunnel through any two server locations of your choosing for an added layer of privacy, and Rotating IP switches your IP address every few minutes, making it harder to track you online. Surfshark’s Alternative ID lets you create an alter ego complete with full name, physical address and email address that you can use online without divulging your true identity. Following the lead of other VPN providers including ExpressVPN, Mullvad and NordVPN, Surfshark plans to roll out post-quantum protections this year to protect against potential future threats from quantum computers. Even though Surfshark is still playing catchup in terms of transparency, we’re encouraged by company representatives telling us that a no-logs audit has been commissioned for this year (its first since 2022) and that the company is committing to annual third-party audits.While Surfshark’s $15.45 per month rate makes it one of the most expensive monthly subscription prices in the industry, pricing for its longer-term plans is reasonable. The yearly plan costs $48 for the first year while the two-year plan costs $60 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually). Surfshark’s renewal prices increased this year, but its overall pricing is still significantly cheaper than ExpressVPN’s $75 for the first 15 months or $98 total for the first 28 months (the one- and two-year tiers renew at $100 a year), as well as NordVPN’s $60 for the first year or $81 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $140 annually). Like many other VPNs, Surfshark offers a 30-day money-back guarantee in case you’re not satisfied with the service.     Also featured in: Best VPN for Amazon Prime Video, Best VPN for iPhone
VPN DEALS OF THE WEEK
Norton VPN Plus for 72% Off Your First Year:  $30 (save $80)
ExpressVPN: $4.99 Per Month + 4 Months Free (64% Off 2 Years Plan):  $5 (save $8) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best VPN for Your Smart TV: Worldwide Streaming Content Available From Your Sofa
About VPNs for smart TVs
What is the best VPN for smart TVs right now?
Other VPNs we tested
How we test VPNs for smart TVs
Do smart TV VPNs work with all televisions?
Factors to consider in a smart TV VPN to boost your streaming privacy
Best VPN for smart TV FAQs
About VPNs for smart TVs
Viva Tung/CNETA VPN is the perfect way to unlock worldwide content libraries from streaming providers such as Netflix, HBO Max, Disney Plus and Amazon Prime Video on your smart TV, Android TV box, Apple TV streamer or Amazon Fire TV streaming device. Most streaming sites enforce geographical restrictions that prevent you from accessing certain TV shows and movies outside of the regions they’re licensed for. For instance, the movies and television shows you’ll see on US Netflix differ from what’s available on UK Netflix. With a VPN, you can appear as though you’re connecting from another city, region or even country, depending on the VPN server you’re connected to. With a VPN, you can access foreign Netflix libraries, watch BBC iPlayer outside of the UK and stream regional sports matches, like NFL or WNBA games.VPNs route your traffic through a secure server, thereby masking your public IP address, which gives a general indication of your geographical location. In addition to allowing you to sidestep regional restrictions put in place by streaming sites, VPNs boost your privacy -- your ISP can’t tell what apps you use or websites you visit. Using a VPN on your phone may even result in higher streaming video quality if your phone carrier slows down streaming video quality on a cellular connection. Our experts at CNET have put together a list of the best VPN smart TV apps from the dozens of VPNs we’ve reviewed. During our extensive testing, we’ve focused particularly on smart TV usability to bring you the VPNs best-suited for the couch experience. Of course, we’ve also paid close attention to internet speed loss, streaming service unblocking and privacy features. During our hands-on VPN analysis, we ran over 250 individual speed tests per provider, checked for DNS leaks, tried apps on an array of devices and pored over privacy policies. Whether you’re trying to catch up on the latest season of K-Pop Demon Hunters on Netflix or Task on HBO Max, the VPNs we’ve recommended should unlock access to the streaming sites you’re looking for.
Show more
What is the best VPN for smart TVs right now?
ExpressVPN is the best smart TV VPN service overall because it works with tons of streaming boxes, including the Apple TV, offers an off-the-shelf Wi-Fi router with a preloaded VPN and can effortlessly unblock dozens of streaming services. With servers in all 50 US states, ExpressVPN can be a great choice for watching regional sports matches, like NFL, WNBA or NWSL games.
ExpressVPN's clean interface is easy to navigate. ExpressVPN/Screenshot by CNETNordVPN is the fastest VPN we tested, making it one of the best VPNs for streaming devices. If you're a media enthusiast seeking the best possible video quality with 4K ultra-high-definition video, NordVPN is a solid choice for a streaming VPN.
NordVPN offers one of the largest server networks in the industry. NordVPN/Screenshot by CNETSurfshark is the best value VPN for smart TVs, thanks to its wallet-friendly prices, spectacular speeds and privacy feature-rich apps. With unlimited simultaneous connections, Surfshark is a top choice for families or roommates -- and one of the best VPNs for smart TV support.
Surfshark is a value-packed VPN that's excellent for streaming on your smart TV. Surfshark/Screenshot by CNETSmart TV VPNs at a glance Here's how our top streaming VPN picks stack up side by side.
ExpressVPNSurfsharkNordVPNAverage speed loss 18%21%3%Price $13 per month, $75 for the first 15 months or $98 total for the first 28 months (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 annually)$15.45 per month, $48 for the first year or $60 for the first two years combined (one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually)$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $82 for the first two years combined (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 annually)Smart TV/streaming device compatibility Android TV, Fire TV, TVOS, RoutersAndroid TV, Fire TV, TVOS, RoutersAndroid TV, TVOS, Fire TV, RoutersStreaming compatibility Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video (U.S. only), Apple TV PlusNetflix, Disney Plus, Hulu (on most platforms), Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV PlusNetflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video (U.S. only), Apple TV PlusNetwork 3,000 plus servers in 105 countries3,200-plus servers in 100 countries8,000-plus servers in 126 countries
Show more
Other VPNs we tested
Proton VPNThe privacy-focused Proton VPN isn't all work and no play -- it's one of the best VPNs for streaming devices and geo-protected content unblocking. Its fast server speeds allow for buttery smooth 4K streaming, and it's great for unblocking foreign Netflix or Amazon Prime Video libraries. We had great success unblocking some tough-to-access international Netflix libraries, including Netflix Egypt, with Proton. It also supports Amazon Fire TV, Android TV and Apple TV streaming devices. Proton has invested heavily in server quality and now has a worldwide selection of 122 countries to choose from, powered by a network of over 14,900 servers. These servers power some of its excellent privacy features, such as Secure Core, which routes your connection through a hardened VPN server in a privacy-friendly country on its way to your specified destination, making it harder to trace your traffic back to its source (your device). This also makes Proton well-suited for bypassing geoblocking as a streaming VPN, so you’ll be able to watch content from sites like BBC iPlayer, Amazon Prime and Disney Plus anywhere on the planet. It’s also a little cheaper than other premium VPNs, as Proton only sets you back $10 per month, $60 for the first year or $108 total for the first two years, then renews at $80 annually for the one- and two-year plans. Read our Proton VPN review.IPVanishIPVanish is a user-friendly VPN that's adequate for streaming and basic privacy (Disclosure: IPVanish is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis). In our testing, IPVanish easily unblocked international Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney Plus libraries. You can install a VPN on your router for use with a smart TV, or use it on Android TV, Fire TV, Apple TV and a slew of other platforms.IPVanish's straightforward design works fine for VPN beginners. If you just want an intuitive VPN for unblocking content on Disney Plus, Netflix and other services, IPVanish is a decent choice. But its high 44% average internet download speed loss isn't ideal for 4K or even 1080p video streaming if you've got a slower or more unreliable internet connection -- for reference, Netflix recommends 15 Mbps or higher for a single 4K stream, so even folks with a 50 Mbps base internet connection should be alright. Pricing is initially somewhat reasonable, with plans that cost $13 monthly, $40 for your first year, or $53 total for the first two years, but the one- and two-year plans renew at $90 annually, which isn't as good a value. While IPVanish is fine for casual users simply seeking basic privacy for everyday use, there are better VPNs for the price that provide larger server networks and faster internet speeds.Read our IPVanish review.PIAPIA is a wallet-friendly VPN for streaming devices and smart TVs that’s cheaper than most competitors at $12 per month, $40 for the first year (renewing at $50 annually) or $79 total for three years of service. PIA also offers unlimited simultaneous connections, a benefit that pricier VPNs like Proton, ExpressVPN and NordVPN don’t have. It’s suitable for streaming service unblocking, provides a solid network of 35,000-plus servers in 91 countries and has highly customizable, albeit a little unpolished, apps. Folks who live in or frequently travel to the US may appreciate PIA’s servers in all 50 of the United States -- this can be helpful for streaming regional sports, like NFL games. We like that its apps are open-source, meaning anyone can inspect the source code for bugs or vulnerabilities, which is solid transparency. Only a few other providers, including Proton VPN and Mullvad, have open-source apps. While PIA largely sticks to covering the basics, it features some neat privacy amenities, including split tunneling on MacOS (which lets you use a VPN for certain apps and services but not others) -- a rarity among VPN providers. Notably, Surfshark also has Mac split tunneling. But unfortunately, PIA was rough around the edges in our latest round of testing. We clocked its internet speed loss at an underwhelming 48% average, meaningfully higher than the 25% average we like to see. Additionally, we encountered many CAPTCHAs while trying to perform basic tasks like running a Google search. Although streaming was largely decent, we had to change servers more often than with other providers, like NordVPN, Proton VPN, ExpressVPN or Surfshark. You can get Surfshark, which delivers far faster speeds, a better streaming experience and more forward-thinking privacy features, for a little more money. Still, PIA can be good on a budget for folks who need comprehensive US server coverage. Otherwise, your money is probably better spent on Surfshark or Proton VPN, both of which offer faster server performance and robust privacy while charging slightly more cash than PIA.Read our PIA review.CyberGhostCyberGhost VPN doesn't offer all of the privacy bells and whistles as the other VPNs on this list, but it does a good job of unblocking content across a wide range of streaming services. Its implementation of streaming-optimized servers also makes CyberGhost a decent choice if you're a casual VPN user who just wants to stream content on your smart TV or streaming device.CyberGhost isn't as fast as others like NordVPN or Surfshark, but you should still be able to stream content without worrying about constant buffering. CyberGhost has servers located in 100 countries around the world, making it one of the best in terms of global network coverage. If you decide to hook a VPN up to your smart TV via a router, CyberGhost provides detailed instructions in its Help center on how to do so -- although it doesn't offer custom router firmware like ExpressVPN does. If you have a Fire TV or Google TV, you'll be able to download the CyberGhost VPN app directly to your TV. CyberGhost VPN also offers a smart DNS solution that will give you access to its DNS servers in the US, UK, Germany and Japan.Although it's a decent VPN for streaming on your smart TV and has a large server network, there's not too much more to like about CyberGhost. The VPN's questionable privacy practices, buggy apps and mediocre speeds make it difficult to recommend for most use cases.
CyberGhost costs $13 per month, $42 every six months for the bi-annual plan, or $57 total for the first 26 months with the two-year plan. The two-year plan then renews at $57 annually. CyberGhost offers a 14-day money-back guarantee on the monthly plan and a 45-day money-back guarantee on its longer-term subscription plans. For similar pricing or even cheaper, you can choose from several other VPNs that are far superior to CyberGhost for streaming on your smart TV -- or for basically any other purpose.Read our CyberGhost review.
Show more
How we test VPNs for smart TVs
With so many VPN options available, it can be difficult to cut through the advertising to find the right software for your needs. We rigorously tested dozens of VPNs to assess performance, privacy and value. More specifically, we analyzed average speed loss, checked for DNS leaks and tried out apps on different devices. In addition, we compared costs to determine the best price-to-performance ratios. For smart TV use, we looked at streaming service content unblocking, performing hands-on tests with Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video and a handful of other platforms. Because some televisions require a router VPN, we consulted each VPN provider’s help guides and also factored in streaming device app compatibility.
Show more
Do smart TV VPNs work with all televisions?
VPNs do work with smart TVs, although how you go about setting up a virtual private network on your television depends on its operating system. If you have an Android TV (also called Google TV), Fire TV or Apple TV, you can install a VPN app directly on your device. For certain televisions running Roku, LG’s WebOS or Samsung’s Tizen OS, you’ll need to use a router-based VPN rather than downloading software on your smart TV. Luckily, nearly every VPN provider offers support for routers, but depending on your hardware, the process might be tricky -- you may even risk voiding your router's warranty. On the plus side, once you do have your VPN router set up, it’ll automatically cover every device connected to it without using up your simultaneous connections limit, so it might be a better choice if you have several different smart TVs you want to connect to a VPN. Using a VPN for streaming devices may be easierIf you’re using an operating system like Roku, WebOS or Tizen that doesn’t support directly downloadable VPN apps, you’ll need to install VPN-compatible firmware separately onto your router. Some companies like ExpressVPN sell routers preloaded with a VPN, but most don’t -- so it’s typically a do-it-yourself setup that requires some technical know-how. Using a VPN app on a Fire TV Stick, Android TV media streamer or Apple TV is the simplest solution, but there are several ways to use a VPN for streaming on your television.
Show more
Factors to consider in a smart TV VPN to boost your streaming privacy
Based on our years of comprehensively testing VPNs, here are the main factors to think about when selecting a VPN for your smart TV or a VPN for streaming devices.Device and VPN compatibilityMost providers now offer Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and Android TV VPN compatibility. If you’re using a television set running Android TV or Fire TV, smart TV integration with an operating system that supports VPNs natively means you can easily download a compatible app. But if you've got an LG TV running webOS or a Samsung TV running Tizen OS, you’ll need to run a VPN on your router, bridge a VPN connection from your PC or buy a router with a preloaded VPN. Likewise, if you rely on a Roku or game console for streaming, you'll need to use a router VPN or use your computer as a VPN router hotspot. Even if your VPN provider doesn’t offer a router VPN firmware, you should be given a set of OpenVPN credentials you can load onto your router using open-source firmware such as DDWRT. But be aware -- running a VPN on your router could void its warranty. Streaming service unblockingYou’ll want to ensure your VPN provider allows access to the streaming services you want to use. Whether you’re trying to watch U.S. Netflix from abroad or enjoy UK Disney Plus and Amazon Prime Video libraries at home in the States, it’s crucial to have one of the best VPNs for streaming. Think about the streaming services you use the most and sign up for a VPN that works with those apps. Speed lossAll VPNs slow down your internet upload and download speeds, but the amount of speed loss varies. Generally, we recommend VPNs with a 25% average speed loss or less. The fastest VPNs only slow your connection marginally, meaning you can stream 4K videos smoothly. Some companies suffer from greater speed reductions, which might translate to buffering streams or noticeable dips in quality. Server networkA reliable VPN for your smart TV should have a large network of servers. You’ll want to check out the number of total servers as well as the amount and location of different countries available. The more choices you’ve got, the easier it is to find an ideal location to connect to. For example, if you’re on holiday in London, you’ll ideally want to use a London server rather than one in Stratford-upon-Avon for the fastest speeds. Generally, the closer a VPN server is to your actual location, the faster speeds and more reliable connection you’ll enjoy. If you want to access international streaming content from other countries, you'll want to check the VPN's list of server locations to ensure it has servers in the regions from which you want to stream content.
PriceVPN prices often depend on when you sign up (some offer competitive seasonal deals) and whether you pre-pay (an annual subscription or multi-year purchase typically saves you a meaningful amount). Although a multi-year package usually gives you the best possible pricing, we don’t recommend shelling out for more than a year at a time. A VPN provider may be private, fast and value-packed when you sign up, but it could suffer a data breach, go out of business or get acquired by a disreputable organization. Thus, we suggest sticking with a year-long subscription instead for the most savings and the lowest risk. Looking for a provider with a 30-day money-back guarantee gives you the ability to test the VPN to make sure it’s compatible with your smart TV and unblocks the streaming sites you expect. If you find otherwise, you can always ask for a refund and try another provider instead. Help guides and customer supportSmart TV VPN apps for streaming devices like Android TV, Apple TV and Fire TV boxes or dongles are usually easy to install, but running one on a router or setting one up on certain platforms like Linux isn’t always as simple. Therefore, you might want to choose a VPN provider with robust help documentation. Most VPN providers don’t lock their support FAQs behind a subscription, so you should be able to check out what help is available before you spend money on a subscription. If you’re not confident in installing a VPN on a router, look for providers that have 24/7 live support via chat, phone or email. It may save you a lot of time in the long run and can be great for situations when you have troubleshooting or billing questions. Privacy and securityOne of the main reasons to invest in a VPN is for additional privacy, whether for bypassing geoblocking or preventing your ISP from selling your browsing and viewing history data. At the very least, we recommend a VPN with a kill switch, DNS leak protection and strong VPN encryption. Look for AES-256-bit encryption (over the OpenVPN and IKEv2 VPN protocols) or ChaCha20 (with WireGuard). You should also make sure your VPN provider has a no-log policy (while this is impossible to fully verify, it’s nonetheless important). Generally, we recommend you pick VPN providers with regularly audited no-log policies conducted by a reputable third-party, as these providers have gone the extra mile to demonstrate they’re responsibly handling your data. Best VPN for smart TV FAQs
What's the best VPN for your smart TV in 2025?
ExpressVPN is the best VPN for smart TVs and streaming devices overall. It has an extremely intuitive smart TV VPN app, offers Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV and Android TV support, provides fast speeds and offers excellent streaming service unblocking. NordVPN is the fastest VPN for smart televisions and streaming devices, making it an exceptional choice for 4K video streaming and low-lag gaming. It has an enormous network of servers that lets you easily unblock dozens of regional streaming services, like foreign Netflix libraries, BBC iPlayer, CBC Gem and others. Surfshark is the best value VPN for smart TVs thanks to its unique privacy features, fast speeds and unlimited simultaneous device policy.
Show more
Why should you use a smart TV VPN app?
Today's TVs aren't only for watching cable or local network programming. They're also for video-on-demand streaming, and some content is regionally locked. If the programming you want to watch isn't available in your country, you can use a smart TV VPN app to spoof your location to access virtually any of the content you may want. Even if unblocking geo-restricted video content on your smart TV isn't of interest to you, you might want to use a VPN on your smart TV to improve your television privacy by preventing your ISP from monitoring your viewing habits or keeping track of your internet activity. For gaming, a VPN can help lower lag for online play or game streaming.
Show more
Which VPN works on a smart TV?
You can find smart TV VPN apps for Android TV, Amazon Fire TV and Apple TV streaming devices and smart televisions, but the process for setting up a VPN on your TV varies based on your device’s operating system. For televisions running Android TV or Fire TV, you can download a VPN app directly on your machine. For Roku, LG’s webOS or Samsung’s Tizen OS, you’ll need to run a VPN on your router or use a PC as a router VPN hotspot. Luckily, you can always pick up a dedicated media streamer like an Amazon Fire device, Android TV box or Apple TV and install a dedicated VPN app if you don’t want to mess with a router-based install.
Show more
Do VPNs work on smart TVs for Netflix streaming?
Yes, VPNs do work on smart TVs to stream Netflix. You can use a VPN either to access US libraries while traveling abroad or to unblock foreign Netflix catalogs.
Show more
Do I need a VPN for my smart TV?
Yes, you need a VPN for your smart TV or streaming device if you want to unblock geo-restricted content like foreign Netflix libraries, keep your browsing and viewing history private from your ISP or potentially reduce ping on distant game servers. For instance, using a UK VPN server should load Netflix's UK library; a Canadian server should help you see Canadian Netflix and so forth. Additionally, using a VPN hides your browsing activity from your ISP, so you can hide your viewing history.
Show more
Can you get a free VPN for your smart TV?
Yes, you can get a free VPN for your smart TV. Proton VPN is the best no-cost VPN, and the only zero-dollar VPN we enthusiastically recommend. While Proton VPN's free plan doesn't limit your monthly usage, it doesn't let you pick a sever, you can only use it on one device at a time and it may not work with all streaming services. So we recommend a paid Proton account if you want to stream on your smart TV.
Show more
What is the best free VPN for smart TVs?
Proton VPN is the best free VPN for smart TVs and the only no-cost VPN we wholeheartedly vouch for. It doesn't limit your monthly usage or slow down your server speeds. However, you can't manually pick a server, you can only use it on one device at a time and it doesn't always work as well with streaming when compared with a paid Proton VPN plan.
Show more
What does my ISP see when I'm streaming with a VPN?
When you're streaming using a VPN, your ISP should see traffic coming from the public IP address of the VPN server that you're connected to and accordingly, your ISP can't tell what streaming services you're using while connected to a VPN.
Show more
Are VPNs legal to use on smart TVs?
Yes, a VPN is usually legal to use on a smart TV, but you'll want to check the terms of service of the streaming apps you're using to make sure they allow for VPN usage. Likewise, check local laws in your country to make sure VPNs are legal to use.
Show more
Which VPN protocol works best for streaming on smart TVs?
Generally, the WireGuard VPN protocol, a derivative or an equivalent -- like ExpressVPN's Lightway or NordVPN's NordLynx -- will give you faster speeds than OpenVPN or IKEv2, so we recommend WireGuard or a comparable VPN protocol. However, if you need to use obfuscation, which hides the fact that you're using a VPN, for an app or website that doesn't play nicely with VPNs, you may need to use OpenVPN or an obfuscation-focused VPN protocol, like NordVPN's NordWhisper or Proton VPN's Stealth.
Show more
How do VPNs affect streaming quality on smart TVs?
All VPNs slow down your internet connection somewhat, but the fastest VPNs only reduce your internet download speeds by an average of 25% or less. A fast, reliable VPN shouldn't noticeably impact your audiovisual quality, and you typically won't experience any buffering, especially if you've got fast base internet speeds of 50Mbps or more. Netflix recommends a 15Mbps connection for a single 4K stream, so even if you've got a 50Mbps connection and your VPN cuts your internet speeds in half, you should be able to watch a 4K ultra-high-definition video without issues.
Show more
Do I need a fast VPN for 4K streaming on my smart TV?
Yes, you do need a fast VPN for 4K streaming so that you retain the bulk of your base internet speeds. However, your VPN connection typically won't make your internet speeds faster, so you'll need an already reliable internet signal to begin with. Netflix recommends a 15Mbps minimum internet speed for a single 4K video stream, so you'll want at least a 30 to 50Mbps base internet connection, such that if a VPN halves your download speeds, you can still stream in 4K -- but the higher the better.
Show more
Do VPNs work on all smart TV brands and operating systems?
No, not all smart TV operating systems natively support VPN apps. Android TV, Amazon Fire TV and Apple TV all offer VPN app compatibility. You can't download VPN apps on Roku, Samsung's Tizen OS, LG's webOS or PlayStation and Xbox game consoles. For incompatible systems, you'll need to run a VPN on your router or use a PC as a VPN router hotspot.
Show more
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.