How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
This quick tweak can instantly boost speed and responsiveness on nearly any device, no matter the brand.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 3:47 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Google released Android 16 back in June to Pixel devices and select OEMs, bringing performance improvements, new Material You changes, and more upgrades. If you want to try this update but are hesitant because you've noticed your Android phone or tablet already feels too sluggish, clearing app and browser caches can give it a fresh boost and free up some storage space.Also: The best Android phones to buy in 2025Over time, cached data can accumulate, become corrupted, or simply get outdated, which may slow down your device. Restarting your phone often helps, but a targeted cache-clear is a quick way to boost responsiveness without upgrading hardware.In this guide, I'll show you how to clear cached data on Android. If you're an Apple user, here's how to clear the cache on an iPhone.How to clear cached data from Android appsWhat you'll need: Any Android device. The exact steps may vary slightly by manufacturer, but the general process remains the same.
1. See all the apps installed on your Android device
Open Settings, go to Storage, and tap Apps. If you don't see a dedicated Apps entry, use the search area in Settings to quickly find it.Also: I changed 12 settings on my Android phone to give it an instant battery boostAlso in the Storage menu, some Android devices now include a "Free up space" suggestion via the Google Files app. To use this, open Files, tap the three-line menu in the top-left, and select Clean. Review each suggestion (e.g. unused apps, large files, duplicates) and follow the steps to delete any files you no longer need.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Clear cache for individual apps
Tap an app you've installed (avoid system services), then select "Storage and cache," and tap "Clear cache." Don't tap "Clear storage" unless you want to reset the app completely. Also: I changed 10 Samsung phone settings to instantly improve the user experience
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Repeat for other apps
Repeat for any apps that use a lot of space. You can start with data-heavy hogs like social apps or streaming services. Also: How to factory reset your Android phone without unlocking itAlso, while you're in the Apps menu, some Android versions make it easy to see which apps take up the most space. Simply look for the three-dot menu in the top-right corner and select Sort by Size. Note: Some Android phones may have a built-in clear all cache option available. Under Settings > Storage > and App Cache, look for a 'Select All' button at the top.
Show more
How to clear cache from ChromeWhat you need: The Chrome app on your Android 16 device.1. Go to History settings in ChromeOpen Chrome, tap the three-dot menu > History > Clear browsing data.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET2. Choose the data you want to deleteSelect the time range and check "Cached images and files" (and any other data you wish to remove). Then tap "Clear data." Also: My 7 favorite new Android 16 features include delights for every Pixel userEach option explains what it does and how it affects your experience. For example, clearing cookies and site data will log you out of many or all websites, while clearing cached images and files might cause Chrome to load images slower next time you visit a site.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET3. Optional: A simpler shortcutOn newer versions of Chrome for Android, tapping the menu button displays an option called Clear Browsing Data. When you select this, a pop-up will appear asking you to clear browsing data from a specific period. If you select More Options, you'll be taken to the Browsing Data screen, where you can choose the data to delete and select the time range.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQ
What does cached data mean?Cache stores temporary files -- like images, scripts, and other resources -- to speed up apps and websites. Clearing it removes these files without affecting personal settings or login credentials.Also: Every Pixel device announced at Made by Google: 10 Pro Fold, Watch, Buds, moreFor example, in the Facebook app, cached data might include profile pictures, photos, and videos. Deleting cached data from the Facebook app will remove these temporary files on your device, but won't log you out.
Show more
Will clearing cache delete my app data?No. Clearing cache only removes temporary files. Your accounts, settings, and app data remain intact.Will clearing cache make my device faster?Yes. It frees up storage and removes potentially corrupted or outdated files, which can resolve slowdowns and glitches.How often should I clear cache?Whenever you notice slowdowns or app glitches. For most users, every three to six months is sufficient.Also: I made 5 simple changes on Android to instantly make my phone sound betterIs clearing cache only for storage?Clearing cache can also fix app issues by forcing apps to rebuild their temporary files. It's a quick troubleshooting step, not just a storage cleanup.Editor's note: This article was originally published in 2023. It was fact-checked and thoroughly updated on September 2, 2025 to reflect the new Android 16 update.Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.See also
How to turn on Private DNS Mode on Android (and why you should)
How to schedule a text on Android - quickly and easily
How to create Android Routines (and a few of my favorites to get you started)
How to screen calls on your Android phone and stop the spam deluge
How to mirror your Android phone to a TV -- 3 easy ways
Android's eSIM transfer comes to more smartphones. Here's how it works
How to turn on Private DNS Mode on Android (and why you should)
How to schedule a text on Android - quickly and easily
How to create Android Routines (and a few of my favorites to get you started)
How to screen calls on your Android phone and stop the spam deluge
How to mirror your Android phone to a TV -- 3 easy ways
Android's eSIM transfer comes to more smartphones. Here's how it works
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How you're charging your tablet is slowly killing it - 3 methods to avoid (and the right way)
Slow Roku TV? This 30-second routine will keep your device running like new
Your Roku has hidden settings and menu screens - here's how to unlock them
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use