Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences job with Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences | 12844901
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Employer
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Location
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Salary
Internationally competitive salary and benefits will be provided
Closing date
19 Jan 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Applied Science,
Computing,
Engineering,
Mathematics
Job Type
Director,
Engineer,
Faculty Member,
Head of Department,
Lecturer,
Postdoctoral,
Principal Investigator,
Professor,
Research Assistant,
Researcher
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
The Institute of Automation of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CASIA) was founded in 1956. As a premier national AI research center with world reputation, CASIA has been a major contributor to cutting-edge research in areas such as pattern recognition, automation science, complex systems, AI for Science, robotics, machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, biometrics, medical imaging, social computing, and AI hardware. CASIA is the first national research institution to carry out brain-inspired intelligence research in China. CASIA also established the first School of Artificial Intelligence in China as part of the University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
CASIA houses the State Key Laboratory of Multimodal Artificial Intelligence Systems, the Laboratory of Cognition and Decision Intelligence for Complex Systems, the National Engineering & Technology Research Center for ASIC, and the Laboratory of Brain Atlas and Brain-inspired Intelligence. It has also jointly established several international collaborative programs conducting AI research.
CASIA’s main site is at the heart of the Zhongguancun high-tech zone. In recent years, it has spun off four additional campuses, located in Huairou District (Beijing), Wuhan (Hubei Province), Nanjing (Jiangsu Province), and Hong Kong, China, respectively.
Position Description：
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CASIA) invites applications for full-time faculty positions at Full/Associate/Assistant Professor.
Areas of interest include but are not limited to the following:
Machine Intelligence
Brain Science and Brain-inspired Intelligence/Computing
Natural Language Processing
AI for Science and Innovative Applications of AI
Autonomous Agent and Multi-Agent Learning
Complex Systems Modeling, Control, and Decision Making
Computational Games and Evolutionary Games
Robotics
Human-Like Audio-Visual Processing
Hardware and Software for AI Systems
Interdisciplinary Research in AI for Fundamental Sciences (e.g., Mathematics, Brain and Cognitive Science, Physics, Psychology)
Job Requirements：
Professor: Applicants for the Professor rank should have obtained PhD degrees in Artificial Intelligence or related fields, and should hold full professorship or the equivalent rank at research-oriented universities or R&D institutes. Applicants whose current academic rank is associate professor or the equivalent are also encouraged to apply if they have achieved outstanding academic performance and their research interests are aligned with priority areas identified by the CASIA.
Associate Professor: Applicants for Associate Professor should have obtained PhD degrees in Artificial Intelligence or related fields and should have independent scientific research experience in research-oriented universities, R&D institutions, or industry labs.
Assistant Professor: Applicants should have obtained PhD degrees in Artificial Intelligence or related fields. Applicants should have conducted publishable research in areas aligned with the priority areas identified by the CASIA.
Location: CASIA has campuses in Beijing, Wuhan, Nanjing.
Application Materials Required:
Please submit the following application materials to talent@ia.ac.cn.
Curriculum Vitae
Three Representative Publications
Compensation and Benefits:
Internationally competitive salary and benefits will be provided. For more detailed information about benefits available to applicants, please visit our website at https://casia.zhiye.com/4/jobs
Contact Us:
Dr. P Y Chen
Tel: +86-10-82544657
E-mail: talent@ia.ac.cn
Address: No. 95 Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100190
CASIA Official Website: http://www.ia.cas.cn
CASIA Career: https://casia.zhiye.com/
CASIA WeChat: casia1956
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Recruitment of Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
Chemistry Faculty Positions at Westlake University
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
Faculty and Research Positions, Postdoctoral Recruitment
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software