Daily briefing: Device senses silent speech without an invasive brain implant
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
19 September 2025
Daily briefing: Device senses silent speech without an invasive brain implant
A wearable device senses electrical signals in the muscles used to formulate speech to detect internally articulated words. Plus, this year’s Ig Nobel prizewinners and what we can learn from octopuses.
By
Flora Graham
Flora Graham
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.Arnav Kapur, chief executive of AlterEgo, demonstrates the wearable device.Credit: AlterEgoPrototype device controlled by silent speechA wearable device offers a similar experience to brain-computer interfaces without the invasive implants or the privacy concerns that come along with mind-reading. The ‘AlterEgo’ device detects electrical signals in the muscles used to formulate speech that are sent by the brain when you silently mouth or even just internally articulate words. Its makers say it could be used by people who have issues with speaking, or to interact with voice-controlled applications without having to talk out loud.Nature | 5 min readUS$5 trillion-$38 trillionThe health and economic benefits generated by vaccines against COVID-19 in the first year alone — a return of $60 to $475 on the dollar. (New Scientist | 4 min read)Ig Nobels honour funny, smart researchRegular readers of this newsletter will remember when an all-Italian team of researchers set out to ‘scientifically optimize’ the recipe for cacio e pepe. (Their solution involved adding only one ingredient to the traditional combination of pasta, black pepper and pecorino cheese: cornstarch.) Now the team can add an Ig Nobel Prize to their mantle next to their ‘mentioned in the Nature Briefing’ trophy. “We were thrilled and genuinely honored,” says psychologist Fritz Renner, who co-authored another winning study, on how a little tipple can improve your foreign-language skills.Nature | 6 min readReference: Physics of Fluids paper & Journal of Psychopharmacology paperFeatures & opinionWhat we see in octopus eyesOctopuses are a fascinating combination of intelligence and otherworldliness that can tempt us to turn to them for insights into ourselves, writes author Verlyn Klinkenborg in his review of five recent books on the eight-armed muse. “If you’ve ever met one in the wild, you know that an octopus doesn’t just look at you. It considers you,” writes Klinkenborg. “To encounter an octopus is to be implicated in a question about being that engulfs you both.”The New York Review of Books | 18 min readFutures: The parable of the doorsA man considers whether ignorance is, in fact, bliss in the latest short story for Nature’s Futures series.Nature | 6 min readFive best science books this weekAndrew Robinson’s pick of the top five science books to read this week includes a scandalous study of symbiosis and the lives of ‘experimental archaeologists’ that recreate the ways of the lost civilizations.Nature | 4 min readPodcast: an AI health oracleA new AI tool, called Delphi-2M, can calculate a person’s risk of developing different diseases, sometimes years in advance. The model was trained to identify patterns of disease progression using the health records of 400,000 people, which allows the tool to predict someone’s future disease risks, based on their current medical record. The typical set up for AI health-prediction systems is “one tool for one disease”, says AI researcher and study co-author Moritz Gerstung. “There is not really a tool that does provide a very comprehensive assessment.” Delphi-2M could fill that gap — it can calculate the risk of over 1,000 diseases at once.Nature Podcast | 35 min listenSubscribe to the Nature Podcast on Apple Podcasts, Spotify or YouTube Music, or use the RSS feed.Quote of the day“Wild nature is not a crop but a cathedral, and a single old-growth forest is a databank containing more info than any legions of supercomputers could hold.”Environmental author Rick Bass writes that mature forests of the United States, such as in his beloved corner of Montana, are essential carbon sinks — not “just crops of fibre that could be farmed like corn”. (High Country News | 8 min read)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03084-7Today Leif Penguinson is hiding on the shores of the world's highest freshwater lake system — the Gokyo Lakes in Nepal. Can you find the penguin?The answer will be in Monday’s e-mail, all thanks to Briefing photo editor and penguin wrangler Tom Houghton.This newsletter is always evolving — tell us what you think! Please send your feedback to briefing@nature.com.Thanks for reading,Flora Graham, senior editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Jacob Smith• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Jobs
postdoctoral researcher
Molecular Mechanisms and Neural Circuits of Fear Memory, Maternal and Social Behavior. A recent PhD in molecular biology / neuroscience.
Piscataway, New Jersey
Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology Organisation: Nature Portfolio  Location: New York or Madrid  Application Deadline: Oc...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing Applicatio...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Department of Cell and Systems Biology University of Miami | Miller School of Medicine, Miami FL   The Department of Cell and Systems Biology at ...
University of Miami, Miami
University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Postdoctoral fellow at Tulane University Neuroscience, Cerebrovascular, Ischemia, Dementia, Traumatic brain injury.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited