CDC’s end to remote work leaves disabled employees in limbo : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
CDC’s end to remote work leaves disabled employees in limbo Members of a union representing federal workers said it has been waiting for guidance from the CDC and its parent agency on whether telework will be considered an accommodation under its revised policy.
Health
CDC pauses remote work arrangements for employees with disabilities, union says
September 18, 202512:39 AM ET
By
Ayana Archie
A sign marks the entrance to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention headquarters Wednesday, Aug. 27, 2025, in Atlanta.
Brynn Anderson/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Brynn Anderson/AP
A union representing Centers for Disease Control and Prevention workers is accusing the federal agency of jeopardizing accommodations for its disabled employees by ending remote work. In January, the Office of Personnel Management said federal employees would have to return to the office full-time, with the exception of those "excused due to a disability, qualifying medical condition, or other compelling reason certified by the agency head and the employee's supervisor." Then, last month, the Department of Health and Human Services, the parent agency of the CDC, released an updated telework policy that does not include telework as a reasonable accommodation.
Sponsor Message
Members of the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), a union representing over 800,000 federal employees across the U.S., say that the revised policy's lack of clarity around remote work has stoked confusion among staff members with remote-work arrangements as well as their supervisors. Yolanda Jacobs, president of AFGE Local 2883, told NPR on Wednesday that some of CDC's disabled employees are waiting for an answer on whether working offsite remains a reasonable accommodation. "If there's any discussions happening, it's happening between the CDC's leadership and HHS, it's not happening with the employees," she said. "Employees are finding out secondhand and last minute." The HHS and CDC were not immediately available for comment.
Public Health
Ousted CDC director testifies she was fired for resisting pressure from RFK Jr.
NPR has obtained a copy of a memo with CDC branding from a person who was not authorized to release it. The memo, dated Sept. 16., says the new telework policy no longer includes telework as a reasonable accommodation available to employees. The CDC, it said, will defer to the HHS on how to proceed with disabled employees' telework accommodations, and that, "until additional clarification is received," approvals for any pending requests for remote work accommodations would be "paused until further notice." According to the memo, the new telework policy took effect on Aug. 13.
Sponsor Message
The CDC has not responded to a request to comment on the memo. "Instead of waiting on guidance from HHS, [the CDC has] decided to move forward on their own interpretation of what reasonable accommodations should look like," Jacobs said.
Economy
Trump attempts to reshape Federal Reserve leadership ahead of vote on interest rates
Another source familiar with the matter said Wednesday that the union has received about 250 emails from disabled employees at the CDC's Atlanta headquarters who are concerned about losing their telework arrangements. They include, for example, workers who use wheelchairs or who require caretakers. The source said the CDC has not provided official figures on how many disabled employees have telework as a reasonable accommodation in their roles. Employees can still work remotely until their current telework arrangements expire, according to the memo. Jacobs told NPR the union has been directing its members to resources to take legal action if they choose. The confusion comes at a tumultuous time for the agency. CDC was shaken up last month after HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. fired Susan Monarez less than a month into her role as director. Several top leaders in the agency resigned shortly after, including infectious disease physician Demetre Daskalakis. Monarez testified before the Senate on Wednesday that she was fired for not giving into Kennedy's pressures to fire scientists and pre-approve vaccine recommendations for the public.
CDC
remote work
disabilites
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor