Volume 645 | Nature
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
volumes
volume 645
Volume 645
No. 8082 25 September 2025
The future of universities
Universities have been the cornerstone of higher education for centuries, but since the end of the Second World War, their role has changed significantly. More recently, technological innovations such as artificial intelligence have increased pressure on these institutions like never before, posing fundamental questions about what education is for, how it should be delivered and how it should be funded. This week, in a special issue, Nature probes the challenges faced by higher education — drawing on examples from across the world to assess how the sector can adapt to survive.
No. 8081 18 September 2025
Self-help
Large language models (LLMs) tend to be better at solving problems if they can be trained to set out the steps they take as they try to reach the solution. This kind of ‘reasoning’ is similar to how humans approach more complex problems, but it presents significant challenges for artificial intelligence, requiring human intervention to add labels and annotations. In this week’s issue, researchers at DeepSeek reveal how they trained a model not only to reason in this way but also to do so with minimal human input. The model DeepSeek-R1 was trained using reinforcement learning in which the model was rewarded with a high score when it solved mathematical problems correctly and penalized when it got the answer wrong. As a result, it learnt that reasoning — tackling the problem in a stepwise manner and revealing those steps — was more likely to lead to the correct answer. This led DeepSeek-R1 to self-verify and self-reflect, checking its performance before giving answers to new questions and thereby improving its performance in coding and graduate-level science problems.
Innovations In
Alzheimer’s Disease
No. 8080 11 September 2025
Major issue
Although it has been established that human-induced warming increases the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, there has not been a comprehensive analysis of historical events. In this week’s issue, Yann Quilcaille and colleagues examine heatwaves during the period 2000 to 2023 to assess the effects of climate change and the contributions from major carbon emitters. They find that, because of climate change, heatwaves became 20 times more likely for the years 2000 to 2009, and 200 times more likely for the period 2010 to 2019. They also show that emissions from 180 ‘carbon majors’ — businesses with a particularly high emissions profile, such as fossil-fuel and cement producers — contributed to half the increase in heatwave intensity since the period 1850–1900. Their individual contributions were so high that each was sufficient to enable the occurrence of 16 to 53 heatwaves that would otherwise have been virtually impossible in a preindustrial climate.
Technology Feature
Biobanks
No. 8079 4 September 2025
Rhythm and blooms
The cover shows birdcage evening primroses (Oenthera deltoides) flowering in Joshua Tree National Park, California. The seasonal rhythms of plant growth can vary substantially from place to place, and the geographical patterns this produces — known as land surface phenology — hold key information about ecosystem function. In this week’s issue, Drew Terasaki Hart and colleagues present satellite-derived global maps of land surface phenology, which they use to assess the patterns and drivers of local divergence and intercontinental convergence in seasonal life cycles. By comparing their maps to ground data from a range of plant and animal species, the authors demonstrate the value of remote sensing for understanding the ecological and evolutionary consequences of ‘allochrony by allopatry’ — the tendency, in certain regions, for seasonal phenologies to be out of sync between nearby sites.
Focal Point
Focal Point on Dairy Research in China
Previous Volume |
All Volumes
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
This journal
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited