Best Wireless Home Security Cameras of 2025: Battery-Powered Protection - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras of 2025: Battery-Powered Protection
Installing a home security camera doesn’t have to be complicated. These CNET-tested wireless cameras are high-quality and worth buying.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Written by
Macy Meyer
Article updated on September 5, 2025 at 9:00 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Macy Meyer Writer II Macy is a writer on the AI Team. She covers how AI is changing daily life and how to make the most of it. This includes writing about consumer AI products and their real-world impact, from breakthrough tools reshaping daily life to the intimate ways people interact with AI technology day-to-day. Macy is a North Carolina native who graduated from UNC-Chapel Hill with a BA in English and a second BA in Journalism. You can reach her at mmeyer@cnet.com. Expertise Macy covers consumer AI products and their real-world impact Credentials Macy has been working for CNET for coming on 2 years. Prior to CNET, Macy received a North Carolina College Media Association award in sports writing.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Smart home compatibility
Does the cam work with your current smart home platform or voice assistants?
Live view
Is the app intuitive and the live view clear?
Local vs. cloud storage
Does the camera offer your preferred method to store videos? Does it require a subscription or extra purchase?
Motion detection
Does the camera have useful motion detection that can recognize people apart from animals or vehicles?
Battery life
Is the battery life rating something you're comfortable managing? Does the battery perform well under frequent use?
Privacy and security
Does the camera brand have a reputation for fixing security breaches and protecting data?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
A home security camera is a smart investment, especially with the holiday shopping season approaching. It can help protect you from rising package theft and even deter a potential home invasion while you’re away. Plus, a wireless battery camera is easy to install and can be placed almost anywhere. The batteries are long-lasting and can sometimes be powered with solar panels. That's why we tested many cameras to find which ones are worth buying. Our Picks
Best overall wireless home security camera Arlo Pro 5S 2K Security Camera
Jump to details
$120 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best wireless home security camera for battery life Blink Outdoor 4
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best wireless home security camera for object detection Google Nest Indoor/Outdoor Cam (2nd-gen)
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best floodlight wireless home security camera Arlo Pro 3 With Floodlight
Jump to details
$247 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best doorbell wireless home security camera Google Nest Doorbell Battery (2nd-gen)
Jump to details
$155 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget wireless home security camera Arlo Essential Cam (2nd-gen)
Jump to details
$50 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best portable wireless home security camera Ring Stick Up Cam Pro (Update: Currently Unavailable)
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 2 more
OUTDOOR SECURITY CAMERA DEALS OF THE WEEK
Blink Outdoor 4 1080p Security Camera (3-Pack):  $100 (save $160)
TP-Link Tapo C120 2K QHD Security Camera:  $25 (save $16)
Ring Spotlight Cam Plus Battery Camera (2022 Release, White, 2-Pack):  $180 (save $101)
Blink Outdoor 4 XR 2 Camera Kit With Mini 2 Camera:  $110 (save $110)
Arlo Pro 5S 2K Spotlight Camera (White, 3-Pack):  $200 (save $250) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras of 2025: Battery-Powered Protection
Best overall wireless home security camera
Best wireless home security cameras of 2025
Best overall wireless home security camera
Best wireless home security camera for battery life
Best wireless home security camera for object detection
Best floodlight wireless home security camera
Best doorbell wireless home security camera
Best budget wireless home security camera
Best portable wireless home security camera
Wireless home security cameras compared
Other wireless cams we tested
Factors to consider when choosing a wireless security camera
How we test wireless security cameras
Recent updates
Best overall wireless home security camera
Know how much you should pay for a camera to save when you make your purchase. ArloWe've tested dozens of battery-powered cam models, and our experts have chosen the feature-rich Arlo Pro 5S as the best wireless security camera. Arlo’s Pro 5S packs all the smart capabilities you could want into one device, plus excellent voice assistant compatibility, the well-designed Arlo app and the option to expand capabilities with an Arlo hub. It’s an easy choice if you’re willing to pay a bit more for a compact wireless device packed with the latest smart features.While the Arlo Pro 5S is pricey, you don't have to spend a lot to get a great security camera. For those on a budget, we've included a range of affordable wireless options we've tested that provide solid home protection. Our list includes options that have extra-long battery life, along with some that are portable (although there are some spots you'll want to avoid). We also have guides for the most affordable security cameras, the best solar-powered wireless cams and outdoor models built for any weather.Best wireless home security cameras of 2025
Arlo
Photo Gallery 1/3
Know how much you should pay for a camera to save when you make your purchase. Arlo
Best overall wireless home security camera
Arlo Pro 5S 2K Security Camera
Pros
Strong battery life with low-power mode
12x zoom and night vision
Spotlight
2K resolution
Broad smart home support
Video storage local or cloud
Cons
No Apple support without adding a hub
On the expensive side
Why I like it:The Arlo Pro 5S 2K-resolution camera brings more to the table than any wireless cam we’ve seen so far, including a battery rated for a very healthy six months and low power settings (enhanced by an optional Arlo system connection) to extend that to six months.This camera offers as many features as possible to give users choices, including extra functionality like 12x zoom and color night vision. Smart home compatibility is some of the best we’ve seen with support for Alexa, Google Home, Samsung and IFTTT settings, plus Apple support if you're willing to add a Base Station. You can also use the built-in spotlight and siren to ward away intruders if you feel uncomfortable, or tap into the two-way audio to have a conversation.Finally, the Arlo Pro 5S also offers a subscription service with tiers for cloud storage and professional monitoring. You can choose to buy a hub device like Arlo SmartHub and connect local storage if you prefer to stay off a plan. However, the latest Arlo plan includes handy tricks, including the ability to recognize fires and listen for specific sounds like dogs barking.Who is this for:Buyers who want everything in one cam and don't mind considering a subscription fee or add-on -- especially Apple users.Who shouldn’t buy it:Those looking for the cheapest cam, fans of simple apps and feature sets.  ... Show more
Get it now
$120 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
2K with 12x digital zoomMotion detection
Yes, object detection for people, animals, fires and morewith subscriptionBattery life
8 months with average useVoice assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Samsung SmartThings, IFTTT, Apple Home with a hub
Add to compare
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/3
The Blink Outdoor 4 has an adjustable mount that's sturdy enough to stay at the right angle. CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Best wireless home security camera for battery life
Blink Outdoor 4
Pros
Long two-year battery life
Included hub for storage
Motion detection with zone control
Two-way audio
Night vision
Cons
Limited to Alexa support
Why I like it:If you’re hesitant to get a wireless security camera because of the battery requirements, you have a couple of solutions. One is a solar panel, which we’ll discuss below, but another option is finding a camera with excellent battery life so you don’t have to worry about it for extended periods. While battery life does depend on how often cameras are activated, the Blink Outdoor 4 can last up to two years in the right conditions before needing a recharge with its lithium AA batteries. That battery life seems accurate, too -- ours has been operating for over a year and the battery life is still going strong.Other important staples on the Outdoor 4 include two-way audio, infrared night vision and motion zone control. We especially like that it comes with a Sync Module 2 for Wi-Fi connections and local storage, so you don’t have to rely on the Blink subscription unless you prefer to pay for extras. Keep in mind, like other Amazon Blink cams this model only works with Alexa, so it’s most useful if you’re already part of the Amazon ecosystem with items like an Echo Show.Who is this for:Buyers look for an all-purpose outdoor cam with amazing battery life and a simple app. Who shouldn’t buy it:Users who want more than Amazon Alexa, people who want a spotlight option.
... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
1080p/HDMotion detection
Yes, general motion for free with person detection (plan required)Battery life
Up to 2 years Voice assistant
Amazon Alexa
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best wireless home security camera for object detection
Google Nest Indoor/Outdoor Cam (2nd-gen)
Pros
Easy to install and manage
Google Assistant and Alexa support
Free 3 hours of video storage
Google AI is smart and useful
Fun magnetic base design
Cons
Shorter battery life
1080p resolution could be higher for the price
Why I like it:Google’s Nest cam (and most Nest products) are designed to be extra easy to use and install, ideal for people who want quick eyes on their important belongings with minimal work. Set up the Nest’s mount indoors or outdoors, and use the magnetic connection to snap the cam on, adjust it and take it offer easily whenever you need to recharge. That makes maintenance especially easy, which is important because of the lower battery life on this camera. In our tests, we found the design excellent if a bit bulky, and we liked the floodlight option too if you don't mind wiring in another component.The HD cam included night vision and two-way audio, plus Google’s video storage package which includes up to 3 hours of cloud storage for free, a welcome deal only offered by a few brands these days. It also works with both Alexa and Google Assistant, so you don’t need to be heavily invested in Google products to get a lot out of this cam.Who is this for:Fans of Google Home and free AI object detection, people who like magnetic mounts for angle adjustment.Who shouldn’t buy it:Users who don't like cloud video, people looking for a very lightweight cam.
... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
1080p/HDMotion detection
Yes with person, vehicle, animal, and familiar face (plus more Gemini with a plan)Battery life
Up to several monthsVoice assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant
Add to compare
Arlo
Photo Gallery 1/3
You don't have to hard-wire the Arlo Pro 3 Floodlight Camera. Arlo
Best floodlight wireless home security camera
Arlo Pro 3 With Floodlight
Pros
Powerful floodlight
2K resolution
Apple Home compatibility with hub purchase
160-degree viewing angle
Optional magnetic charging cable
Cons
Floodlight can drain battery fast, sometimes in just a few days
Why I like it:A floodlight camera is ideal for illuminating darker parts of your yard or driveway, but those tend to be spots where electrical wiring doesn’t reach, so a battery camera can work very well. We found this Arlo model filled with impressive features including 2K resolution and color night vision. Like our top Arlo pick, it's of the few security cams that works with Apple Home, although you will need to purchase an additional SmartHub. It also has an extra-wide viewing angle of 160 degrees, making these cams good for viewing broad spaces.While you can change some settings for motion detection, object recognition and similar features, remember that the floodlight will usually trigger movement. With a floodlight rated up to 2,000 lumens, that can be a serious drain on battery life and we’ve seen users complain that their batteries only last a few days. If this is a problem for you, the cam does come with a magnetic charging cable that’s suited for outdoor use, so you can rig up a wired alternative or spring for a solar panel connection, so you still have options.Who is this for:Users who want bright floodlights in a very specific spot. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who aren't fans of charging batteries for a wireless camera.  ... Show more
Get it now
$247 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
2KMotion detection
Yes, with person, vehicle, animal, package and familiar face detection with a planBattery life
Up to six months, but far less when using those LEDs for frequent lightingVoice assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant
Learn more
Arlo Pro 3 With Floodlight review
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Want ADT+? You better be really chummy with Nest, too. Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best doorbell wireless home security camera
Google Nest Doorbell Battery (2nd-gen)
Pros
Free cloud storage for 3 hours
Two-way audio
Google's AI object detection works well
Easy placement with the battery model
Cons
Battery life is a little short at several months
130-degree Field of view may be limited for large front yards
Why I like it:While Google’s Nest Doorbell does come with a wired version, we prefer the battery model. In our testing, we found it easier to install to get just the right view from your front door, and the battery easily lasts at least a few months even with regular activations. Plus, that same Nest deal for 3 free hours of cloud storage is hard to beat in a video doorbell.Features like two-way audio are even more important on a doorbell, and Google also uses some of its AI expertise to help identify packages, people and vehicles with other options locked behind the subscription. Plus, you get a few color options to better match your door and trim. If you don’t mind using the Google Home app to control the device, this is one of the best video doorbells we’ve found as a wireless model.Who is this for:People who want to stop porch pirates without paying subscription fees, fans of familiar face technology. Who shouldn’t buy it:Users who want Apple compatibility, people more interested in backyard or garage cams instead.  ... Show more
Get it now
$155 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
720pMotion detection
Yes, with person, vehicle, animal, package and familiar face detection (the last requires a plan)Battery life
Up to several monthsVoice assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant
Add to compare
Arlo
Photo Gallery 1/3
Arlo's Essential series is a great budget option for those who still want as many features as they can get. Arlo
Best budget wireless home security camera
Arlo Essential Cam (2nd-gen)
Pros
Amazing features for a cam often under $100
2K resolution
Durable outdoor design
Built-in spotlight
Color night vision
Good smart home support
Great solar options
Cons
An $8 Arlo subscription will raise that low price
Why I like it:Not all of Arlo’s cams are as pricey as our top pick: This second-gen, 2K-resolution Essential model is one of the most affordable on our list, and if you wait until a holiday sale you can save even more. In our tests we found the weighty model well-suited for all kinds of outdoor weather, with the same smooth design and user-friendly Arlo app experience as its other cams. Battery life is a little low with all those features but in our testing it still lasts several months before running out and is rated for over a year with minimal use.You also get all the valuable Arlo features like two-way audio, color night vision and solid smart home compatibility. There’s even a built-in spotlight for dark conditions. If you don’t want to worry about battery life, this is also one of our favorite cameras to pair with a solar panel, a bundle you can easily pick while still keeping the price reasonable. Just keep in mind how much Arlo cams benefit from an $8 subscription, which will add to the cost.Who is this for:Fans of cheaper wireless cams that still have a little of everything. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who would rather trade wireless features and fees for saving the most money possible.  ... Show more
Get it now
$50 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
2KMotion detection
Yes, motion detection plus object detection with subscriptionBattery life
Up to 16 months with minmal usage, several months with high activationsVoice assistant
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, IFTTT, Apple Home with a Hub
Add to compare
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/3
Ring's battery cam is on the higher-end but offers a versatile, weather resistance option to watch kids wherever they are. CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Best portable wireless home security camera
Ring Stick Up Cam Pro (Update: Currently Unavailable)
Pros
Versatile placement options
Battery life performs well
Great distance-related motion detection features
High-quality two-way audio
Cons
Expensive for an HD cam at over $150 without discounts
Video storage requires $5 subscription
Why I like it:With both mounting and table-stand options, you can take the Ring Stick Up Cam anywhere so it makes the most use of its wireless capabilities. You can move it from watching a child sleep to checking on the living room to monitoring an outdoor deck space where kids (or adults) are playing. (You get the idea.) Or find the perfect spot and mount it for a permanent HD view supported by HDR and color night vision, which our tests find all worked well.While the Stick Up Cam Pro performs well inside or out, its features are most effective outdoors. These include 3D motion tracking with a “Bird’s Eye” view that can track where people move around your yard. Two-way audio is also included, but you’ll need a Ring Protect plan if you want video storage. If you’re put off by the Pro’s fairly high price, a standard Ring Stick Up cam is available for significantly less.Note that Ring last year changed its policy regarding police requests for user footage, limiting law enforcement to only emergency life-or-death requests for video instead of more casual orders. That’s a bit of welcome privacy compared to its previous stance.Who is this for:People who want to move a security cam with them, fans of great night vision with larger backyards.Who shouldn’t buy it:Those uninterested in subscriptions or those who want more smart home options than than Alexa.  ... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Resolution
1080p/HDMotion detection
Yes, person detection with privacy and bird's eye zonesBattery life
Up to 6 months (drains much faster with frequent activations)Voice assistant
Amazon Alexa
Add to compareWireless home security cameras compared
Arlo Pro 5S 2K Security CameraRing Stick Up Cam ProBlink Outdoor 4Google Nest Indoor/Outdoor Cam (2nd-gen)Arlo Pro 3 with FloodlightGoogle Nest Doorbell Battery Model (2nd-gen)Arlo Essential Cam (2nd-Gen) Price $120$180$180$180$247$155$58Resolution 2K with 12x digital zoom1080p/HD1080p/HD1080p/HD2K720p2KNight vision Color night vision with spotlightColor night visionInfrared night visionNight vision and HDRColor night visionNight vision with HDRColor Night VisionAudio Two-way audioTwo-way audioTwo-way audioTwo-way AudioTwo-way audioTwo-way audioTwo-Way AudioVideo storage Cloud storage with subscription or local storage with SmartHubCloud storage only with subscriptionWith subscription or with included local storage hub3 hours free cloud storage, more with subscriptionCloud storage with subscription or local storage with hub3 hours free cloud storage, more with subscriptionCloud storage only with Arlo subscriptionMotion detection Yes, object detection with subscriptionYes, with privacy and bird's eye zonesYes, with person detection (plan required)Yes with person, vehicle, animal, and familiar faceYes with object detectionYes, with person, vehicle, animal, package and familiar face detectionYes, object detection with subscriptionVoice assistant Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Samsung SmartThings, IFTTTAmazon AlexaAmazon AlexaAmazon Alexa, Google Home/AssistantAmazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Apple Home/SiriAmazon Alexa, Google Home/AssistantAmazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, IFTTTReview score N/A8/10 (earlier model)N/A8.4/109/108/10N/A
Other wireless cams we tested
Wyze Cam Outdoor v2: Wyze cameras have a lot going for them, including affordability and strong feature sets, which is why we've picked them in several of our lists before. Wyze is currently facing repeated security breaches and vulnerabilities, including a 2024 incident that let 13,000 people see through strangers' cams (a similar incident also happened in late 2023). Until Wyze gets a handle on its security leaks, we can't recommend it as a brand.Arlo Pro 4: The Arlo Pro 4 remains an excellent choice for a security camera. The Arlo Pro 5S nudged it off the list for us, but you may be able to save some money with the Arlo Pro 4 and still have many of the same features.Ring Stick Up Cam: While this cam is more affordable, we ultimately prefer the better features on the Pro model instead.SimpliSafe Outdoor Camera Series 2: This is a great camera -- if you use a SimpliSafe system and are willing to pay for a more advanced subscription so you get all the AI goodies. But it's not a standalone camera, and so ultimately not a good fit for this list.Reolink Argus Eco plus solar panel: While we did choose this Reolink cam as an affordable option for solar-powered wireless cameras, we prefer the much easier installation of Arlo's solar cam.TP-Link Tapo C420S1: This powerful 2K camera is affordable and benefits from Tapo's user-friendly features, including local video storage. It didn't quite make our list -- we found better budget options, and the design of this camera is a bit awkward for mounting -- but it's still worth a look. Factors to consider when choosing a wireless security camera
This Arlo Pro 5-camera system includes wall mounting and screws, rechargable batteries and a base station with built-in siren. It's expected to be available at a 38% discount now through July 16 at 11:59PM Pacific. Arlo via AmazonDoes it work with smart home platforms? If so, do the smart features work well together? Nowadays, home security cameras are expected to work with at least one major smart home platform. Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple HomeKit are the main ones you need to look for. Apple Home app support is usually the hardest to find. How's the live view? Wireless security cameras and video doorbells are often exposed to direct sunlight, weather and other natural elements, but many others are installed under porches, near shady trees and in all sorts of other settings. The camera must have crisp, clear video footage or even night vision so you don't get stuck with grainy and unusable footage. InstallationWireless camera installation is typically with a screwed-in mount. Some use adhesive, but that works best in mild weather and smoother surfaces, which are often in short supply outdoors, so take that option with a grain of salt. Don't drill into anything that you want to keep safe from moisture unless you're willing to carefully caulk the edges of the cam, too.Local vs. cloud storageNot all video storage is equal. You have two main options and picking one is up to your personal preference. There's cloud storage, which sends your video footage to a remote server to be saved, and local storage, which relies on a separate accessory or piece of hardware, usually a microSD card, to hold any footage you'd like to save. Usually, cloud storage requires a monthly fee, and companies typically reserve the right to share that footage with others in case of emergencies, such as an FBI search. But it's very easy to manage and you don't have to be at home to change it. Local storage is cheaper but more limited by how much a storage card can hold, and may not have the same history or analysis options of cloud data.
Tapo's solar bundle is ready for all kinds of weather.
TapoMotion detection and recognitionMotion detection is one of the most important features of DIY security cameras. You'll want a feature that automatically records video and sends you alerts when the camera picks up motion. You also don't want to get alerts and useless videos every time leaves blow by (or cars drive by, deer walk past, etc.). That's where object detection comes in useful: The best security cameras can distinguish between vehicles, animals and people. The best versions like Google's AI detection can also detect packages and, if you allow them, familiar faces at your door.Battery life and managementWireless cams live and then literally die based on their battery life. When looking for a good battery, keep in mind that ratings are subjective, and batteries will drain faster depending on how often the camera is activated. We've found that most wireless security cameras fall in line with their ratings and last several months with at least a few daily activations. Charging typically takes several hours, leaving it overnight is a great way to get a full charge.Ring's Outdoor 4 cam is a notable outlier with its extra-long battery life, and solar cams offer an alternative way of charging.No matter what battery option you pick, consider installing a wireless camera somewhere that's relatively easy to reach to bring the camera or its battery pack inside for charging. Not everyone wants to climb a ladder every time.ConnectivityMost wireless cameras need Wi-Fi to work. Some security cameras can operate on PoE or Power over Ethernet, but then they won't be wireless, so a strong Wi-Fi network is important. This usually depends on your router more than your cams, but keep in mind Wi-Fi signals need to reach across exterior walls, sometimes multiple obstacles. Our Wi-Fi works well for exterior cams at ranges of 30 to 50 feet, but your results may vary so try to be a little flexible with placement and always test Wi-Fi before you drill. Privacy and securityYou may want to look up privacy policies for the camera you are interested, and see if the brand has had any recent security issues. We look for brands that act quickly and make significant changes when they find a security issue like Eufy's security breach back in the early 2020s or how Wyze cams had multiple security flaws in just a few months. We also like to see changes like Ring removing its casual option for police to request user videos. How we test wireless security cameras
Wireless camera charging isn't complicated, but there's a few things you need to know about how it can work.  ArloHands-on testing is core to our evaluations of home security products. In short, when it comes to security cameras, we pay special attention to resolution, night vision and latency, extra features, general performance and overall value. We evaluate all of these elements in a real home environment over a week, posting up wireless cameras indoors and outside to see how they perform. Setup and detection featuresWireless camera installation is usually simple by nature, but we pay close attention to the design, weight, mounting options and general fit of the cam for at home use. That includes testing magnetic mounts, screw vs. adhesive installation and how easy it is to adjust a cam to a certain and keep it there. Video quality and night visionIn testing, we take a close look at app live views, video recordings and general clarity. Latency is also important: Most cams will take at least a few seconds to bump up to higher resolutions, but we like see as short of times as possible, and even shorter for motion detection to trigger. We'll also take a look at cam night vision in the dark, a field that has come leaps and bounds in recent years and is usually enough for any quality cam to capture nighttime details for the average yard. Battery life and weather resistanceBy testing these cameras for longer, we can get a good look at battery life over weeks. Weather resistance is harder to test, but depending on the season we can expose the camera to hot sun, rainy storms or winter snow to see how it handles everything. Smart home integrationsIf the camera has support for options like Apple Home and Google Home, we also try connections and controls from there. Since Matter support has been slow to come to cameras, this is one place we often run into bugs or features that are missing on certain platforms, so it's important to test. If you want to read more about our review process, check out our in-depth article on how we test home security cameras and video doorbells.
Amazon
Wireless security camera FAQs
Can wireless cameras work without internet?
Wireless smart cams generally rely on your home internet connection to function, but that isn't always the case. Some devices, like Nest's wireless video doorbell, can save footage locally in case of an outage. Other systems, like Lorex's cameras, work using their own wireless network. That means as long as their base station has power, the wireless cameras will keep recording onto a microSD card.
What's a good affordable wireless security camera system?
The cost of smart security cameras can add up really quickly, so if you're looking for a whole system of cameras, more affordable options from developers like Blink or Arlo may be best. Getting an affordable video doorbell might be a good idea, too, and wireless options are getting cheaper every year. Generally, wireless cameras cost more than wired and very rarely go below $50.
How do I place a wireless security camera?
Most wireless cameras use a simple screw-in mount or adhesive strips. Follow the manual’s directions carefully to prepare your mounting surface and install the base portion of the camera. When possible, avoid trying to install a camera on stone, metal, brickwork or fiber cement, as these surfaces aren’t easy to drill into and may not support a sticky adhesive (especially when temperatures change). Solid sections of trim, fence posts, eaves and other spots tend to work best in our experience.Since you’ll have to take down a wireless security camera occasionally for battery recharging or other maintenance, it’s a good idea to choose a spot that’s relatively easy to access in the future.
Is it legal to use a security camera on my property?
Respect other people’s privacy and you shouldn’t have any legal issues with a wireless security camera. Generally, that means you can’t point a camera toward someone else’s backyard where they expect privacy, or into the windows of their home. You also shouldn’t point wireless cameras so they look into your own bedrooms or other private places in your home.
How long do wireless cameras handle power outages or internet disruptions?
Wireless cameras won't need to worry about power outages because of their batteries, but that still means Wi-Fi networks will be disrupted. While some security cameras offer basic Bluetooth connections, almost all modern wireless cams need Wi-Fi for remote and app management. However, they'll usually be able to pick up motion, recognize objects and record video on their own until Wi-Fi is restored.
Recent updates
Spring 2025 update: We decided to add Arlo's Essential camera as a viable budget option, especially with its frequent discounts. Arlo cams more or less need a subscription to really take advantage of their advanced features, but it's still a worthy option for those who want low initial costs for a very, very good camera.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Also written by
Macy Meyer Writer II
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.