How to Take a Photo of a Dinosaur | PBS
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
How to Take a Photo of a Dinosaur
Step into the world of Walking with Dinosaurs with Augmented Reality — right from your phone!
Launch Triceratops
Launch T-Rex
Twenty-five years after its original broadcast, the critically acclaimed series Walking with Dinosaurs is back—bigger, bolder, and more breathtaking than ever. With the help of groundbreaking discoveries and stunning CGI, the show brings six extraordinary dinosaurs to life like never before.Now, you don’t just have to watch them—you can stand beside them.In this Augmented Reality (AR) experience, you’ll meet legends like the Tyrannosaurus rex and Triceratops face-to-face. Take an epic photo or video of these prehistoric giants as they stand right in front of you!
Step 1: Launch the Experience
Scan the QR codes below using your smartphone’s camera OR tap the links below to open the experience in your smartphone's browser.
Triceratops
Launch Triceratops
T-Rex
Launch T-Rex
Step 2: Start Your Encounter!
In order to show you the amazing features of augmented reality, you'll need to grant access to your camera and sensors. Tap “Allow” when prompted so your phone can use its camera. This lets the dinosaurs appear in your space—just like magic.
Step 3: Place the Dino
Point your phone at the floor or a flat surface and move it slowly. This helps your phone find the perfect spot to place your dinosaur encounter. You adjust its positioning with the following gestures on your smartphone's touch screen:rotate by using two fingers in a twisting motionscale by pinching - keep one finger steady as the other moves away or closerdrag with one finger to move the dinosaur's position
Step 4: Pose and Snap
See the T. rex or Triceratops appear through your screen in your environment. Follow the on-screen instructions to take in key details, and take a photo or video to capture the moment.
Step 5: Share and Enjoy!
Save your image or video and share on social using #WalkingWithDinosaursPBS.
Troubleshooting and FAQ
What is AR (Augmented Reality)?
Augmented Reality blends digital creatures and objects into your real-world space through your phone’s camera. Think of it as a 3D pop-up right in front of you—no headset needed!
The experience isn’t loading. What should I do first?
Try refreshing the page. If that doesn’t work, close and reopen your browser, or clear your browser cache and try again.
I’m seeing a black screen or nothing is showing up.
Make sure your camera permissions are enabled for the browser. If you accidentally denied access, go into your browser settings and allow camera access for this site.
My camera isn’t activating. How do I fix that?
Ensure your device’s camera is not being used by another app.Check that camera permissions are enabled in your browser settings.Try restarting your browser or device.
The AR content seems misaligned or shaky.
This experience is optimized for the latest versions of Chrome and Safari on iOS and Android devices. Some older phones or browsers may not support AR features.
Can I use this on desktop or laptop?
This experience is designed for smartphone devices with a camera. While it may load in a desktop browser or a tablet, the full AR functionality requires a smartphone.
I’m stuck on the loading screen.
Check your internet connection.Clear your browser cache and cookies.Close and reopen your browser.If the problem persists, try a different browser or device.
How do I restart the experience?
Simply refresh the page or close and reopen the link in your browser.
Which devices and browsers are supported?
This experience is optimized for the latest versions of Chrome and Safari on iOS and Android devices. For the best performance, we recommend using Google Chrome. The web experience is optimized for mobile phones made after the year 2020.
Thank you for signing up for our newsletter!
What to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS coming soon to your inbox. Want to subscribe to see all of PBS’ email offerings in one place? Check out our newsletter page.
The best of PBS, straight to your inbox.
Be the first to know about what to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS.
Leave this field blank
Submit
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
PREMIERES JUNE 16
Walking with Dinosaurs
The legend is back as Walking with Dinosaurs returns. Meet six iconic dinosaurs, emerging from incredible dig sites as we tell these heroes’ stories of struggle, love and survival.
Add to your Watchlist
Explore More
Meet Triceratops: Walking with Dinosaurs
by Ashlee Sierra | June 12, 2025
Meet Lusotitan: Walking with Dinosaurs
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
Meet Pachyrhinosaurus: Walking with Dinosaurs
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
Meet Gastonia: Walking with Dinosaurs
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
Meet Spinosaurus: Walking with Dinosaurs
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
Meet Albertosaurus: Walking with Dinosaurs
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
Dinosaur Size Comparison: From Smallest to Tallest
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
What Can We Learn From Dinosaur Bones?
by Ashlee Sierra | June 11, 2025
How to Take a Photo of a Dinosaur
by PBS | June 03, 2025
See all Articles
Deep Dive Into Walking With Dinosaurs
,
Quizzes & Interactives
,
PBS Programming
,
Science, Nature & Our World
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
About PBS
Donate
PBS Foundation
TV Schedule
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sponsorship
Contact Us
© 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.