Supporting Your Researchers - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Supporting your researchers
We exist to serve the research enterprise which means our priorities are based on the needs of scholars, librarians, funders, and institutional leaders, not shareholders. Partnering with us means your institution and researchers will benefit from:
A transparent, predictable fee structure
Our pricing is transparent, consistent, and predictable. We work with you to find the best solution for your authors and reduce the administrative overhead of managing individual APCs.
A smoother path to open access for your authors
Institutional support for your authors eliminates the time researchers spend administering the payment workflow themselves. We work with our partners to ensure authors are aware of their publishing benefits.
Custom reports and publishing insights
Use our native tools to dig deeper into submissions, publications, funding and data sources for your authors. Plus, we partner with vendors like COUNTER and LibLynx to provide the same level of usage detail you’d find with a subscription publisher.
A reputation for editorial rigor
We place scientific rigor and ethics at the center of everything that we do. A global community of experts work with our authors pre-and post-publication to ensure that the research we publish is accurate and reliable. Understanding the unique needs of the communities that we serve means we can help you put your authors’ best foot forward.
Automatic funder compliance
All our journals have been fully open access from the very beginning. Our commitment to make everything we publish immediately available for anyone to share and reuse without restrictions naturally complies with major open access funder requirements including the Gates Foundation, Wellcome, Plan S, and UK Ref. We’re also a participant in the PLAN S Price Transparency Framework.
A focus on principles, not profit
We will not waste public money and will do everything we can to ensure our services are valuable and cost effective. Our institutional agreements are structured to make our journals sustainable, and any surplus revenue goes toward furthering our open science mission.
Indexing and discoverability
To ensure research content is accessible and discoverable as widely as possible, all PLOS journals are indexed by major services such as Crossref, Dimensions, DOAJ, Google Scholar, PubMed, PubMed Central, Scopus, Web of Science, and many more.We submit all of our titles to major indexing services for evaluation as soon as possible according to the schedule of the specific service.Up-to-date indexing information for each journal is always available on the journal website.
Contact our Institutional Sales team
If you’re a librarian and have questions about your institutional account or partnership opportunities at PLOS, please email InstitutionalAccounts@plos.org.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top