Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 17, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Samsung Galaxy Book 5 360
$987
$1350
Save $363
A convertible laptop that's great for all uses. It packs a large 15.6-inch AMOLED screen, along with Intel's Core 7 Ultra chip. Grab it now as it drops to its best price thanks to a steep $363 discount.
$987 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
This laptop has everything you need, and it comes in with a substantial discount that's well below its usual retail price. Samsung is best known for its phones and TVs, but it also makes some fine computing products as well, which is why we think this laptop is a good choice for someone looking for something new.
The Galaxy Book 5 360 not only looks good, but it also packs tons of power as well. It's also quite versatile thanks to its 2-in-1 design. But, as stated before, the real attraction here is going to be its discounted price, with Amazon knocking $363 off. You can now grab it for $987, which isn't exactly cheap, but it's definitely a good price for what you're getting.
This laptop is going to be the perfect fit for most people
When it comes to performance, you're looking at a laptop that can handle pretty much anything you throw at it. The Galaxy Book 5 360 features an Intel Core 7 Ultra that's paired with 16GB of RAM and 512GB of SSD storage. In addition, you get a large 15.6-inch AMOLED touchscreen with stylus support, and a 2-in-1 form factor that makes it highly versatile.
It comes loaded with Windows 11 and also has access to plenty of powerful AI features like Copilot. Samsung claims the battery on this laptop will last up to 31 hours, and can charge from 0% to 39% in just 30 minutes. Connectivity is also quite good, with two Thunderbolt 4, USB-A, microSD card slot, HDMI, and a 3.5mm audio jack.
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 5.4 are also onboard here, along with a 1080p webcam for those important videocalls. The keyboard is spacious, along with the trackpad, so typing feels comfortable even after a few hours. Again, not a bad package here for the price. This laptop will do everything you need it to, unless you're looking for something more specialized for gaming or creative tasks.
Laptops
Samsung
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
Ranking every Gears of War game from best to worst
Sep 15, 2025
A Nintendo Switch emulator just popped up on the Google Play Store, and Nintendo likely won't be pleased
Sep 16, 2025
5 reasons high-end CPUs have become overkill in 2025
Sep 16, 2025
The Raycast beta for Windows already improves one of my favorite features
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
6 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
One week in, these mods are making Dying Light: The Beast so much better
4 tiny single-board computers that outclass the Raspberry Pi
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.