Best Air Purifiers for 2025 | Top-Rated Air Purifiers for Home, Pets and Large Rooms and Dust - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Small Appliances
Best Air Purifiers for Better Health You Can Buy in 2025, as Tested by Our Experts
CNET's experts tested the best air purifiers on the market for price, size and performance to help you breathe more comfortably.
Our Experts
Written by
Gianmarco Chumbe
Written by
Pamela Vachon
Article updated on May 20, 2025 at 11:00 AM PDT
Gianmarco Chumbe
Laboratory Technical Project Manager Gianmarco Chumbe has been part of the CNET Home team since 2018. He is in charge of developing and carrying out testing procedures for a wide variety of home appliances and smart devices including robot vacuums, smoke/CO detectors and air conditioning units.
He takes a data-driven and creative approach to every project he is involved in, honoring his background in Science and Engineering. Expertise SOP development and laboratory testing of home appliances and smart devices
See full bio
Pamela Vachon Contributor Pamela is a freelance food and travel writer based in Astoria, Queens. While she writes about most things edible and potable (and accessories dedicated to those topics,) her real areas of expertise are cheese, chocolate, cooking and wine. She's a culinary school grad, certified sommelier, former bartender and fine dining captain with 10 years in the industry. When not sitting at the keys, she leads in-home cheese classes, wine tastings and cocktail demonstrations. Expertise Wine | Cheese | Chocolate | Cooking
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If seasonal allergies leave you sniffling or your home's air quality isn't up to par, a high-quality air purifier can make a world of difference. Dr. Mark Hyman, chief medical officer at Function Health, explains that “we’re constantly breathing in particles, allergens and toxins that can impact our health.” Small adjustments -- like improving air flow or keeping gentle sounds nearby -- can help make indoor spaces more comfortable.But picking the right air purifier isn't easy. Models are designed to tackle different challenges ranging from dust and pet dander to mold. That's why CNET's expert team put dozens of air purifier models to the test, so you can confidently pick the one that meets your specific needs. Our Picks
Best overall air purifier, and best for smoke, allergies and dust
BlueAir 311i Max
Jump to details
$229 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best air purifier for pets Blueair Blue Pure 511
Jump to details
$90 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best air purifier for viruses, bacteria and mold
Germ Guardian AC4300
Jump to details
$120 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best air purifier for entire home Coway Airmega 400s
Jump to details
$366 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget choice and quietest air purifier Levoit Core Mini
Jump to details
$50 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Air Purifiers for Better Health You Can Buy in 2025, as Tested by Our Experts
What is the best overall air purifier?
Best air purifiers of 2025
Best overall air purifier, and best for smoke, allergies and dust
Best air purifier for pets
Best air purifier for viruses, bacteria and mold
Best air purifier for entire home
Best budget choice and quietest air purifier
Air purifiers compared
How we test air purifiers at CNET
Other air purifiers we've tested
Why you don't see Dyson air purifiers on this list (yet)
Can air purifiers improve your health?
Who needs an air purifier?
Air purifier buying advice
Types of air purifiers
Tips for effective air purifier use
What is the best overall air purifier? CNET's pick for best overall air purifier goes to the Blueair Blue Pure 311i Max. During lab testing, Blueair outperformed the competition, clearing smoke and particles from the air faster and more effectively in our controlled testing chamber. Its versatility, low energy draw and relatively low noise level while running even on the highest setting, combined with its median price, made the Blueair an easy choice for the best overall air purifier. Best air purifiers of 2025
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNET
Best overall air purifier, and best for smoke, allergies and dust
BlueAir 311i Max
Pros
Automatically adjusts speed based on air quality
Energy efficient
Quieter than most models
App tracking and remote scheduling
Cons
On the pricey side
In terms of smoke, seasonal allergens and dust, an important consideration in buying an air purifier is whether it has an automatic mode. Certain air particles do not remain consistent throughout the year or even throughout the day. “Auto-mode purifiers can automatically ramp up the speed when the pollution is higher,” says Jie Zhao, head of Delos Labs, a human health tech company. Air purifiers such as the BlueAir Blue Pure 311i Max with automatic mode respond to the actual air quality, and adjust the speed accordingly. In addition to its automatic setting, BlueAir’s Blue Pure 311i Max was the top finisher at both low and high fan settings, bringing the particulate count down to pre-smoke levels in 6.6 and 2 minutes, respectively. On top of that, the Blue Pure 311i Max was the second most energy-efficient unit for its capacity and surprisingly quiet too, reaching only 46.1 decibels when running at its highest fan setting -- a full 9 decibels lower than the loudest model among those we tested.The Blue Pure 311i Max also has voice controls and comes equipped with a five-color air quality indicator and a pollution-detecting particle sensor. Download the BlueAir App and you’ll be able to track air quality in your home in real time, control the air purifier remotely and even track filter usage so that you can order a new one when the time comes. It’s a simple, well-designed air purifier that performs exceptionally well, both in terms of energy usage and particle removal.  ... Show more
Get it now
$229 at Amazon
$230 at Blue Air
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best air purifier for pets
Blueair Blue Pure 511
Pros
Quiet
Fast cleaning
Low energy requirements
Lightweight and portable
Cons
Not good for large spaces
While different kinds of particulate matter are indistinguishable to the air purifier itself, according to the experts we spoke to, an important consideration for particles such as pet dander is energy draw, since that type of pollutant theoretically remains consistent in your home and necessitates constant use of an air purifier. “It's more on the consumer experience and user interaction, having it running all of the time, versus the fundamental scientific principle,” says Zhao, when it comes to what makes an air purifier most suitable for pets. The Blueair Blue Pure 511 air purifier is an effective model in its own right. In our particle-removal test, the Pure 511 cleared our smoke-contaminated test chamber air back to non-hazardous conditions in less than 20 minutes at its lowest fan setting. Every other small-size air purifier we tested took at least 35 minutes to clean the air in that same test. The Pure 511 led the way on the high setting too, clearing the room in a category-leading 7.5 minutes. Its low energy draw is the determining factor here, with among the lowest energy requirements of any air purifier, drawing just 0.0135 kilowatts per hour, even on its highest setting. Your best bet for larger spaces, regardless of pollutant type, is still either the Blueair Blue Pure 311i Max or Coway Airmega 400s above, but for a space such as a bedroom where your pets stay with you at night, the Blueair Blue Pure 511 is an ideal choice.  ... Show more
Get it now
$90 at Amazon
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best air purifier for viruses, bacteria and mold
Germ Guardian AC4300
Pros
UV-C light kills pathogens such as viruses, bacteria and mold
Good for small spaces
Budget-friendly
Cons
Air-cleaning performance was middle of the pack
Slightly higher energy draw
While a HEPA filter is an industry standard for air purification systems, an additional measure, a UV-C light, is specially equipped to handle pathogens such as viruses, bacteria and mold, and stop them from multiplying. “The best way to destroy pathogens is just to expose them to sunlight,” says Shahir Masri, associate specialist in air pollution exposure, assessment and epidemiology at UC Irvine Joe C. Wen School of Population & Public Health. “Air purifiers with a little UV light in there will do one extra task for you,” he said. “If you're specifically concerned about infectious diseases, that's what that's going to be for,” he adds. “It's a biology killer.” The Germ Guardian AC4300 had medium air-clearing performance among the air purifiers we tested, clearing 612 square feet in about an hour, with a median CADR (Clean Air Delivery Rate) between 99 and 116 depending on the particulate matter in question. It is suitable primarily for small spaces, with a slightly higher energy draw than those of a similar volume, but a lower running noise level. For those whose primary concern are pathogens such as viruses and bacteria, however, this is an effective model with a relatively small footprint and a modest price tag.  ... Show more
Get it now
$120 at Amazon
$173 at Walmart
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best air purifier for entire home
Coway Airmega 400s
Pros
Good for large spaces
Powerful
High CADR
Good value
Wi-Fi enabled
Cons
Large and bulky
Expensive
High energy requirements
Noisy on high setting
The Coway Airmega 400s is among the largest and most powerful air purifiers on the market, with a hefty price tag to match, but it is an excellent option to consider for larger, open spaces. Its sophisticated four layers of filtering can handle particulate matter as microscopic as .1 micron in size, has among the highest CADR of any available models, between 325 and 400 depending on the particulate matter, and it can clear a whopping 3,100 square feet of space in about an hour.Its functionality and features are on par with the Blueair Blue Pure 311i Max above, including an automatic mode that aids with particles such as smoke and seasonal allergens without running on high continuously. Its footprint, energy draw and price are all a more serious commitment, but it’s still a good value considering its expansive capabilities. For your money, you’re also getting all the bells and whistles: Wi-Fi capability allowing for voice or app control; smart, sleep, and eco settings; and real-time air quality monitoring.  ... Show more
Get it now
$366 at Amazon
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best budget choice and quietest air purifier
Levoit Core Mini
Pros
Super quiet
Low energy requirement
Affordable
Cons
Not the most powerful
Only good for small spaces
Most air purifiers run within a decibel range of 33 and 55, depending on the model and setting. For comparison, that’s the difference between a light rainfall -- easy to sleep through -- and a normal conversation volume -- less easy to sleep through. Noise might be a determining factor, then, if you’re looking to literally rest and breathe easy by running an air purifier in your bedroom. The quietest of the bunch is the Levoit Core Mini, whose tested volume was only 37.2 decibels, even on its highest setting. (Most other models demonstrated 44 decibels and above.)As a purifier, the Levoit Core Mini isn’t the most powerful, but is suitable for a small bedroom. It can clear 378 square feet in an hour, but only to a particle size of 0.3 microns. This is the industry requirement for HEPA filters, but many other models offer better outcomes. In addition to its extremely quiet running volume, however, it also has the lowest energy draw, at 0.0061 kilowatts per hour, the smallest footprint, and the smallest price tag, making it a reasonable investment if you’re looking to try out an air purifier in your bedroom or other small space.  ... Show more
Get it now
$50 at Amazon
$50 at Walmart
Air purifiers compared undefined
BlueAir 311i MaxBlueair Blue Pure 511Germ Guardian AC4300Coway Airmega 400sLevoit Core MiniFIlter Type Activated carbonActivated carbonHEPACarbon + HEPACarbon + HEPAFloor Area 1858 sq. ft.432 sq. ft.743 sq. ft.1560 sq. ft.337 sq. ft.Particle Retention Size 2.5 microns0.1 microns0.3 microns0.01 micron0.1 micronWeight 7.8 lb4.2 lb9.45 lb24.7 lb2.3 lbPrice $229$85$105$530$50
How we test air purifiers at CNET
To help inform our air purifier picks, we gathered 14 of the most popular models at the CNET Labs product testing facility in Louisville, Kentucky, where we put them through a rigorous set of tests. Our goal was to determine which air purifiers offered the best performance in terms of particle removal efficiency, energy consumption and quietness, while also evaluating their respective feature sets and value.The particle-removal testThe air we breathe isn't just air. In truth, it's a combination of human-generated and naturally occurring particles. The former is composed mostly of urban, industrial and automotive emissions of hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and combustion byproducts, and the latter is mostly represented by smoke from forest fires, sulfates, soot and matter from volcanic activity around the globe.
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNETAccording to the EPA, some of these microscopic solids and liquid droplets, which can be made up of hundreds of different chemicals, are so tiny that it's almost inevitable to inhale them. PM10 and PM2.5, which are particles of less than 10 and 2.5 micrometers in diameter, respectively, pose the greatest risk to human health since once inhaled. They allocate deep into the lungs and even into the bloodstream, impairing the proper functionality of the lungs and heart. "That's the size that can go into our body, into our lungs and go into our bloodstream," said Zhao. "That is the number one environmental risk factor globally. It kills about 6 to 7 million people a year," he said, due to cardiovascular or respiratory problems brought on by particulate pollutants.Our custom air purifier test chamber uses a clear-view front panel made of plexiglass and gloved hand access, which allows us to manipulate the air purifiers, a particle counter holder for our control device, two fans that ensure proper mixing of the air and smoke inside the chamber, vent ports that ensure there is a small amount of fresh air at all times, an ignition port to light up the smoke bombs from outside the rig, and an exhaust port that removes the remaining smoke safely from the chamber and the building after each test. The chamber is not hermetically sealed, but it's tight enough to ensure that no hazardous amount of smoke escapes to the surroundings. Our mission was to create an environment in which we exposed each air purifier unit to particle-saturated air of roughly the same concentration to assess how quickly and efficiently they get the air back to breathable conditions.We made custom smoke bombs, which are made of 50% potassium nitrate (KNO3), 40% sucrose (sugar) and 10% sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) and included a safety fuse for igniting it at a distance. The sugar acts as our fuel source, while the potassium nitrate acts as an oxidizing agent and the baking soda ensures that our dry mixture sustains a slow and even burn.
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNETUsing the Temtop PMD331 Particle Counter, we were able to verify that 5 grams of our smoke bomb dry mixture produces roughly between 590 million and 610 million particles per meter cubed. The device is able to count particles of different sizes, including PM2.5 and PM10, and it logs this data once every 15 seconds. Although we're able to count particles of different sizes individually, it's the total number of particles we care about, which is the sum of all particles of different sizes.
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNETWe prepared a 5-gram smoke bomb, which is ignited via the ignition port after installing the air purifier and ensuring proper sealing. Once the air in the chamber becomes particle-saturated (greater than 580 million particles/m3) we turn on the air purifier in question. The data extracted from the Temtop allows us to accurately track the impact that the air purifier has on the particle count in real time.
Gianmarco Chumbe and Ry Crist/CNET
Gianmarco Chumbe and Ry Crist/CNET
Gianmarco Chumbe and Ry Crist/CNETNoise level
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNETUsing a decibel meter, we measured how loud the air purifiers are at their low, medium and high fan settings. This is particularly important if you plan on having your air purifier on in your bedroom overnight and you don't want it to disrupt your sleep. We performed this test in our sound-enhancing studio to make sure that the decibel meter picked up only soundwave stimuli from the air purifiers, excluding other possible sources.
Gianmarco Chumbe and Ry Crist/CNETEnergy consumptionTo answer this question, we used a device called Kill-a-Watt and measured how much power each air purifier consumed at different fan settings. Knowing the energy draw for your air purifier could make a difference to your energy bill.
Other air purifiers we've tested
Kenmore Smart 2300E: This is a high-functioning, consistent, fast-acting option with a reasonable price tag for its size and operation, if you're specifically in the market for a large-room or whole-home air purifier with a moderate price tag. We preferred the Coway Airmega 400s, above, merely for its stated capacity to manage particles down to 0.1 micron in size.Levoit Core 400s: It's the most expensive medium-sized air purifier we tested but it offers great performance in all test categories. Features include Wi-Fi connectivity, voice control and the VeSync app, which allows you to monitor air quality and control the unit remotely. It's also compatible with Google Assistant and Alexa.Medify MA-25: The performance didn't justify the price of this unit. It struggled in our particle removal test and was the loudest of the small-sized air purifiers we tested. Kenmore 850e
(Update: currently unavailable): This unit offers decent particle removal efficiency thanks to its three-stage filtration system and sports a touchscreen display and dimmable night light. It wasn't quite as strong a performer as the Blueair Blue Pure 511, but is equally budget friendly.Coway Airmega AP-1512: Above-average performance overall. Sports a color-coded air quality indicator, eco-mode and filter alerts. It has an ionizer option that may enhance bacteria and virus removal, but is a feature that also has the potential for harmful by-products.CleanForce CP-Rainbow: I was impressed by the performance of this unit. It was the fastest air purifier at removing particles at the high fan setting, removing all smoke particles in just 1 minute and 45 seconds. It comes with app control and voice command, an HD LED display for air quality monitoring and color-coded indicators. It offers just a hair fewer features than other large air purifiers.EnviroKlenz Mobile UV: The highlight of this unit is that it comes with two UV-C bulbs to eliminate airborne bacteria and viruses. Other than that, it's quite large and heavy, sitting at 40 pounds. It took the longest to purify the air in our particle removal test, and it's quite expensive both to buy and operate.Veva 8000: Not a lot to highlight about this unit other than the low cost and the super quiet design. It was a bottom-of-the-pack performer in our particle removal test and in terms of energy efficiency as well. Why you don't see Dyson air purifiers on this list (yet)
Dyson's air purifiers are a bit different from the products on this best list in the sense that most of them are bladeless, while most air purifiers we tested have a conventional fan system. Dyson's TP04 air purifier, for example, includes an oscillating fan to help circulate clean air around larger rooms, an app with home air quality data and a small but nifty display. Dyson uses a HEPA filter, but provides no CADR in its specifications. "CADR as measured by some current methods is not an accurate representation of a real home," a Dyson spokesperson told us, and thus the company has developed its own testing procedures "to replicate a more realistic setting." That includes a testing room that has over double the footprint of AHAM's testing rooms, along with nine sensors placed around the space, versus AHAM's single sensor. The Dyson TP04, perhaps unsurprisingly, performs well according to Dyson's own metrics.We are in the process of reaching out to Dyson to test its latest air purifier models and we aim to see how it stands up against the others we've tested. If there's one thing we know for sure, Dyson products are usually on the pricier end, so if its air purifiers score well on our testing, the question will be: Is it worth the cost? More to come on that. Can air purifiers improve your health?
The air quality of your home is a significant determinant of your health. Exposure to indoor pollution can lead to health issues, such as respiratory diseases, stroke, lung cancers and COPD. According to the World Health Organization, there were an estimated 3.2 million deaths worldwide in 2020 stemming from household air pollution.Think of the sources of pollutants indoors as being divided into three categories: contaminants from human activities like smoking or cooking, pollutants from construction materials like asbestos, and biological sources like allergens and mold.Air purifiers can minimize the health effects of particles of all three categories by removing them from the air. An EPA research review suggests that air cleaners may also improve cardiovascular health. HEPA filters are the gold standard for reducing the concentration of indoor allergens because they can kill 99.97% of airborne particles that are 0.3 microns (µm). Health benefits of air purifiers:Air purifiers help reduce symptoms of seasonal allergiesLower your risk of getting sick with respiratory illnesses and other severe conditionsFilter smoke from homesNo device will fully filter out every harmful pollutant in your home. Allergic reactions from large particles or molds on surfaces can still happen. Portable air purifiers are also not intended to filter our nicotine or other gaseous pollutants. That's why it's best to use air purifiers as an additional way to clean the air in your home rather than the only one.Read more: It's Allergy Season: Here's Where to Put Your Air Purifier Who needs an air purifier?
Persistent allergy symptoms, visible smoke or pet hair, and lingering odors can indicate that you may benefit from an air purifier. Air purifiers are helpful even for minor pollutants such as cooking smoke, car exhaust, occasional dust and burning candles. "Families with young children, older adults, and individuals with chronic inflammation or immune sensitivities can also benefit from cleaner air," says Hyman.The cleaner air and increased airflow that air purifiers provide can potentially make a big difference in the quality of life (and breath) for anyone.People who should invest in an air purifier:Folks with existing respiratory issues: An air purifier can ease your symptoms if you have seasonal allergies, asthma or respiratory problems.People who have pets: According to the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, 6 out of 10 people are exposed to cat or dog dander. No matter how clean our pet is, the microscopic skin flakes your pet sheds can trigger allergy symptoms, including but not limited to itchy or watery eyes, runny nose, itchy throat, headaches, coughing or respiratory issues. The best air purifiers can help minimize the amount of particles floating around in the air.Those who often deal with smoke: Air purifiers can make a huge difference for those who live in areas often impacted by wildfire. The fine particulate matter from wildfire smoke is significantly more dangerous than air pollution from things like traffic or factor emissions. It's essential to have one in this situation. Hyman explains that long-term exposure can lead to wide-ranging health consequences like cardiovascular risks, cognitive decline, and metabolic issues, among others.Remember that while the best air purifiers can filter out particles in the air, they're only so effective in eliminating allergens and pollutants from your home. Once the particles have settled on surfaces, they must be reintroduced to their air for the air filter to clean them. Regular sweeping, vacuuming and dusting will ensure nothing that can hurt your health settles in your home.Read more: A Step-by-Step Guide to Installing Your Air Purifier Air purifier buying advice
Here's everything to consider when buying an air purifier.Coverage and sizeThe primary consideration in buying an air purifier for home use is how much square footage you need to cover. Trying to save money by getting a smaller air purifier than what you actually need will just give you disappointing results. Our picks for the best air purifiers all have high proficiency, so any one of them will effectively clean the air in your home, provided they're the correct size, placed appropriately and the filters and pre-filters are maintained accordingly. After room capacity, the amount of space the device itself takes up may be important to you as well. BudgetWhen considering your budget for an air purifier, you might also want to consider not only its purchase cost, but the cost of replacing the filter roughly every six months. Types of air purifiers
While this list consists only of air purifiers that include a HEPA air filter, which are the most available and highest-functioning models on the market, several of them use more than one type of filtration technology. To better understand those aspects of your air purifier, or if you want to consider buying another type of air purifier, here's a breakdown of all of the different methods of air purification technology:HEPA air purifiers: Standing for "high-efficiency particulate air," air purifiers with HEPA filters -- defined by the US Department of Energy as High Efficiency Particulate Air filters -- use a fiberglass filter that traps particles of a certain size out of the air. To be HEPA compliant, air filters must remove 99.97% of particles that are 0.3 microns in size and larger.
A HEPA filter can effectively remove smoke particulates from the air. Colin McDonald/CNETAir purifiers are small, household appliances that use one or more of a variety of technologies to filter particulate matter out of the air, including dust, allergen and viruses and recirculates cleaner air back into your living space. Air purifiers that have HEPA filters are the most popular type available, with many models employing other types of filters in addition to a HEPA filter. Activated carbon air purifiers: Where HEPA filters manage solid particles in the air, most of the air purifiers on this list also include activated carbon or activated charcoal technology, whose porous nature helps filter gasses or volatile organic compounds out of the air. Gasses in your home air typically present themselves as odors from pets, cigarettes or cooking.
Air quality is a real concern for many Southern California residents with smoke from wildfires and smog having been linked to numerous respiratory diseases. Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty ImagesNegative ion air purifiers: Ionic or negative ion air purifiers work by using high voltage to give an electrical charge to particles or molecules in the air, which causes them to clump together and seek out positively charged molecules with which to bond. Certain models that use this type of technology also include a positively charged collector plate that the ionized particles will stick to, taking them out of the air. (Without a collector plate, these particles are no longer circulating in the air, but may hang on surfaces to be cleaned or vacuumed out of your home.) Most models employing this technology don't use fans, which requires more time to filter the air in a room but also makes for extremely quiet conditions. Many experts caution against this type of air purifier, however. "Those kinds of filters essentially are not necessarily removing contaminants from the environment, but converting them to dust and surface contamination," says Masri. "And one of the issues with those is you can generate a byproduct, which is ozone. So you exchange one pollutant for another."UVGI air purifiers: "Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation" air purifiers are similar in mechanical function to HEPA air purifiers, in that they use fans to recirculate the air to purify it quickly. Inside the device, UVGI air purifiers rely on shielded ultraviolet light to neutralize dust and allergens. This type of technology isn't available in air purifiers for home use and is typically employed in larger systems available for public settings such as office buildings.
Air purifier FAQs
What is CADR?
CADR stands for Clean Air Delivery Rate, which is a measure of an air purifier’s ability to clean the air, measured in cubic feet per minute. According to the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, “the CADR of your air cleaner should be equal to at least two-thirds of the room’s area.” So, for example, a 10-foot by 12-foot room with an area of 120 cubic feet would require an air purifier with a CADR of 80.
What types of air purifiers do doctors recommend?
HEPA air purifiers, which represent the vast majority of those on the market, are the most capable of decreasing health risks associated with air pollutants because of their ability to filter particular matter down to a microscopic size that our mouths and noses can’t naturally filter. “That’s the gold standard that's used anywhere in hospitals, in surgery operation rooms and in airplanes,” according to Zhao. All HEPA filters can manage particles down to PM 0.3, with several models offering protection down to PM 0.1.
What is an air scrubber?
An air scrubber is “a very, very powerful, industry-level air purifier,” said Zhao, which is the kind of large device that is used in “factories, hospitals, warehouses, or military settings.” Air scrubbers use technologies similar to those of home air purifiers, but on an industrial scale and are often built into ventilation systems. UV-C light is often used for germicidal purposes in an air scrubber.
Do air purifiers increase or decrease oxygen in the room?
Air purifiers don't affect the level of oxygen in the room in any way. Your air purifier is recirculating the air already in the room and cleaning it by passing it through a filter where microscopic, solid particles are removed. It is neither removing or adding additional oxygen into the space. Air purifiers are also not the same as freestanding air conditioners, although the increased airflow from an air purifier may make the air in your home appreciably cooler.
How often do I need to change air purifier filters?
How often you change your air purifier filter will depend on a few things, including how much you use your machine. It’s recommended that you change your air purifier filter at least every 6 to 12 months.However, you may end up needing to change your filter more if you notice signs of clogging, an excessive amount of dirt buildup, reduced airflow or poor performance. Some air purifiers have a light indicator that’ll let you know when you need a new filter. Others may send a notification directly to your phone via its companion app.
Where should I put an air purifier?
Depending on its design, an air purifier should be placed as centrally in a room as possible, to make sure that all access points of the purifier are open to receiving air. Some circular models have 360-degree functionality, while others may only be collecting air from particular faces of the device. In either case, an air purifier shouldn’t be placed directly against a wall and should allow for at least several inches of clearance. Placing it near doorways and vents that are also creating airflow may help with your air purifier's efficiency.
Can air purifiers help with allergies?
Studies have shown that air purifiers can significantly improve allergy and asthma symptoms. That said, they can only be so effective. Keeping your environment clean is also essential because once the allergens settle on surfaces, your air purifier cannot filter them out. They need to be reintroduced to the air through activities like sweeping, dusting or vacuuming for the air purifier to help. Tips for effective air purifier use
For maximum air purifier efficiency, it's important to isolate the air purifier within a defined space, which can be more difficult to do in open floor plans. For the best efficiency both in terms of clean air and energy uses, also keep windows closed when using an air purifier.
About the Author
Gianmarco Chumbe
Gianmarco Chumbe
Laboratory Technical Project Manager Gianmarco Chumbe has been part of the CNET Home team since 2018. He is in charge of developing and carrying out testing procedures for a wide variety of home appliances and smart devices including robot vacuums, smoke/CO detectors and air conditioning units.
He takes a data-driven and creative approach to every project he is involved in, honoring his background in Science and Engineering.
Read full bio
Also written by
Pamela Vachon Contributor
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.