Want to Avoid Microplastics in Food? We Found the 8 Most Common Foods That Contain Microplastics - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our wellness advice is expert-vetted. Our top picks are based on our editors’ independent research, analysis, and hands-on testing. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Wellness Nutrition
8 Foods You Eat Daily That You Didn't Know Are Probably Filled With Microplastics
A doctor shares how to limit your exposure to microplastics in food.
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
Taylor Leamey
Sept. 17, 2025
7:19 a.m. PT 7 min read
Cutting single-use plastic containers and utensils also lowers your long-term exposure. Javier Zayas Photography/Getty Images
Whether it's in food storage or kitchen tools, microplastics are everywhere in our kitchens -- and, unfortunately, that includes in the food we eat. In fact, it's been estimated that Americans consume between 39,000 and 52,000 microplastic particles annually. They come from our environment, food packaging or additives that make their way into our diets. To find out which foods are most likely to contain microplastics, and how they affect our health, we spoke with a family physician. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.Best Cookware Sets
See at Cnet
How many microplastics are too many?"There is no officially established 'safe' or 'unsafe' level of microplastic intake. It makes sense to want your exposure to be as low as possible," Dr. Joseph Mercola, a board-certified family medicine osteopathic physician, said in an email.  Microplastics can enter our food because of contamination where the food was grown, raised or processed. Mercola explained that using plastic mulch and plastic seed coatings in agriculture, and irrigation with contaminated water, are among the various ways microplastics can end up in food. Plastic packaging, utensils and containers are additional sources.  According to the US Food and Drug Administration, current evidence doesn't suggest that the levels of microplastics in food are a risk to us. However, you still might want to minimize how much microplastics you passively consume. These are the most common foods that contain microplastics, and the measures you can adopt to reduce your plastic intake.
Top 8 foods in your diet that contain microplastics 1. Seafood One of the most significant ways plastic particles end up in our food is through single-use plastics that break down and find their way into waterways and soil. When they reach the oceans, they end up in our seafood. "Microplastics are then taken up by plankton and mistaken for food by fish and shellfish," Mercola said. "The tiny particles accumulate in the flesh ... then end up on our plates." A recent study published by Portland State University discovered a variety of microplastics in 180 out of 182 tested seafood samples. Microfibers are the most common type of microplastic present, but this isn't the only type that ends up in our oceans. How to avoid it: While you can't control how many microplastics your fish ate before it got to your plate, you can reduce the amount of filter feeders and bottom feeders you choose to eat (e.g., clams, mussels, oysters, catfish, halibut, flounder and cod). These types of seafood are exposed to higher amounts of microplastics. Also, choose seafood at the store that uses sustainable packaging, not plastic wrap.
Kinga Krzeminska/Getty Images2. Tea bags Polypropylene is often used to make tea bags, and even if you choose paper tea bags, they can still contain microplastics. The issue is that when the bags contact hot water, microplastics may be released into your tea.  Researchers at the Autonomous University of Barcelona discovered that polypropylene tea bags can release plastic particles in the billions, and nylon and cellulose tea bags can release them in the millions. How to avoid it: You don't have to stop drinking tea. Switch to loose-leaf tea and invest in a stainless steel diffuser to enjoy your tea free of microplastics. 3. Rice Rice is also a hotspot for microplastics. A University of Queensland study found that for every half cup of rice, there are 3 to 4 milligrams of plastic. If you use instant rice packets, that number is four times higher, at 13 milligrams. How to avoid it: The study found that washing your rice can reduce plastic contamination by 20% to 40%, though it's worth noting that the study used filtered water for rinsing. 4. Salt and sugar When you top off your dinner with a sprinkling of salt, you're getting an unintentional side of microplastics. It's hard to outrun salt. It's in almost everything we eat and our bodies need a certain amount of sodium to keep our fluids and electrolytes balanced. One study found that 90% of the 39 sampled salt brands worldwide contained microplastics. This likely results from environmental contamination and the production and packaging process, which includes plastic. Microplastics have also been found in sugar. How to avoid it: To reduce your exposure to microplastics in your salt and sugar, you can buy them packaged in glass or cardboard.
Yuliia Kokosha/Getty Images5. Bottled water Bottled water is one of the most well-known sources of micro and nanoplastics. One study estimated that there are about 240,000 plastic particulates in a liter of bottled water. Most plastic water bottles you buy at the store are made from polyethylene terephthalate, or PET, plastic, so it wasn't surprising to see it represented. Plastic particles break apart when bottles are squeezed or exposed to heat. And PET plastic isn't the only type of nanoplastic researchers have found in plastic water bottles. How to avoid it: Drinking tap water from a stainless steel or glass container can reduce your risk of ingesting plastic particles. Klean Kanteen Insulated Water Bottle
$33 at Kleankanteen
6. Honey You might not expect your honey to harbor microplastics, but it does, even if it's in a glass jar. Microplastic fibers can be traced back to bees and pollution. One study exploring whether microplastics ingested or carried by honeybees were then incorporated into hives found that bees can continue the dispersal of microplastics through honey. How to avoid it: Buying honey from local beekeepers who often use more natural and sustainable harvesting methods may reduce the risk of microplastic contamination. 7. Fruits and veggies Vegetables and fruits are an essential part of a balanced diet. They can also contain microplastics. One study that sampled fruit and vegetables found that apples were the most contaminated fruit and carrots were the most contaminated vegetable. How does this happen? "Plants have been shown to uptake micro- and nanoplastics from soil through their root systems, contaminating the edible portions," Mercola said. Many grocery stores also package fruit and vegetables in plastic to keep them fresh. According to the FDA, there isn't enough evidence to determine that microplastics from plastic food packaging migrate into food. But Mercola suggests you avoid it as much as you can anyway. How to avoid it: Wash your fruit thoroughly, peel when possible and choose local or organic produce.
Animaflora/Getty Images8. Proteins A recent study from researchers at the Ocean Conservancy found that 88% of vegetable and animal proteins contain some level of microplastics. But highly processed proteins, like plant-based alternatives, fish sticks or chicken nuggets, harbor the most microplastics, suggesting the microplastic contamination partly comes from food processing. The study found that breaded shrimp had an average of 300 microplastic pieces per serving. Plant-based nuggets had 100 pieces per serving. Food processing isn't the only way microplastics can get into these protein sources. Microplastics are in animal feeds and in the environments where animals are raised. Plant-based alternatives can be contaminated through the soil or irrigation.  How to avoid it: After reading that, you may wonder what protein you should eat. The reality is that more research is needed to know the exact levels and their impact on our health. Our bodies need protein to function, so getting enough is important, regardless of your chosen source. Read more: An Easy Protein Visual Guide to Help You Reach Maximum Muscle Gains What do microplastics in food mean for you? So, do all foods contain microplastics? I can't say for sure. I can tell you, however, that more research is needed to understand just how eating foods with microplastics affects us. Still, although the long-term health effects remain under investigation, microplastics are something to watch out for and guard against if you can, as Mercola explained. "Ingested microplastics have been found to accumulate in the circulatory system and various organs, including the brain, where they can cause inflammation and tissue damage," Mercola said. Other potential side effects are hormonal imbalances caused by the endocrine-disrupting chemicals found in plastics. Microplastics can also absorb other environmental toxins and introduce them into the body. There's no established safe level of microplastics and we can't completely outrun them: They're everywhere and in everything. But it's a good idea to minimize exposure where you can. Expert tips for reducing your intake of microplasticsYou can cut down by following this advice:1. Be careful how much shellfish you eatShellfish like mussels, oysters and scallops have higher levels of microplastics, so don't overdo it.2. Avoid food-storage containers made of plasticThis is one of Mercola's biggest suggestions because of the "plasticizing chemicals" in plastic. BPA and phthalates are endocrine-disrupting chemicals that can transfer from plastic to food. They're fat-soluble, so this happens most easily with fatty foods. It's best to store foods with fat in glass containers, but you can store dry foods in plastic if you need to. 3. Avoid plastic-wrapped foodsThis can be easier said than done but it's something to strive for in areas where you can switch. 4. Get rid of plastic kitchen utensilsFrom the spoons we use to stir our sauces to the cutting boards we use to chop our vegetables, if they're plastic, you're ingesting microplastics. A good rule of thumb is: Anything plastic that comes in contact with your food should be swapped out for ceramic, glass, stainless steel or wood.To help address the overall issue of microplastics, you can install a filter in your clothes-washing machine. If you can afford it, a special filter will catch microfibers before they pollute water systems. The PlanetCare 2.0 microfiber filter starts at $125. We still have a lot to learn about microplastics and their long-term implications for our health when ingested. It might be hard to hear they're in so many of our foods but that shouldn't deter you from eating well. A balanced diet of protein, fruit and vegetables will ensure your body has enough fuel to function and thrive -- microplastics or not.Is there a water filter that removes microplastics?While there is a wide variety of water filters on the market, Lifestraw is one of the few brands that targets microplastics in drinking water. The brand claims that its membrane microfilter removes 99.999% of microplastics as well as well as bacteria and parasites. If you're looking for a water filter that will remove microplastics, look for water filter pitchers and bottles that specifically mention microplastics or choose a whole-home water filtration system.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Nutrition Guides
Meal Delivery
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Hungryroot Review
EveryPlate Review
Best Vegan Meal Delivery Service
Best Vegetarian Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Best Grocery Delivery Service
Fresh N Lean Review
Blue Apron vs. Hello Fresh
Dieting Program Guides
Best Weight Loss Programs
Optavia Diet Review
Noom Diet Review
Nutrisystem Diet Review
Weight Watchers Diet Review
Noom vs. Weight Watchers
Vitamin and Supplement Guides
Best Multivitamins
Best Multivitamins for Men
Best Multivitamins for Women
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Probiotics
Best Supplements to Gain Weight
Best Vitamin Subscription
Best Vitamins for Energy
Best Vitamins and Supplements for Joint Health
Best Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.