Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans — Chinese e-commerce giant is prioritizing AI with plans for global expansion | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
GPUs
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
Semiconductors
Chinese giant Tencent announces domestic AI chip push
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia to resume H20 sales in China
Artificial Intelligence
Chinese companies allegedly smuggled in $1bn worth of Nvidia AI chips in the last three months, despite increasing export controls
GPUs
China plans 39 AI data centers with 115,000 restricted Nvidia Hopper GPUs
GPUs
Nvidia responds to claim China is urging local companies to avoid Nvidia H20
GPUs
Nvidia says H20 export controls didn’t stop China’s AI progress
GPUs
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's next-gen AI chip could double the price of H20 if China export is approved
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia responds to reports that H20 is ending production
Artificial Intelligence
Top China silicon figure calls on country to stop using Nvidia GPUs for AI
Artificial Intelligence
China forms AI alliances to cut U.S. tech reliance
Tech Industry
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
Tech Industry
China accuses Nvidia of anti-monopoly law violations, raising prospect of heavy fines
Tech Industry
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Tech Industry
Artificial Intelligence
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans — Chinese e-commerce giant is prioritizing AI with plans for global expansion
News
By
Jowi Morales
published
24 September 2025
This partnership comes despite Beijing's directive to stop purchasing Nvidia's H20 and RTX Pro 6000D chips.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Alibaba Cloud)
Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba announced that it’s partnering with Nvidia to fuel its data center expansion across the globe and the introduction of new AI products. Reuters reports that the company is now prioritizing artificial intelligence as part of its core business, which will put it on par with the company’s online retail and wholesale business that made it the tech giant it is today. The announcement seems to imply a direct contravention of Beijing’s directive that bans its biggest tech companies from acquiring Nvidia chips, so it’s unclear if this partnership includes the purchase of AI GPUs.According to Alibaba Cloud, the company’s Platform for AI (PAI) will integrate the “full suite of the Nvidia Physical AI software stack," so it technically may not violate the order to buy homegrown AI processors. The company already reportedly has its AI chip that competes with Nvidia’s own H20, and it has even created its own High Performance Network using Ethernet to replace Nvidia's interconnect technology.However, it seems that Alibaba is ready to work with Nvidia to create a cloud-based system design to advance AI capabilities in real-world applications. “The speed of AI industry development has far exceeded our expectations, and the industry’s demand for AI infrastructure has also far exceeded our expectations,” said Alibaba CEO Eddie Wu during the annual Aspara Conference. Alibaba also unveiled plans to build data centers in Brazil, France, and the Netherlands in the coming year. It will also add more of the same in Mexico, South Korea, Japan, Malaysia, and Dubai — also in the coming year. Alibaba Cloud Intelligence Group SVP Dr. Feifei Li remarked that “AI is revolutionizing not only technology, but also the very foundation of how enterprises deliver business value and drive growth. Our strategic expansion of global infrastructure is designed to cater for the accelerating demand from forward-thinking customers.” But despite all these plans, the company did not mention whether it will use Nvidia’s AI chips for these projects. This move to increase Alibaba’s footprint abroad will help the company influence the development of AI technology across the globe. It might even be the start of what Jensen Huang has been warning about — that the limitation of the sales of Nvidia chips will allow its competitors to gain a foothold in the international market and reduce the U.S.’s competitive advantage. Of course, its software partnership with Alibaba helps ensure that Nvidia is still involved with this massive project — unless Washington, D.C. or Beijing steps in as part of their chip rivalry and stops the deal from moving forward.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
You may like
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
Chinese giant Tencent announces domestic AI chip push
Nvidia to resume H20 sales in China
See all comments (1)
Jowi MoralesSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterJowi Morales is a tech enthusiast with years of experience working in the industry. He’s been writing with several tech publications since 2021, where he’s been interested in tech hardware and consumer electronics.
Read more
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
Chinese giant Tencent announces domestic AI chip push
Nvidia to resume H20 sales in China
Chinese companies allegedly smuggled in $1bn worth of Nvidia AI chips in the last three months, despite increasing export controls
China plans 39 AI data centers with 115,000 restricted Nvidia Hopper GPUs
Nvidia responds to claim China is urging local companies to avoid Nvidia H20
Latest in Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
OpenAI makes flurry of deals in drive towards for-profit model
China is converting farmland into data centers as part of $37 billion effort to centralize AI compute power
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
Microsoft announces 'world's most powerful' AI data center
China foes get worse results using DeepSeek, research suggests
Latest in News
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
watzupken
Person who made the deal failed to receive the notice from their government. This will likely have some repercussions.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.