Best Pillow for Every Sleeper in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Bed Accessories
The Best Pillows, Tested and Approved by CNET’s Sleep Experts
CNET's sleep experts have tested over 35 pillows over the years. Here are their top picks for the best pillows for you, whether you're a back, side, stomach or combination sleeper.
Caroline Igo Former Editor, Sleep Caroline Igo (she/her/hers) was a wellness editor at CNET and holds Sleep Science Coach and Stress Management certificates from the Spencer Institute. She received her bachelor's degree in creative writing from Miami University and continues to further her craft in her free time. Before joining CNET, Caroline wrote for past CNN anchor, Daryn Kagan. Expertise Sleep | Mattress Accessories | Vitamins and Supplements | Nutrition | Personal care Credentials Carl R. Greer/Andrew D. Hepburn Award for Best Nonfiction Essay (Miami University, 2020)
See full bio
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking. Expertise Smart home technology | Wireless connectivity Credentials 10 years product testing experience with the CNET Home team
See full bio
Caroline Igo
,
Ry Crist
July 11, 2025
10:00 a.m. PT 13 min read
Sleep Number ComfortFit Pillow Ultimate Best overall pillow
$100 at Sleep Number
Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology Best cooling pillow
$179 at Amazon
Coop Eden Cool Plus Pillow Best pillow for back sleepers
$149 $145 at Amazon
Purple Harmony Pillow Best pillow for side sleepers
$209 at Amazon
Parachute Down Alternative Pillow Best pillow for stomach sleepers
$80 at Parachute Home
Pluto Pillow Best pillow for neck pain
$135 at Pluto Pillow
Cosy House Bamboo Pillow Best budget pillow
$55 at Amazon
Buffy Wiggle Pillow Best lounging pillow
$87 at Buffy
Show more (3 items)
Table of Contents
The Best Pillows, Tested and Approved by CNET’s Sleep Experts
What is the best overall pillow?
Best pillows of 2025
Other pillows worth considering
How we tested the best pillow
Factors to consider when choosing the best pillow
If you're not getting enough sleep or if your sleep quality seems low, there may be a few factors to blame. A better mattress may be the answer to your sleep woes, but a great pillow could also make a world of difference. You need to consider several factors to find the best pillow for your needs, including your sleeping position and your budget. Our sleep experts have five-plus years of hands-on (and heads-on) pillow testing, which we combined with brand and material knowledge, weeks of nightly testing and customer reviews to pick the best pillows for every sleeper. Whether you’re a side sleeper, hot sleeper, back sleeper, on a budget or have neck pain, we have a pillow for you.What is the best overall pillow?
Sleep NumberOur thorough testing concluded that the Sleep Number ComfortFit Pillow Ultimate is the best overall pillow. It includes three removable inserts that make the adjustable pillow comfortable for side, back, stomach and combination sleepers. The Sleep Number pillow is also hypoallergenic and made of memory foam and down-alternative fibers. While the price tag is hefty, look out for Sleep Number sales. What We Updated: July 2025We added direct recommendations in each listicle and a comparison table. Products on this list stayed the same.Best pillows of 2025
Editors' choice
Nasha Addarich Martinez/CNET
Sleep Number ComfortFit Pillow Ultimate
Best overall pillow
$100 at Sleep Number
Why we like it: The Sleep Number Comfortfit Pillow Ultimate is an ultra-comfy pillow suitable for all sleeping positions. That's why it's our pick for the best overall pillow. With your choice of classic, curved or ultimate shape, it's the type of pillow everyone will love. It's also one of the best hypoallergenic pillows, with memory foam and premium down-alternative fibers on the inside. The cover is noticeably soft and breathable when you lie down on the Sleep Number Comfortfit Pillow. Who it's best for: What makes the Sleep Number Comfortfit Ultimate pillow unique is its three removable inserts, letting you tailor it to your needs. This makes the pillow ideal for all sleeping positions, especially those who aren’t sure what loft (pillow height) they prefer or need. Side sleepers should use two inserts; back sleepers are best suited with two or three inserts; and stomach sleepers should try one or two.Who shouldn’t get it: It is a more expensive pillow, coming in at about $100. I wouldn’t recommend this pillow to someone on a budget or someone who needs more than one pillow for their bed. Firmness: AdjustableMaterials: Memory foamMachine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: Not specified Loft: CustomizablePros:High quality and personalization -- it may be the only pillow you need on your bedSuitable for all sleeper typesMade of quality materials, including memory foamCons:Expensive pillowNot cooling
$100 at Sleep Number
Caroline Igo/CNET
Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology
Best cooling pillow
$179 at Amazon
$179 at Target
Why we like it: From the popular mattress brand Casper, this cooling pillow is made with perforated poly foam, polyester fibers and gel. It utilizes what Casper calls Snow Technology, which includes phase change material that remains temperature-neutral around your head and neck and allows for airflow. This pillow has the best qualities of a solid memory foam pillow while adding comfortable cooling.Who it's best for: Unlike other “cooling” pillows, the Casper Hybrid is actually cool to the touch. When you put your head on it, it immediately feels cool. If you're a hot sleeper -- or someone who cherishes the cold side of the pillow -- consider this product. We also recommend using a light and breathable pillowcase, such as silk, bamboo or Tencel.  Who shouldn’t get it: I’m a combination sleeper and mostly sleep on my stomach, and when testing this pillow on my stomach, it did hurt my neck. It isn’t low enough for strict stomach sleepers.Firmness: MediumMaterials: Polyfoam Machine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: Not specifiedLoft: MediumPros:Truly cool to the touchSoft, machine-washable cover Four layers of foam, fiber and gel with Snow Technology Cons:On the expensive sideNot for stomach sleepers or those who don't like foam
$179 at Amazon
$179 at Target
Editors' choice
Caroline Igo/CNET
Coop Eden Cool Plus Pillow
Best pillow for back sleepers
$145 at Amazon
$145 at Walmart
Why we like it: You may have heard of The Coop Sleep Eden Pillow, which often tops lists of the best pillows. If you thought that version was cool, it got even better. The Coop Eden Cool Plus Pillow is the new version of the Eden Pillow. It still has a similar cool-to-the-touch cover but now has a heat-wicking inner liner, a gel layer and shredded gel-infused memory foam, which is great for hot sleepers. The filling is Greenguard Gold and CertiPur-US certified.Who it's best for:This pillow is also adjustable, making it ideal for all sleeping positions and those who aren’t sure which firmness and loft they prefer. It comes with extra filling and an option to pull the filling out. I like that the memory foam contours and lets you sink a little into the pillow, regardless of how much you fill it. Back sleepers, especially, will feel fully supported with this pillow. Who shouldn’t get it: If you prefer sturdy, thick or firmer pillows, a full memory foam pillow may be better for you. If you don’t enjoy sinking into the pillow, you will want to avoid shredded memory foam like Coop.Firmness: AdjustableMaterials: Shredded memory foamMachine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: YesLoft: CustomizablePros:Greenguard Gold and CertiPur-US certifiedCool to the touch and doesn't absorb heatCan adjust the firmness to your likingCons:Stomach sleepers will need to take out almost all the fillingNot for those who don't like to sink a little into pillows
$145 at Amazon
$145 at Walmart
Editors' choice
Caroline Igo/CNET
Purple Harmony Pillow
Best pillow for side sleepers
$209 at Amazon
$199 at Purple
Why we like it: Like the Purple Mattress, the Purple Pillow uses a unique, one-piece polymer grid to cradle your head and neck as you sleep. The grid distributes weight well and doesn't absorb heat like foam can, so fans say it stays extra cool and cozy at night. Thanks to its construction and loft, the Purple Harmony Pillow is the best pillow for side sleepers. Who it's best for: I recommend the Purple Harmony Pillow to all the hot sleepers I know. Instead of filling the entire interior, the cushy polymer grid lines the microfiber outer case and surrounds a thick, spongy latex core.The mostly hollow grid and moisture-wicking microfiber case significantly improve airflow and keep things cool by creating some separation between your head and the latex. Best of all, there are three heights to choose from for all sleeper types.Who shouldn’t get it: This pillow has a springy, rubbery quality that may lift your neck a little too much if you prefer sinking more into your pillow. Also, as the most expensive on the list (starting at $199), it isn’t for ones with strict budgets.Firmness: MediumMaterials: Hyper-elastic polymer grid and Talalay latex Machine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: YesLoft: Available in three heightsPros:Bouncy feel and unique honeycombed-pattern grid Cool to the touch and doesn't absorb heatSoft, washable cover Cons:The hyper-elastic polymer grid isn't for everyoneMost expensive on this list
$209 at Amazon
$199 at Purple
Editors' choice
Caroline Igo/CNET
Parachute Down Alternative Pillow
Best pillow for stomach sleepers
$80 at Parachute Home
Why we like it: Available in comfortable soft, medium and firm densities, the Parachute Down Alternative Pillow is our pick for the best pillow for stomach sleepers. This pillow is filled with superfine microfiber that emulates all the great qualities of the best down pillow, just without the allergies. It's a pretty standard pillow that's flat enough so stomach sleepers can sleep comfortably without waking up with a sore neck.Who it's best for: The pillow is available in a low loft, making it ideal for stomach sleepers, keeping the spine aligned through the night. However, the medium and tall lofts are also suitable for side and back sleepers thanks to their lightweight feel and down-like "squishiness." It’s great for down pillow lovers, as it can be fluffed into a comfortable shape for each sleeping position. Who shouldn’t get it: Down-like filling can be pretty warm, so I don’t recommend this pillow to hot sleepers. It’s also not for those who don’t like to fluff up their pillows often to maintain the right firmness and loft.Firmness: Soft, medium or firmMaterials: MicrofiberMachine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: YesLoft: Multiple optionsPros:Three firmness options are available Hypoallergenic thanks to its microfiber fillSuitable for all sleeper typesCons:Might be too flat for those who like a lofty pillowNot for those who don't like down pillows
$80 at Parachute Home
Caroline Igo/CNET
Pluto Pillow
Best pillow for neck pain
$135 at Pluto Pillow
Why we like it: If you have neck pain, sleeping on a supportive pillow that keeps your spine properly aligned is essential. Pillows that are too lofty or flat can cause further discomfort and worsen your pain. That's where the Pluto Pillow comes in. Thanks to its hybrid construction, supportive foam and personalization options, this is our pick for the best pillow to alleviate neck pain.Who it's best for: The Pluto Pillow can work for every sleeping position and body type thanks to its unique built-to-order process. All you have to do is take Pluto's quiz about your sleeping habits and preferences and Pluto will propose a pillow built specifically for you and your needs. I tested a thinner Pluto Pillow because I switch between sleeping on my stomach and side. I still woke up feeling that the pillow properly supported my neck throughout the night.Who shouldn’t get it: Pluto doesn’t currently offer down, down alternative or shredded memory foam pillows. There are only hybrids of solid foam and fibers. If you're looking for something different, I recommend checking the pillows above.Firmness: PersonalizedMaterials: Hybrid (foam and down-alternative fibers)Machine-washable?: NoHypoallergenic?: YesLoft: CustomizablePros:Built-to-order customizationSupportive hybrid design Great for all sleeper typesCons:Not for those who prefer down and latex materialsOn the expensive side
$135 at Pluto Pillow
Cosy House Collection
Cosy House Bamboo Pillow
Best budget pillow
$55 at Amazon
Why we like it: With two layers of supportive foam and an antibacterial, cooling bamboo case, Cosy House's shredded foam pillows are made to relieve some sleeping woes: overheating and uncomfortable pressure points. The relatively firm construction helps the pillow maintain its shape while sleeping, but the shredded memory foam pillow fill in its bottommost layer is removable, which allows you to customize its density. This isn't the case with most solid foam pillows. Its affordable price makes it one of the best budget pillows you can buy. Who it's best for: Since this pillow is adjustable, it’s suitable for all sleeping positions. In experience, like with most of the adjustable pillows I tested, I ended up adjusting down. Once I did, the pillow's spongy foam felt soft and supportive. I recommend this pillow for those looking for more give. I also appreciated the ultrasoft, machine-washable quilted bamboo cover, which naturally resists allergens and dust mite issues. Between that and the cozy, adjustable fill, this pillow feels like a great value for someone on a budget.Who shouldn’t get it: It’s a heavy pillow, and you may have to keep removing fill until you find it’s just right. However, when filled to capacity, it may be too big and firm for back sleepers or some side sleepers. Additionally, stomach sleepers could find it too lumpy.  Firmness: AdjustableMaterials: Shredded memory foamMachine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: YesLoft: CustomizablePros:Cooling bamboo cover Antibacterial and hypoallergenic Supportive and spongy shredded memory foamCons:Stomach sleepers might find the pillow too lumpyHeavy pillow
$55 at Amazon
Buffy
Buffy Wiggle Pillow
Best lounging pillow
$87 at Buffy
Why we like it: This 8-by-82-inch floppy, long pillow is made of eucalyptus lyocell fabric and is covered in soft sherpa. The filling inside the Wiggle Pillow is made of spun, recycled plastic pieces, with each pillow being filled with about 55 recycled plastic water bottles. In addition to being Earth-friendly, the pillow is cruelty-free and BPA-free. I have my Wiggle Pillow on my couch, and I love how it elevates the simple design as a decorative pillow and ups my overall comfort at night. Who it's best for: If you're looking for a supportive, fun throw pillow for your couch or bed, the Buffy Wiggle Pillow is it. This long pillow is great for lounging, snuggling and pregnancy. It can be tied in a knot, used for extra support at night or as a body pillow.Who shouldn’t get it: This pillow is already a bit expensive at $109, and the soft cover is sold separately (an extra $95). The cover is one of the best parts of this pillow, so if you aren’t ready to shell out over $200, you may want to look for other decorative pillows.Firmness: MediumMaterials: TENCEL lyocell fiberMachine-washable?: Cover onlyHypoallergenic?: YesLoft: N/APros:Can be used on a bed or a couch Filling is made from 55 recycled plastic water bottles Supportive and comes with a soft coverCons:The cover is a separate expense On the expensive side
$87 at Buffy
Other pillows worth consideringWe haven't tested the following pillows yet, but with strong reviews and good company track records, they're worth a look as you shop around.Brooklinen Down Alternative PillowNot only is this plush pillow vegan and allergen-free, but it also has the longest trial period (365 days) of any product on this list. If you take a while to adjust to a change or just believe that a pillow must be "broken in" to show its true strengths, you have plenty of time to make your final decision. If you aren't a firm pillow fanatic, that extra-long trial period may come in handy.According to my testing, this pillow may be a little too firm. Other reviewers have stated that their pillows softened up after a few weeks of use, while self-described side-sleepers said they took to the pillow's firmness right away.Brooklinen Down Alternative Pillow
$47 at Brooklinen
DreamNorth PillowSold on Amazon in packs of two with a machine-washable pillow cover, DreamNorth's soft pillows are easily the most cost-effective choice on this list. Their breathability, down-free fluffiness and supportive gel pillow fiber fill could keep them from feeling "cheap." Described as "ultrasoft," this softer pillow option is probably not the right choice if you're looking for something particularly firm, but its softness may make its ability to retain its shape more impressive."They came vacuum-sealed and squished flat, but as soon as you take it out of the package, they fluff up like marshmallows and stay that way. I've only noticed some slight, very slight flattening in the four months I've had them," one reviewer wrote. Others noted the pillows' fluffiness but added that they didn't have to sacrifice any amount of neck support for how soft they were, either: "I highly recommend these pillows if you are [prone] to waking up with neck aches or headaches because the pillow conforms nicely to give you the support you need while being soft enough to make you comfortable."DreamNorth Pillow
$28 at Amazon
The Luxe PillowRight there in the name, the $129 Luxe Pillow is filled with high-quality, sustainably sourced goose down and waterfowl feathers for what is is undoubtedly luxurious. Where the goose down offers fluff, the waterfowl feathers provide support, and both materials are hypoallergenic and Responsible Down Standard-certified. This combination means the pillows are made with any sleeping position in mind, which some customers have put to the test. "I love this pillow," one reviewer wrote. "It helps me sleep in any position, on my back, stomach or side."The Luxe Pillow
$129 at Luxe Pillow
Snowe Down Alternative PillowSnowe's down alternative offering is also a hypoallergenic pillow that is ultra plush. It's available in three density options and comes with a washable sateen cover. According to an enthusiastic reviewer, the down alternative filling is beyond convincing in how it replicates the feel of a regular down pillow: "The alternative down used in these pillows is like magic. Maximum compression but they always puff back up. Auto-fluffing pillows!"Snowe's site helpfully notes that the softer version will be more comfortable for stomach sleepers, while side sleepers will often prefer something firmer for a good night's rest. Snowe Down Alternative Pillow
$65 at Snowehome
Best pillows compared
BrandFirmnessMaterial(s)Machine-washable?Hypoallergenic?LoftSizesPrice Sleep Number Comfortfit Pillow Ultimate AdjustableMemory foamCover onlyNot specificedCustomizableStandard, King$100Casper Hybrid with Snow Technology MediumPolyfoam, polyester fibers and gelCover onlyNot specificedMediumStandard, King$149Cosy House Bamboo Pillow AdjustableShredded memory foamCover onlyNot specificedCustomizableStandard/Queen, King$55Coop Eden Cool Plus AdjustableShredded memory foamCover onlyYesCustomizableQueen, King$160Purple Harmony MediumHyper-elastic polymer grid and Talalay latex Cover onlyYesAvailable in three heightsStandard, King$199Parachute Down Alternative Soft, medium or firmMicrofiberCover onlyYesMultiple optionsStandard, King$80Pluto Pillow PersonalizedHybrid (foam and down-alternative fibers)NoYesCustomizableStandard, King$135Buffy Wiggle Pillow MediumTENCEL lyocell fiberCover onlyYesN/AStandard$109
How we tested the best pillow
Caroline Igo/CNETOur team of experts tested these pillows the only way you can: by sleeping on them. When testing the best pillows, we kept in mind important factors like feel, firmness, comfort, breathability, filling, cover materials and performance. We looked for pillows that had accommodating designs, unique features and supportive profiles. We tested the pillows from every sleeping style, ensuring that we can confidently recommend the best pillow for everyone. The team measured the loft or height to determine the sleeping positions a pillow suits best and deconstructed the pillows to test the inside filling. Additionally, pillows were compared by price, adjustability and trial length.
Caroline Igo/CNET
Factors to consider when choosing the best pillow
Caroline Igo/CNETThe market is flooded with dozens of pillows that have expert marketing and appealing advertising. It's easy to jump at the chance to "sleep on a cloud," but the reality is that not every pillow will work for you. Which pillow is right for you will depend on your preferences, price range and sleeping position. There are several other factors you should consider when shopping for the best pillows. Let's go through each. Material and fillThere are several popular pillow materials to choose from: memory foam, polyfill, down alternative and feathers. There is no single best pillow material, but there are reasons you would choose one over the other. If you're someone who suffers from allergies, you probably don't want to choose a feather pillow. It's important to do your research into the pros and cons of each material to find which is the best for you. LoftPillow loft refers to how high or thick the pillow is when nothing is putting pressure on it. While this is a preference-based factor, it is also essential for ensuring proper neck support. Pillows typically range in height from 4 to 7 inches and come in three standard sizes:Low loft: 5.5 inches or lessMid loft: 5.5 to 6.5 inches High loft: 6.5 to 7.5 inchesSo, how do you choose the right pillow loft for you? When choosing a pillow loft, consider your sleeping style and the position of your neck. Side sleepers need a higher pillow loft to make up for the difference in distance between their shoulders and head to the mattress. Stomach sleepers need a thinner pillow to ensure their neck isn't in an unnatural position at night. Your sleeping position, body weight and head size will help you determine how much loft your pillow should have. As a general rule: Side sleepers: High or mid-loftStomach sleepers: Low loftBack sleepers: Mid loftCombination sleepers: Mid loft
Caroline Igo/CNETSizePillow size is pretty straightforward, but still something to consider. Most pillows are typically sold in either a standard, queen or king size. Pillows come in different shapes, too, which can make it a more complicated decision. Many brands sell pillows that are curved or extra fluffy. The size and shape of your pillow will come down to your preferences. Follow these general dimension guidelines when choosing a size:Standard: 20x26 inches (best for twin or full mattresses)Queen: 20x30 inches (best for queen mattresses)King: 20x36 inches (best for king of California king mattresses)Your sleeping positionJust like with mattresses, sleeping position matters when choosing the best pillow for you. Your sleeping position will determine the loft and firmness of your pillow. Stomach sleepers should opt for pillows that are softer and thinner, so their necks aren't turned in an unnatural position through the night. Side sleepers need a higher, firmer pillow that keeps their necks and spines aligned at night. Back sleepers have the most flexibility when choosing the best pillow; they can opt for a pillow somewhere in the middle.
Best pillows FAQs
How do you wash a pillow?
Due to the various pillow materials, you can't just throw your pillow in the washing machine and hope for the best anymore. Yes, some pillows are entirely machine washable with cool water, but many have removable covers that you can wash. It's important to check the label for cleaning directions. Some of the best pillows, like memory foam, are hand wash only.
How often should I wash my pillow?
Your pillows don't need to be washed as often as your sheets and pillowcases. Your sheets should typically be washed every two weeks, and your pillows should be cleaned every three to six months. Keep an eye on any spills that would accelerate this timeline. You can spot-clean your pillows between full washes.
What is the best pillow for neck pain?
The best pillow for neck pain is one that supports your neck and spinal alignment, ensuring your neck isn't in an unnatural position at night. We think that the Pluto Pillow or Original Casper Pillows are some of the best for neck support. Remember that using the wrong pillow (one that is too lofty, firm or flat) can contribute to neck and shoulder pain. Always make sure you use the best pillow for your sleeping position.
What kind of pillow is best for side sleepers?
Side sleepers need a pillow with a high or middle loft. This refers to the height of a pillow, and side sleepers should look for a height of around 5.5 to 7.5 inches. A high-to-middle loft helps to cradle the head and keep the spine in a neutral position all night. As for the best material for side sleepers, that comes down to a personal preference.
How often should I replace my pillow?
While the recommended amount of time to replace your pillows is every one to two years, you can extend this a little by washing them. Over time, a pillow will gather allergens and lose its shape, putting your head right next to these problems and offering less support.
What is the best pillow for hot sleepers?
If you sleep hot and tend to overheat throughout the night, we recommend that you consider cooling pillows like the Casper Hybrid Pillow with Snow Technology. Cooling pillows are typically made with breathable materials to help with temperature regulation.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.