Housing prices are causing some people to have smaller families than planned : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Housing prices are causing some people to have smaller families than planned Home prices skyrocketed during the pandemic — and have stayed high. For some Americans, making their budget work means having fewer children than they'd envisioned.
Special Series Cost of Living
Why prices are rising, and how we're coping
Housing prices are causing some people to have smaller families than planned
September 25, 20255:00 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
Laurel Wamsley
Housing prices are causing some people to have smaller families than they planned
Listen
·
3:53
3:53
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5540077/nx-s1-9466544" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Housing prices have increased 56% since February 2020, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Getty Images/Emily Bogle/NPR
hide caption
toggle caption
Getty Images/Emily Bogle/NPR
NPR's series Cost of Living: The Price We Pay is examining what's driving price increases and how people are coping after years of stubborn inflation. How are higher prices changing the way you live? Fill out this form to share your story with NPR.
What's the item? Housing How has the price changed since before the pandemic? Up 56% since February 2020, according to the National Association of Realtors. Why has the price gone up? Low mortgage rates and work-from-home policies spurred a homebuying rush in the first two years of the pandemic, causing home prices to spike. Then mortgage rates shot up in 2022 and homebuying slowed significantly. But prices have stayed high as many current homeowners have locked in low mortgage rates and aren't in a hurry to sell.
Sponsor Message
For Ava Rimal, the options became clear: She and her husband could have a second kid or move to a bigger house in a more upscale area. But they couldn't afford to do both. They chose the house. "I'd rather have one kid that I can give everything to than try to spread it thin between two children just for the sake of having two children," she says. Housing costs have risen sharply in recent years, leading people to make some hard choices. To make the math work on housing and day care and everything else, some Americans are opting to have a smaller family than they had once envisioned.
Business
Home mortgage demand surges as rates drop to 6.35%
Cost of Living
Grocery prices have jumped up, and there's no relief in sight
Rimal says she had always wanted to have two kids. She and her husband married during the pandemic and had a son not long after. For a time, they all fit well enough into the two-bedroom house in Asbury Park, N.J., the couple had bought in 2016. But as their son reached preschool, the house started feeling small. They weren't excited about the local schools. A new plan came into focus when they visited Rimal's co-worker in the South Jersey town of Collingswood, near Philadelphia. "It looked like a Hallmark movie. There were kids everywhere, and people singing," she recalls. "It was just nuts."
Sponsor Message
So they sold their Asbury Park home, and last June managed to buy a three-bedroom in Collingswood. But it stretched their budget. Their monthly payment is now almost $5,000, more than double what they were paying before. The mortgage rate on their old house was 3% — now it's 7.25%. "We bought the house with three bedrooms to kind of preserve the possibility of having another kid. But we didn't know that the interest rates were going to be so high or that we'd end up spending $100,000 more than we wanted to," Rimal says. When they ran the numbers on paying for day care for a theoretical second child, plus their mortgage payment, it was just too expensive. They decided to be one and done. Since the pandemic, affording a house has gotten harder for many The pandemic created a watershed moment in the U.S. housing market. Many who bought a home before rates shot up in 2022 locked in super low interest rates they can keep forever. That means their housing costs may be significantly lower than those who bought later — but they can also feel locked in place, in a home that no longer fits their needs.
Economy
Facing Trump's pressure, the Fed cuts rates for the first time this year
National
New policies are making life harder for trans people — and prompting big financial decisions
Some who bought a home in the last few years, when both prices and mortgage rates have been high, feel squeezed by monthly payments that leave little cash left over. They stretched to afford a home — and they're still stretching. And many who haven't bought a home yet say they don't know when they'll ever be able to afford one. High rents make it hard to save for a down payment. Some people waited for prices or rates to fall so that they could jump in — and they're still waiting. The median monthly payment on a home bought in 2024 was $2,207, compared to $1,525 for a home bought in 2021, according to an analysis by Bankrate.
Sponsor Message
The median sales price for existing single-family homes rose 56% between February 2020 and July of this year, according to data from the National Association of Realtors. And high mortgage rates have further slashed affordability: Rates jumped from pandemic lows below 3% to above 7% earlier this year, though in recent weeks, they've dipped below 6.5%.
Loading...
The high cost of housing is even causing some people to conclude they don't want kids at all. Chelsea Clouser is 29 and lives in Davis, Calif. She works in fundraising, and her husband teaches high school. When she was younger, Clouser was interested in having kids. "But then as I've gotten older and as I started working and kind of experienced how difficult it is to feel financially comfortable, it's just become less and less desirable for me," she says.
Economy
Cracks in the U.S. economy: Job growth slows 75% from a year ago
Part of that calculation is the cost of housing. Clouser and her husband pay $2,400 a month to rent a one-bedroom apartment that sometimes already feels too small, with just their cat. Over the last six years, rents nationally rose 17%. Clouser's rent has gone up every year she's lived in Davis. "We want to eventually buy a house. And so if we had a kid, while we're renting, that would just be so impossible," she says. The cost of their rent — plus the fees for parking, storage and a pet — has made saving up for a down payment difficult, especially when the cost to buy is so high. Last month the typical home in Davis sold for $843,000. But even if housing were cheaper, Clouser says she would still have reservations. She worries about the economy and layoffs at work. She doesn't want the worry of providing enough opportunities for a child, too. As she and her husband talk through their goals, they weigh the benefits of having a child against how much harder it would make their financial situation. In the end, she says, it "just doesn't really seem worth it."
housing costs
families
housing market
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor