Best Pressure Washers of 2025: I Tested 6 Power Washers on Wood, Metal and More - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Yard & Outdoors
Best Pressure Washers of 2025: I Tested 6 Power Washers on Wood, Metal and More
Give your outdoor surfaces a refresh with a pressure washer. Our CNET expert put these high-pressure dirt destroyers to the test to find the best of the best.
Our Experts
Written by
Richard Baguley
Article updated on June 27, 2025 at 2:00 PM PDT
Richard Baguley
Richard Baguley has been writing about technology for over 20 years. He has written for publications such as Wired, Macworld, USA Today, Reviewed.com. Amiga Format and many others.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Pressure washers combine the dirt-lifting power of a good scrub with the flow of a regular garden hose to help you clean driveways, siding, fences, outdoor furniture and more. If your home or patio furniture could use a thorough cleaning, we're here to help you find the right pressure washer for your needs. I spent several weeks testing a variety of residential pressure washers on different surfaces, include wood, metal, brick and more. Whether you're looking for an electric pressure washer or a gas-powered model, you'll find an option that fits your needs on this list. Our Picks
Best overall and best affordable Karcher K1800PS Cube
Jump to details
$130 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for home clean-ups and general cleaning DeWalt 20V MAX 550 PSI Cordless Power Cleaner Kit
Jump to details
$155 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for big cleaning jobs DeWalt DWPW3000 Max Pressure Washer
Jump to details
$499 at Ace Hardware
Jump to details
Best flexibility and deck cleaning SunJoe SPX3000
Jump to details
$169 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for RVs Stihl REA100 Plus
Jump to details
$380 at STIHL
Jump to details
Best for very large cleaning jobs and off-grid users Ego Power Plus 3,200 PSI
Jump to details
$879 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
YARD AND OUTDOORS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Beatbot AquaSense 2 Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $1,099 (save $500)
Traeger Grills Pro 22 Electric Wood Pellet Grill and Smoker:  $389 (save $161)
Ego Power Plus LM2135SP Self-Propelled Cordless Electric Lawn Mower:  $599 (save $151)
Aiper Scuba S1 Cordless Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $500 (save $200)
Karcher K1700 2125-PSI 1.46-GPM Pressure Washer:  $173 (save $58) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Pressure Washers of 2025: I Tested 6 Power Washers on Wood, Metal and More
What’s the best pressure washer?
The best 6 pressure washers
Best overall and best affordable
Best for home clean-ups and general cleaning
Best for big cleaning jobs
Best flexibility and deck cleaning
Best for RVs
Best for very large cleaning jobs and off-grid users
What we updated
Pressure washers compared
Buying tips: What to consider when choosing a pressure washer
Power
Pressure
Portability
How we test pressure washers
Other pressure washers we've tested
Pressure washer FAQs
What’s the best pressure washer?Our top pick for most people is the Karcher K1800PS, the most affordable pressure washer we tested. It does most of the things that most people will need, with enough cleaning power to remove all but the most stubborn dirt. It also comes with the necessary accessories to use this power effectively. If you need to clean further afield, the DeWalt 20V MAX offers excellent cleaning performance without tying you to the power grid. The STIHL REA100 Plus also has great performance in a very portable package for around $350, though this doesn’t include a battery or charger. Suppose you need to clean a fleet of Ferraris. In that case, the Ego Power Plus 3200 is the sports car of the battery-powered pressure washer world, with the highest pressure and most accessories, plus incredible performance from two huge batteries. The best 6 pressure washers
Richard Baugley/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
The Karcher K1800PS Cube earns our best overall pick. Richard Baugley/CNET
Best overall and best affordable
Karcher K1800PS Cube
8.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
Washer and accessories fit into a small, portable package
Excellent selection of optional accessories: brushes, surface cleaners, etc.
Foot power control is easy to use
Cons
Only has three included nozzles, none of which are particularly aggressive
The guarantee only covers Karcher soaps and cleaners
Single pressure level only
Who it's for:An excellent and well-priced ($219 suggested retail price) pick for general around-the-house and yard cleaning with easy storage. It's currently on sale for $200. Why I like it: Like the proverbial bowl of porridge, the Karcher K1800PS is just about right. It has enough power, enough options and is great for most tasks. The cables, hose, wand and nozzles are stored on the washer itself, so they're less likely to get lost. This also has a handle to carry the entire package, which weighs in at a portable 9 pounds. The 20-foot hose is long enough to get around the car. It comes with three nozzles: You get a 15-degree spray for general cleaning and a turbo nozzle that produces a more intense rotating single spray pattern with a cone angle of approximately 10 degrees. There's also a soap nozzle designed to create a nice, soapy, sudsy mix from the soap reservoir. Karcher warns that using cleaners containing bleach or acid will void the warranty; it recommends using its detergents exclusively. The wand is comfortable to use, with a lockout latch that operates like a reverse gas pump: the latch stops the throttle from engaging, rather than keeping it open. The included accessories cover a wide range of cleaning situations, making it an excellent choice for washing the car, cleaning the deck, or removing loose debris from the driveway. The lack of a zero-degree nozzle to produce a focused single beam of water means it struggles with more intense grunge on hard surfaces, though: although the 1,800 PSI pressure is plenty, the K800PS struggled to clean the ingrained gunk and mold from bricks and concrete. I did like the foot power switch, which makes it much easier to turn the washer on and off while cleaning. Using your foot on a switch, similar to a piano pedal, is much more convenient than leaning over to reach a power switch or button on the unit's body if you want to pause your cleaning session for a cup of tea. Who shouldn't buy it: People looking for intense cleaning power to clean concrete or brick will be better off looking at a washer with a bit more oomph, and the ability to focus it on a single spot when you need it.    ... Show more
Get it now
$130 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Power sources
ElectricType
DraggablePSI
1800Gallons per minute
1.2Cleaning units
2160Pressure hose
20 feetPressure settings
NoneIncluded nozzles
Turbo, 15°, SoapOther included accessories
Detergent tank, water filter
Add to compare
Richard Baguley/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
The Dewalt handheld comes with four nozzles. Richard Baguley/CNET
Best for home clean-ups and general cleaning
DeWalt 20V MAX 550 PSI Cordless Power Cleaner Kit
8.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Uses the same 20V MAX batteries as other DeWalt power tools
Decent cleaning power for a handheld washer
Good selection of nozzles
Suction hose and filter can slurp up water from ponds, buckets
Affordable at $150
Cons
Battery life with the included 2 Ah battery is short
Rather heavy for extended use
Who it's for: The DeWalt 20V MAX 550 PSI Cordless Power Cleaner Kit is the most powerful of the handheld cleaners I tested, making it ideal for professionals, home refurbishers, and serious DIY enthusiasts. At $149, it’s also quite affordable, though it only includes the tool and getting the other parts will cost you more. Why I like it: Imagine a DeWalt power drill that’s been getting into bodybuilding, and you have the 20V Max power cleaner kit. It resembles an oversized power tool, complete with a 20V Max battery under the handle and the same black and orange design as other DeWalt tools. It’s a good look, though, and this pressure washer has the brawn to back it up, producing a healthy 550psi of pressure that makes for effective general cleaning and dirt-disturbing tasks. Four nozzles (15 degrees, 25 degrees, 40 degrees and turbo) are included, which can all be stored on top of the power washer. Swapping them out is easy as well, just pull back on the brass ring around the base of the nozzle and pull it out, then push the replacement one in place. The weight mirrors the slightly oversized look. At 13 pounds with the included battery and wand, it’s a hefty package that needs both hands to hold and point accurately, more like a rifle than a handgun. That weight doesn’t include the hose pipe that is attached to the bottom of the washer that you have to drag around, either. Unless you use the suction hose, that is: plonk the filter on the end of this 20-foot hose into a pond, stream or a bucket of water, and it will suck it up and squirt it out, although at up to a gallon a minute, you will need to refill it quite often. Not that you’ll be using it for too long: At the maximum pressure setting, the included 5-Ah battery lasted only about 15 minutes. Who shouldn't buy it: If you're just washing the car, it’s overkill. You won’t need the battery, and it will be too bulky and awkward.   ... Show more
Get it now
$155 at Amazon
$150 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Power sources
Battery (20 V/5 Ah/ 100 Wh)Type
HandheldPSI
550Gallons per minute
1Cleaning units
550Pressure hose length
N/APressure settings
Low, HighIncluded nozzles
15°, 25°, 40°, TurboOther included accessories
Battery charger, soap bottle, carrying bag, suction hose & filter, quick connect hose adapter
Add to compare
Richard Baguley/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
This beefy DeWalt pressure is hefty at 36 pounds, but still retains some portability with its handle, wands and nozzles. Richard Baguley/CNET
Best for big cleaning jobs
DeWalt DWPW3000 Max Pressure Washer
8.5
/10
SCORE
Who it's for: If you have a big driveway, a building site, or a fleet of cars to wash, the DWPW3000 has your back. However, at $499, it’s one of the most expensive pressure washers we recommend. Why I like it: The DWPW3000 is a large, powerful power washer that can handle massive cleaning jobs while remaining portable and easy to store. With 3,000psi of water pressure and four included nozzles, it handled all the jobs I tested it on without strain, from washing the car to blasting ground-in dirt from rugged concrete blocks. The entire setup fits into a compact, portable package: The handle, wands and nozzles are stored in a lidded compartment on top, the power cable is wrapped around plastic lugs on the bottom, and the hose and foam cannon are positioned on top, secured by a retaining clip. That means you aren’t going to leave things behind or lose them: it’s all stored together. Additionally, the wheels and suitcase-type fold-out handle make it easy to move over flat surfaces. It’s a bit heavy to lug over rough surfaces, though, at 36 pounds, but the roll cage design makes it easy to pick up. Who shouldn't buy it: This is a lot of washer for just cleaning the car occasionally. If the high cost of this pressure washer puts you off, DeWalt offers a cheaper model with the same accessories but a maximum pressure of 2,100psi : the DWPW2100.  ... Show more
Get it now
$499 at Ace Hardware
Specs & Configurations
Power sources
ElectricType
DraggablePSI
3000Gallons per minute
1.1Cleaning units
3300Pressure hose length
35 feetPressure settings
N/AIncluded nozzles
15°, 25°, 40°, TurboOther included accessories
Foam cannon
Add to compare
Richard Baguley/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
The SunJoe pressure washer does great for deck cleaning and tackling stubborn stains. Richard Baguley/CNET
Best flexibility and deck cleaning
SunJoe SPX3000
7.0
/10
SCORE
Who it's for: Those who need a pressure washer for multiple cleaning tasks will find what they need for most of them in this flexible pressure washer. At $300 suggested retail price, it’s not the most affordable option, but it’s currently on sale for $169. Why I like it: The SunJoe SPX3000 offers a multitude of cleaning features in a single package. Five nozzles (0 degrees, 15 degrees, 25 degrees, 40 degrees and a soap nozzle that also doubles as a general rinse) and two separate detergent containers enable it to handle various cleaning tasks without requiring multiple setups. Most pressure washers use a soap dispenser that attaches to the wand or the washer, but the SPX3000 holds two of them on the body of the washer, along with a dial that allows you to switch between them and control how much is dispensed. Washing the car? Attach the soap nozzle, turn on the soap dispenser and get sudsy. Dial down the detergent, and it’s time for the rinse cycle without having to swap any parts out. Want to wash the deck next? Switch to the second soap dispenser, which is filled with deck cleaner, and so on and so on. It’s a compelling design for anyone who needs a pressure washer to do more than one thing, and it works
well. The washer itself is large at just over 26 inches tall. But at 26 pounds, it's manageable to pick up and move around. The large wheels and handle make it easy to drag around on flat surfaces, though, but it doesn’t fold down or get any smaller for storage. The 20-foot hose and 35-foot power cable mean that it can roam around all but the largest yards and driveways. One thing to note here: SunJoe doesn’t specifically say that you have to use its detergent, but it does advise that using pretty much any bleach or acid-based cleaner may break the washer and void the warranty. That's pretty standard, only industrial pressure washers can handle the more powerful cleaning agents. Who shouldn't buy it: While the SPX3000 is flexible, it isn't all that portable. If you have to wash a car park full of cars or don’t have access to power everywhere, a battery washer like the Ego Plus Power 3200 or the STIHL REA100 Plus can wash further afield.   ... Show more
Get it now
$169 at Amazon
$169 at SunJoe
Specs & Configurations
Power sources
ElectricType
DraggablePSI
2030Gallons per minute
1.2Cleaning units
2436Pressure hose length
20 feetPressure settings
NoneIncluded nozzles
0°,
15°, 25°, 40°, SoapOther included accessories
2 x Detergent containers
Add to compare
Richard Baguley/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Richard Baguley/CNET
Best for RVs
Stihl REA100 Plus
8.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Very portable for off-the-grid cleaning
True variable pressure control makes it more flexible
Adding batteries and water tank lets you go cordless
Cons
$650 price to include battery and charger
Battery life is good, but not great
Who it's for: If you want something to wash the RV that can fit into the RV, it’s a great pick. But it's also incredibly expensive at $700 for a model with the batteries and accessories and $380 for just the tool itself. Why I like it: The Stihl REA 100 Plus fits a lot into a compact package, which makes it an excellent pick for off-the-grid or out-of-the-way use. The roll-up hose and small body make it very portable: the whole package is about the size of a shopping basket and weighs 16 pounds. The 281-watt-hour battery is a significant contributor to this weight, providing a battery life that can be best described as acceptable. It lasts approximately 12 minutes on the maximum pressure setting and around 30 minutes on the lowest pressure setting. The battery is the same type used in other STIHL devices, and you can replace it with a larger one, up to a hefty 337 watt-hours that will extend the washing time significantly. STIHL also sometimes offers a second battery included: that’s worth watching out for. The pressure setting is also unusual: most pressure washers offer no pressure control (relying on the choice of nozzle to control the pressure) or offer only a high and low pressure setting. The Stihl REA 100 Plus features a stepless dial. You can tweak the pressure as much as you want with a twist of the dial. That’s a handy feature for tasks like washing decks, where more control over the pressure level makes for quicker cleaning: lower pressure for general washing, but more for lifting that hideous green algae. There are no swappable nozzles on this washer. Instead, you rotate the end of the wand to select a fan of about 20 degrees, a rotating stream or a soap spray. There's no built-in soap container, but a small pull-out tube lets you add soap from a separate container. For complete portability, Stihl offers a water tank that adds a telescoping handle, making it a portable cleaning companion.Who shouldn't buy it: If you're always cleaning within the reach of a power socket, save some money and get a wired power washer.   ... Show more
Get it now
$380 at STIHL
$700 at Acme Tools
Specs & Configurations
Power sources
Battery (32 V/8.7 Ah/281 Wh)Type
HandheldPSI
1800Gallons per minute
1.2Cleaning units
2160Pressure hose length
20 feetPressure settings
DialIncluded nozzles
3-in-1 nozzle (cone, rinse, soap)Other included Accessories
Charger, foam cannon
Add to compare
Richard Baguley/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Richard Baguley/CNET
Best for very large cleaning jobs and off-grid users
Ego Power Plus 3,200 PSI
7.0
/10
SCORE
Who it's for: Those with serious cleaning needs in out-of-the-way places will appreciate the power and performance of this expensive ($899 retail price) pressure washer. It’s a good option for people who need almost industrial-level cleaning, and it’s currently on sale for $549. Why I like it: The Ego Power Plus is the 3,200 pounds per square inch gorilla of this roundup. It has the highest pressure, the most feature-laden and is the loudest and most expensivest of them all. It’s a monster of a cleaner, blasting away even the toughest and most ingrained stains and marks. This should be used with some caution, though: the incredible 3,200 PSI of the turbo mode tore away the surface of every material I tried it on with the 5-degree nozzle when used without care.Although this washer is smaller than the SunJoe SPX3000, it's much heavier: With both of the monster 280 Wh batteries installed, it weighs a hefty 45 pounds. That’s way too much to lift comfortably, but the suitcase-style telescoping handle and the large, wide wheels make it easy to drag around on flat surfaces. All of the accessories also fit nicely onto the case. The nozzles are stored in plastic clips on the top, the pressure hose attaches to the back, and the wand clips into a holster on the side. The large wand is comfortable to use, and the rigid extension to the 25-foot pressure hose that connects the main washer to the hose is a nice touch: the pressure hose is less likely to get tangled or twisted around your legs or other obstacles. Switches on the wand also allow you to adjust the pressure level, making it useful for switching between cleaning and rinsing without stopping. LEDs on the handle also show the battery level. Also included as a standard accessory is an 8-foot hose and filter that allows you to draw water from a bucket, pond or stream. Combine this with the batteries, and you get a flexible washer that can go a long way away from the faucet. A foam cannon is also included, a soap container that replaces the nozzle and mixes soap from the container with the water. The two hefty batteries that are included both store about 280 watt-hours of juice, and a full charge of both offers about 45 minutes of use on the lower pressure settings. Use the full-power Turbo setting, though, and that falls to less than fifteen minutes. Those with a mathematical eye may have also noticed that this washer comes with only one charger, so you will need to charge one battery, then swap it out and charge the other. The batteries are the same 56-volt ones used by other Ego Power devices, so you may already have more than one charger and additional batteries. Who shouldn't buy it: It’s way more pressure washer than most people will need. If you don't have big cleaning jobs or off-grid needs, there are many corded and more affordable options on our list.
... Show more
Get it now
$879 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Power sources
Battery (2x 56 V/6 Ah/280 Wh)Type
DraggablePSI
3200Gallons per minute
2Cleaning units
6400Pressure hose length
25 feetPressure settings
Low, High, TurboIncluded nozzles
0°,
15°, 25°, 40°, Rinse, TurboOther included accessories
Stainless Steel Wand, Quick Connect Lance, Foam Cannon, Filter
Add to compareWhat we updated
June 2025: This article is a complete rewrite and overhaul, with all-new products that were tested over the course of weeks. Products we evaluated include the Karcher K1800PS Cube, DeWalt 20V Max 550 PSI, DeWalt DWPW3000 3000 Max, SunJoe SPX3000, Stihl REA100 Plus and Ego Power Plus 3,200 PSI. Pressure washers compared
ProductBest for...Price Power sourcesTypeOverall scoreUsability score (1 to 5)Accessories score (1 to 5)PSIGallons per minuteCleaning unitsPressure hose lengthPressure settingsIncluded nozzlesOther included accessories
DeWalt DWPW3000 Job sites and serious cleaning work$499ElectricDraggable8.54.5430001.1330035 feet15 degrees, 25 degrees, 40 degrees, TurboFoam cannonDeWalt 20V Max 550 PSI Cordless Power Cleaner Kit General cleaning, with the odd bit of serius power cleaning$149Battery (20 V/5 Ah/ 100 Wh)Handheld8445501550N/ALow, High15 degrees, 25 degrees, 40 degrees, TurboBattery charger, soap bottle, carrying bag, suction hose & filter, quick connect hose adapterEgo Power Plus 3,200 Off-grid users, very large cleaning jobs$549Battery (2x 56 V/6 Ah/280 Wh)Draggable7443,20026,40025 footLow, High, Turbo0 degrees,
15 degrees, 25 degrees, 40 degrees, Rinse, TurboStainless Steel Wand, Quick Connect Lance, Foam Cannon, FilterKarcher K1800PS Cube Car washes, cleaning off siding and other smaller jobs$200ElectricDraggable8.5431,8001.2216020 feetNoneTurbo, 15 degrees, SoapDetergent tank, water filterSunJoe SPX3000 Deck cleaning and stubborn stain shifting$169ElectricDraggable73.5420301.2243620 feetNone0 degrees,
15 degrees, 25 degrees, 40 degrees, Soap2x Detergent containersStihl REA100 Plus Boldy going where no power washer has gone before$700Battery (32 V/8.7 Ah/281 Wh)Handheld84.5418001.2216020 feetDial3-in-1 nozzle (cone, rinse, soap)Charger, foam cannon
Buying tips: What to consider when choosing a pressure washer
Some of the largest pressure washers I tested are capable of almost industrial-level cleaning. Richard Baguley/CNET Power
All of the pressure washers we tested for this roundup run on electricity, either from a wall socket or from a battery. Both have their pros and cons.Battery pressure washersBattery-powered models are great because you don’t have to worry about a long power cable: They can go anywhere there's water. Combine this with the water filter features that most offer, and you can even get water from a stream, pond or even a bucket. The downside of batteries is that they don’t last long: All the battery-powered washers will only provide a few minutes of washing from a full battery, which is barely enough to give the car a good rinse.
The EgoPower comes with a pair of huge batteries for extended use, but it adds a lot of weight. Richard Baguely/CNETCorded pressure washersWashers that get power from a wall socket will run as long as you pay the bill, but you will need a power cable that can reach as far as you want to wash. This will also need to be a beefy one: larger models can draw up to 13 to 15 Amps, which requires a high-capacity power extension cable. Use a thinner one, and it could melt or catch fire.  Gas-powered pressure washersThere are still plenty of pressure washers available that are gas-powered, usually with a two-stroke engine like a scooter. Professionals love these for one reason: their long running time. A tank full of gas will last much longer than a battery, and it doesn’t require a wall socket to plug into. It’s also easy to keep a container of gas in the back of the truck for bigger jobs. We don’t recommend these for home users, though. Gas pressure washers are noisy and produce noxious fumes; who wants a smoky scooter running in their yard?  Pressure
Pressure is measured in pounds per square inch, or PSI. The higher the pressure a washer can produce, the more power it has to shift stubborn dirt, gunk, moss and other tenacious stains. Many of the washers I tested produce only a few hundred PSI of pressure, which is enough to shift dirt, remove surface stains from asphalt and concrete or rinse gunk off the siding of your house, but without damaging the material itself.
The Sunjoe has a lot of cleaning features in a single package with five included nozzles. Richard Baguely/CNETNozzlesAll of the washers I tested come with a variety of nozzles that spread the water in an arc to wash a wider area, ranging from 5 to 50 degrees. They also come with a turbo nozzle, which produces a single stream of water sprayed in a spinning helix, producing a cone-shaped spray that offers high pressure for washing, but with less risk of damage to the material being blasted. Most of the nozzles that come with these pressure washers are designated by the angle of the fan that they spray: the wider the angle, the wider the cleaning coverage, but the less pressure the water has. They are usually color-coded, with green for the smallest angle, then orange and white for the widest.  As a general rule, use a smaller angle (10 to 25 degrees) for removing stubborn gunk of a small area, then shift to a larger angle, upwards of 30 degrees, to shift the loose debris.The best place to start is with the makers of pressure washers call a turbo nozzle, which releases a single thin jet of water in a rotating arc, like a rotating lawn sprayer, but more focused. This can offer the benefits of both a small-angle nozzle (focused power) and a wider nozzle that sweeps the dirt away. Zero degree nozzles
Here you can see the width of the fan made by the yellow 15-degree tip versus the 0-degree red tip. Steve Conaway/CNETZero-degree nozzles, which are red-colored and release the full pressure of the washer in a single, focused stream, are controversial because they can be very dangerous. That concentrated beam of water moving at hundreds of miles an hour can injure you, tear apart wood, strip paint, crack bricks and score concrete. So, many washers don’t include them: in the pressure washers we tested, only the Ego included one as standard. Most other manufacturers offer one as an optional accessory, but I don’t think most people need one.The SunJoe also includes a zero-degree nozzle, which is colored red (for danger) and produces a single intense stream of water. That nozzle is also available as an optional accessory for several of the other washers. As an uncle once told me, with great pressure comes great responsibility. Use a zero-degree nozzle and a powerful washer on your deck, and it can tear up the wood, blasting away the sealant and wood surface to let in water, which can produce cracks and rot. Use it on your car, and it can turn a tiny paint chip into a rust patch by getting under the top layer of paint and lifting it off. Use it on your siding, and it can strip the paint or even crack the panels, causing leaks in your home. MaterialTo illustrate the problem, I attempted to pressure wash a concrete slab, a piece of deck wood and a brick using the 5-degree nozzle on the Ego Power Plus 3,200, the most powerful of the washers I tested in its turbo mode.
Using the turbo nozzle on the EgoPower+ 3200 caused damage to the wood.
Richard Baguley/CNETAll three materials were marked by the powerful flow, but the wood was the worst, with part of the wood torn away to a depth of nearly half an inch. If that would have been my deck, I’d have to tear out and replace the board. The bottom line? For general cleaning of house and car, one of the smaller pressure washers I tested like the Karcher 1800PS has enough cleaning power for most tasks and is unlikely to damage anything. If you want to keep a concrete driveway spotless or prefer your garden statuary to be shiny clean and completely moss-free, get a more powerful model like the Ego Power Plus, but be careful about how and where you use it.
Using the turbo nozzle tore the wood away at a depth of nearly half an inch. Richard Baguley/CNET Portability
Having an incredibly powerful pressure washer is pointless if the darn thing is too heavy to move, so consider where as well as what you're washing. A portable washer like the DeWalt 20V MAX can go anywhere you can, especially as it can use a bucket as a water source. Bigger, more powerful washers like the SunJoe SPX 3000 are bulkier, heavier and harder to move around, although they do have wheels and handles so you can drag them over flat surfaces.
Some pressure washers are more portable than others, with handles and wheels. Richard Baguley/CNET
How we test pressure washers
I ran several tests to ascertain how well these pressure washers performed. These tests are increasingly difficult, testing the power of the washer from simple tasks to nearly industrial cleaning tasks.Rinse dirt and mud off a car.The simplest, but most common cleaning task is to clean my wife’s car, which gets grimy and salty in use here in New England. So, I cleaned it with each of the washers, including getting the wand into the wheel arch to get out any gunk and salt from driving on roads cleared from snow.  Remove loose dirt from a driveway. My driveway is asphalt, with a very low slope, so it accumulates all sorts of gunk over the seasons. I used the washers to sweep all of this detritus away into the gutterClean the planks of a wooden deck. I love sitting on my deck in the summer, but with multiple people and animals traipsing in and out from the drive and yard, it gets dirty quickly. So, I used the washers to remove all of this dirt, but without removing the sealant that stops water from getting into the wood. Clean a fence. My garden fence accumulates all manner of poop and nastiness from the various creatures that my dog likes to chase along it, so I used these washers to try and remove as much of this as possible. The poop, that is, not the animals. Lift stains from concrete blocks. I have a patio made with concrete blocks, which pick up all sorts of gunk and are prone to turning an unpleasant off-green.  I also tried various other cleaning tasks around the house and yard as the mood took me. If you're planning on using a pressure washer regularly, here are a few tips. Know what your target uses will be. Plan your purchase around those. For me, that includes looking at aftermarket tips. There are a lot of options out there to make your life easier. Detergents can help. If in doubt, start with the white 40-degree tip and work your way up. Wear protective gear. Consider other upgrades if you'll be spending lots of time behind the spray, such as a new wand or high-pressure hose. Also, if you're new to the game, check out our beginner's guide to pressure washing. One thing to note here: I didn’t try stripping paint or other materials: that’s the sort of thing that should be left to the professionals who know how to deal with the possibly harmful or even toxic consequences. See our FAQ for more details.  Other pressure washers we've tested
Right now what’s on our main list is the full set of six pressure washers we’ve tested. We’ll be sure to update this best list with other tested products throughout the summer season.
Steve Conaway/CNETHere is a list of the other washers CNET has previously tested using older testing procedure. These are no longer included on our recommended list either because they're out of stock or because they weren't tested following a standard procedure.
Ryobi 803001 (Update: Discontinued): Priced in the middle of the group with a good attempt at a multi-nozzle tip option, the Ryobi sports the smallest engine specs and otherwise has OK cleaning power, enough to get the job done.Greenworks Pro 2300: I tested both the 2,300- and 3,000-PSI versions of the Greenworks Pro electric pressure washer series. The 2300 performs well; about what you'd expect. Very few of the electric pressure washers come with the zero-degree red tip, so if you're not looking for that concentrated flow out of the box, but still want a mid-tier option, this Greenworks pressure washer is a decent choice.Greenworks Pro 3000 (Update: Discontinued): Jumping up to the 3000 from the 2300 Pro series from Greenworks, you can feel the difference and increase in performance between the units. I'm also a fan of the lower and wider body style used here like we've seen with Tacklife and DeWalt. There is a bit of a price jump, but if you're going electric and your pressure washer load is on the heavier side, it would be worth the cost increase.Rock&Rocker 3500: This is the lowest-priced option of the units we've tested. Although it touts a maximum PSI of 3,500, it doesn't feel like it operates anywhere near that number (it does list its nominal PSI as 1,850). If you can overlook that, it's not bad for $138. It has a couple of features I'd like to see more of -- namely the built-in hose reel as well as added support for the spray wand. Chemical Guys ProFlow PM2000: I do like these suitcase-style bodies -- they're more actively mobile than the traditional body style, and lighter (also a big fan of the rotating casters). Although this unit isn't particularly powerful, my main gripe here is with accessory storage. This is the only unit that doesn't seem to have any type of accessory storage built in, for the power cable, spray wand or hose attachment. It does have a spot for the small interchangeable spray tips, but not for everything else.DeWalt DWPW2400: This pressure washer, like most DeWalt products, feels solid enough, but its spray performance did feel a bit underpowered for its stated specs. I have no real issues with its performance otherwise. A solid buy, but one I feel deserves a slightly lower price.Craftsman CMEPW2100: Another solid buy at $239 and probably my second-place pick for value buy in electric pressure washers. Good hardware, good performance. Also maybe one of my new favorite features for accessory storage. The spray wands always seem to be loosely stored, rocking about, or falling off. The CMEPW2100 utilizes a tab and slot design to hold the wand securely. I love it.Craftsman CMCPW350D1: Here’s another cordless power tool adapted into a pressure washer. It’s lighter than its DeWalt cousin but sacrifices about 40% of the stated PSI power. Like the DeWalt, it’s a solid option if portability is your priority -- especially for Craftsman users -- and reasonably priced around $129. Bonus: it comes with a handy five-in-one nozzle tip.Craftsman CMXGWAS020733: This is a good basic cleaning unit at a low price. I especially like its power cord pull location compared to most washers. Still, the lighter-duty feel of the upright form factor, plastic housings and missing yellow tip mark this one down.Generac 8874 (Update: Out of Stock): Lowest cost of the gas-powered group with a good wand option. No onboard detergent tank, missing yellow tip, plastic housings, loose spray wand storage and unbalanced wheel alignment prove that you get what you pay for. Simpson MSH3125 (Update: Out of Stock):: One of the higher-priced units, with solid metal parts and a low center of gravity. Otherwise, no onboard detergent tank, loose spray wand storage, and (at least on my unit) more than normal engine vibration.Teande 4200PSI (Update: Out of Stock): Looks great on paper and does actually include all five basic nozzle tip types and a neat double reservoir. You have to survive the tedious assembly and still be OK with loose spray nozzle wand storage as a tradeoff. The specified high pressure of 4,200 PSI offers no real-world advantage over the other washers rated at about 1,000 less PSI. Pressure washer FAQs
Can these pressure washers damage my car/siding/brickwork/woodwork/concrete?
Yes, if you misuse them. Many of the pressure washers we tested are capable of producing enough water pressure to strip paint from your car, damage the wood on your deck, turn the surface of bricks to dust or to score and mark concrete.
Show more
Are pressure washer safe? Electricity and water don’t mix.
When used correctly, they are very safe. All the ones with external power have a ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) built into the power cable, which immediately cuts the power at the slightest indication of a problem. A similar circuit is built into the battery for the portable washers.
Show more
Can pressure washers injure the user?
Yes, always take precautions such as wearing goggles and keeping your work area clear. Even the least powerful of these can produce a fast stream of water that can injure you or your pets. If you want to scare someone into being safe, many medical journals offer the unpleasant details of such injuries.
Show more
Are there materials you should not use pressure washers on?
Hazardous materials should never be power-washed. These include wood painted with old paint (which could contain lead) and old siding. My house, for instance, has asbestos concrete siding, which is perfectly safe as long as you don’t damage it. This includes using a pressure washer. Instead, I use a normal hosepipe when it needs cleaning or just wait for the rain.
Show more
Are pressure washers noisy?
Yes, and most have a rather jarring intermittent pattern of noise. When you first squeeze the trigger, they may be silent for a bit, but the motor will then kick in to bring the pressure back up with a jackhammer drone that persists for a while after you release the trigger. We recommend hearing protection, especially for the portable ones where the motor is in your hands.
Show more
How much PSI do I need to clean concrete?
The answer partially depends on what level of cleaning you're looking for. If you have maybe yard clippings or other loose dirt and/or particles that you're looking to remove, almost any pressure washer will do the trick. If you're looking to revitalize your concrete and brighten the color by removing that baked-in grime, you want to look for something over 2,000 psi. You can get the job done at or just below that number, but it will take a bit longer. 2K+ will speed the process up. Look into using a turbo rather than a standard tip, or even an aftermarket concrete cleaner attachment for pressure washers to make it go even faster.
Show more
What is the difference between a pressure washer and a power washer?
A pressure washer uses water at ground temperature. A power washer uses a heating element to heat the water before spraying it out. Because of the heat, power washers are more suited to removing stains containing living bacteria, like mold. Most residential washers are pressure washers and not power washers.
Show more
How do you winterize a pressure washer?
For a gas pressure washer, add a fuel stabilizer following the instructions in your manual. Also, follow the manual for instructions on how to clear any detergent. Finally, run a pressure washer pump saver through your washer by connecting it to the hose inlet. The engine doesn't need to run during this step, nor does the spray wand or high-pressure hose need to be connected. Once you see the white foam coming from the high-pressure hose connection, you're done.For an electric pressure washer, you can omit the fuel stabilizer step.
Show more
How do you use soap with a pressure washer?
You can use almost any type of liquid soap or detergent with a pressure washer, although there are pressure washer-specific detergents for jobs of all types. Your pressure washer will have a siphon hose or basin of some type, which you fill with the desired soap. Make sure any detergent cutoff valves are on, and then you can run the pressure washer as you normally would.
Show more
How much PSI do you need to clean a house?
For cleaning a house, a pressure washer with 1,500 to 3,000 PSI usually does the trick. Stick to the lower end for siding or painted surfaces to avoid damage, and go higher for tougher jobs like brick or concrete. Always use the right nozzle and make sure to keep a safe distance to protect the surface.
Show more
About the Author
Richard Baguley
Richard Baguley
Richard Baguley has been writing about technology for over 20 years. He has written for publications such as Wired, Macworld, USA Today, Reviewed.com. Amiga Format and many others.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.