CarMax sees unexpected drop in used-car sales even at lower prices, and the stock dives | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
CarMax sees unexpected drop in used-car sales even at lower prices, and the stock dives
CarMax sees unexpected drop in used-car sales even at lower prices, and the stock dives
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 25, 2025, 12:00:00 PM
By Steve Gelsi
CarMax's stock sinks to a more than five-year low as quarterly profit, sales and average selling prices miss estimates in what the CEO describes as a challenging quarter
CarMax said its most recent quarter was challenging.
CarMax Inc.'s stock took a dive toward a more than five-year low in early Thursday trading, after the used-car seller reported second-quarter profit, sales and used car prices that fell below Wall Street expectations despite lower prices.
That came as a shock to investors, who were expecting year-over-year increases in all of those categories, and marks a quick reversal from three months ago, when CarMax reported strong sales growth.
Chief Executive William D. Nash said the Richmond, Va.-based company's second quarter was "challenging," as he announced plans to cut costs by $150 million over the next 18 months.
The stock (KMX) tumbled 12.2% in premarket trading, enough to pace the S&P 500 index's SPX early decliners. It was on pace to open around the lowest prices seen since April 2020, at the height of the COVID-19-pandemic panic.
For the three months ended Aug. 31, CarMax (KMX) said the average selling price for used vehicles fell 1% over the year-ago period to $25,993 from $26,245, while the average analyst estimate compiled by FactSet was for an increase to $26,333.
Used-car sales dipped 7.2% to $5.271 billion, missing the FactSet consensus for a 0.8% increase to $5.725 billion. That margin was the biggest in at least five years, based on available FactSet data back to September 2020.
Same-store sales dropped 6.3%, well short of the Wall Street estimate for growth of 1.1%.
CarMax's second-quarter profit for the three months ended fell to $95.4 million, or 64 cents a share, from $132.8 million, or 85 cents in the year-ago quarter.
Analysts had expected earnings of $1.04 a share.
Total revenue, which also includes wholesale vehicle and other sales, fell 6% to $6.6 billion, below the analyst estimate of $7 billion.
Ahead of trading on Thursday, CarMax's stock had fallen 30.2% in 2025, while the S&P 500 had gained 12.9%.
-Steve Gelsi
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-25-25 0800ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
David Sekera, CFA and Susan Dziubinski Sep 22, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility