Six One Piece films are leaving Netflix. Only a few are essential viewing.
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
One Piece
All six of these One Piece flicks will disappear from the platform on Sept. 1
Watch these One Piece movies in the right order before they leave Netflix
By
Isaac Rouse
Published Aug 28, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your Polygon account
Credit: Image: Toei Animation
Six One Piece films are setting sail from Netflix on September 1. The streamer is betting as big as Shanks on the franchise’s future, with a heavy investment in its live-action series and brand-new anime from Wit Studio. Odds are that these movies will dock back on Netflix someday, but for now, here’s the best watch order if you want to enjoy them before they vanish over the horizon. Many One Piece films lie outside the series canon, but some of these movies recount entire sagas from the series. What’s more, some of these could fit into the canon, and some allude to plot points within the ongoing story. That’s why some of these options are more important to watch than others. So here’s the lowest to highest priority order if you’re cramming on One Piece over the next few days.
6
6. One Piece: Episode of East Blue
This TV special tries to cram the East Blue saga’s 61 episodes into just an hour and 45 minutes. To tell the origin story of Monkey D. Luffy setting sail on his quest to become King of the Pirates, a lot has to be cut, including key moments of character development for Zoro, Nami, Usopp, and Sanji. While some newcomers might find it a quick introduction to One Piece, longtime fans often disagree, and most would say this is one special you can safely skip.
5
5. One Piece: Episode of Skypiea
Just as disappointing as Episode of East Blue, the Skypiea special completely trims away the moments that make the saga shine. This abridged retelling cuts out countless gags, action scenes, and key moments, including the introductions of Blackbeard, Bellamy, and many other things. Given Skypiea’s significance in the current One Piece anime and manga, it’s far better to watch the full 43-episode saga than this rushed special.
4
4. One Piece: Heart of Gold
This TV special, directed by Tatsuya Nagamine, follows Olga, a young girl hunted by both the World Government and the ruthless wealth-seeker Mad Treasure, who holds the secret to Pure Gold — a legendary substance said to grant immortality and cure any illness. Olga joins the Straw Hat Pirates on a wild journey to the lost island of Alchemi, hidden inside the stomach of a colossal anglerfish named Bonbori. While it’s an entertaining adventure, it’s more of a middle-of-the-road story, and isn’t essential viewing before One Piece Film: Gold, even though they’re loosely connected.
3
3. One Piece: Adventure of Nebulandia
This TV special is often seen as the spiritual successor to the beloved non-canon G8 arc. Like its predecessor, it’s engaging and entertaining, giving some of the lesser-highlighted Straw Hats their moment to shine and adding fun world-building without interfering with the main story. The plot follows the return of the Foxy Pirates, who want a rematch against the Straw Hats, until the Marines step in and whisk some crew members away to Nebulandia, an island that nullifies Devil Fruit powers.
2
2. One Piece: 3D2Y: Overcome Ace’s Death! Luffy’s Vow to his Friends
3D2Y: Overcome Ace's Death! Luffy's Vow to His Friends is a One Piece TV special that covers Luffy’s two-year training period after the Marineford arc. While it’s an entertaining recap with fun non-canonical moments, like the origin of Luffy’s Red Hawk technique and a peek into a battle between two admirals, it can spoil events for viewers who haven’t caught up to the Dressrosa arc in the main story. This one is a better watch after knowing everything that happens, if you need a quick recap and want some improved animation over the original series.
1
1. One Piece Film: Gold
2016’s One Piece Film: Gold, directed by Tatsuya Nagamine and co-written by series creator Eiichiro Oda, is widely considered one of the best One Piece films, especially due to Oda’s involvement. The Straw Hat Pirates set sail for Gran Tesoro, a glittering, over-the-top amusement park on a massive ship, only to clash with the cunning casino boss Gild Tesoro, who uses his devil powers to control the city. With no world-ending stakes, the film is a more laid-back and fun watch. Watching the crew revel in the casino is a blast, and Tesoro proves to be a surprisingly compelling villain.
Anime
Movies
Opinion
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 8, 2025
Lego beams aboard the Enterprise, confirming Star Trek-themed set
8 hours ago
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
Sep 9, 2025
The Conjuring: Last Rites won't be the last Conjuring, right?
Sep 10, 2025
Sims 4 Adventure Awaits trailer shows off reality show competitions and summer camp
Most Popular
Him's blood-soaked ending falls flat for one frustrating reason
Superman, Elio, Ne Zha 2 and every movie new to streaming this weekend
Xbox even more expensive after second price hike in 6 months
3 cute, extremely gory stories from the set of Primate
I went to Borderlands 4's... New York Fashion Week runway show?
Towa and the Guardians of the Sacred Tree can’t escape Hades's shadow
See More
Trending Now
Prime Video’s new animated comedy pays tribute to Batman & Robin
One of the best arcs in One Piece is finally coming to Netflix
0:48
Helluva Boss' creator explains the changes after the original pilot
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.