CBS News Podcasts - CBS Mornings, CBS Evening News, Face the Nation, 48 Hours, The Takeout
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
Podcasts
Available wherever you get your podcasts
Inside the Bryan Kohberger Case: The Idaho Student Murders
In 2022, four University of Idaho students were brutally murdered, shaking a quiet college town to its core. As the case of Bryan Kohberger unfolds, 48 Hours correspondent Peter Van Sant brings weekly updates, expert analysis, and exclusive reporting.
Fifteen: Inside the Daniel Marsh Murders
In 2013, the two brutal murders of elderly couple Claudia and Chip left the city of Davis, California paralyzed in fear. Join 48 Hours correspondent Erin Moriarty for "Fifteen: Inside the Daniel Marsh Murders," a six-episode series that explores one of California's most chilling and notorious crimes.
All CBS News Podcasts
48 Hours
One of television's most popular true-crime series adapted for your ears. Follow along with 48 Hours every week as award-winning CBS News correspondents investigate the most intriguing crime and justice cases that touch on all areas of the human experience.
48 Hours: NCIS
Marine wife Erin Corwin was just 19 years old when she disappeared in California’s Joshua Tree National Park. Nearly two months later, her body was found in an abandoned mine in the unforgiving desert, and suspicions quickly fell on a fellow Marine. “48 Hours” and “NCIS” join forces, merging the award-winning journalism of one of the most celebrated true crime news programs with the world’s #1 TV franchise, to bring you the real-life cases that NCIS agents will never forget. This 6-episode premiere season of “48 Hours: NCIS”, hosted by CBS News correspondent Natalie Morales, untangles this twisted story of infidelity and betrayal that led to Erin’s tragic end.
48 Hours: Post Mortem
Go deeper into this week's episode of "48 Hours" with the immersive "Post Mortem" series. Audio episodes drop every Tuesday on the "48 Hours" podcast and full videos every Thursday on the "48 Hours" YouTube Channel. Producers and correspondents join host Anne-Marie Green to discuss key evidence, dead ends, mishaps, and stranger than fiction twists they faced in the field.
60 Minutes
Get the best reporting and storytelling on television from 60 Minutes - on your schedule. Now you can listen to the show in its entirety every week. 60 Minutes is the most successful broadcast in television history with more than 80 Emmys under its belt. 60 Minutes offers unbiased reporting on politics, in-depth investigations and important adventures from around the world- like no one else.
60 Minutes: A Second Look
As the most successful broadcast in television history, 60 Minutes has made and marked history since its premiere in 1968. 60 Minutes: A Second Look delves into the vast 60 Minutes archives, unearthing never-before-heard audio from groundbreaking interviews to give fresh perspectives on the people and events that shaped our world. Host and CBS News senior foreign correspondent Seth Doane is joined by the newsmakers and 60 Minutes correspondents who brought these stories to life for a whole new look at the stories you thought you knew. On 60 Minutes: A Second Look, you’ll hear how our world has–and hasn’t–changed in the past 50 years through the lens of an American journalistic institution. Download new episodes every Tuesday.
Agent of Betrayal: The Double Life of Robert Hanssen
Amid the nuclear threat of the Cold War, America's prized secrets were falling into the hands of its sworn enemy. The FBI's hunt for the leak led to an astonishing discovery—the mole was one of its own, special agent Robert Hanssen. For two decades, Hanssen masqueraded as a devoted patriot while ruthlessly selling out his country, trading classified intelligence to the Soviet Union and later Russia, in exchange for cash and diamonds. He was a whirlwind of contradictions—a self-proclaimed patriot and a traitor; a family man who sexually betrayed his wife; an ardent man of God and a sinner. Through interviews with Hanssen’s family, friends, and colleagues, CBS News Chief Washington Correspondent Major Garrett (Host of “The Takeout”) delves into the double life of Robert Hanssen and unravels the chilling truth about the most damaging spy in FBI history in “Agent of Betrayal: The Double Life of Robert Hanssen”.
Blood is Thicker: The Hargan Family Killings
Millionaire businesswoman Pamela Hargan and her youngest daughter Helen are found dead in their family home in McLean, Virginia. The strange and haunting crime scene puzzled investigators – was it a murder-suicide or was it staged to look like one? There was conflicting evidence all around. 48 Hours correspondent Peter Van Sant examines the suspenseful case in this 6-episode series, Blood is Thicker: The Hargan Family Killings. Detectives try to untangle mixed motives from mother-daughter discord, to sibling rivalry, jealousy and a family fortune. Find out if blood is really thicker when it comes to the Hargan family.
Candyman: The True Story Behind the Bathroom Mirror Murder
On April 22, 1987, 52-year-old Ruthie Mae McCoy called 911 to report that someone was trying to enter her Chicago housing project apartment through the bathroom medicine cabinet. Police thought she was imagining things, but when authorities finally checked on McCoy two days later, they found her dead with four gunshot wounds. Candyman: The True Story Behind the Bathroom Mirror Murder, revisits the real-life account of McCoy's strange death – one of the inspirations for the Candyman horror film. Hosted by journalist and Chicago native Dometi Pongo, this 6-episode limited series – produced by 48 Hours and CBS News – explores why McCoy's desperate calls for help were ignored, the surprising outcome of her murder trial, and the broader systemic issues of racial injustice, housing inequality, and the stigma of mental illness that surround this tragic event.
CBS Evening News
Listen to the flagship daily evening newscast on your schedule. The CBS Evening News offers all the latest breaking national and world news and insight into all the stories that impact your world. Original reporting, now when you want it.
CBS Mornings on the Go
Start your day with award-winning co-hosts Gayle King, Nate Burleson and Tony Dokoupil in Studio 57, as they bring you the most important headlines, intelligent conversations and world-class original reporting from around the world in less than 17 minutes.
CBS News Roundup
The CBS News team wraps up the major headlines you need to know every day on the CBS News Roundup podcast. On weekday mornings Steve Kathan delivers the “World News Roundup” and every evening you can catch up on all the day's news with Jennifer Keiper on the “World News Roundup: Late Edition”. Then, every weekend the CBS News team in Washington goes deep into the major stories on “Weekend Roundup'' hosted by Allison Keyes. Each episode features a “Kaleidoscope” segment that takes on social justice issues and critical topics like race, gender, disability, income inequality, and beyond.
CBS Sunday Morning with Jane Pauley
CBS Sunday Morning is the top-rated Sunday morning news program in all the key demos, and features stories on the arts, music, nature, entertainment, sports, history, science, Americana and highlights unique human accomplishments and achievements
Eye on Travel with Peter Greenberg
Peter Greenberg is America's most recognized, honored and respected front-line travel news journalist. Peter is Travel Editor for CBS News, appearing on CBS Mornings and the CBS Evening News, among other broadcast platforms. Eye on Travel is a travel news show originating from a different location every week, featuring local experts sharing their favorite gems.
Eye on Veterans
Each week, Navy veteran and Journalist Phil Briggs looks at life from the military veteran's perspective. From topics like treating PTSD, TBIs with marijuana and psychedelics to pushing Congress to pass better laws. Plus, we hear dramatic stories from combat vets, discover job openings, and meet celebrity actors, athletes, and musicians
Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan
Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan is America's premier Sunday morning public affairs program. For nearly 70 years, Face the Nation has sought to help audiences understand how current events affect their lives. Today, that mission remains the same. Hear moderator Margaret Brennan's illuminating and informative interviews with elected officials, policy experts and foreign leaders.
Inside the Bryan Kohberger Case: The Idaho Student Murders
In 2022, four University of Idaho students were brutally murdered, shaking a quiet college town to its core. As the case of Bryan Kohberger unfolds, 48 Hours correspondent Peter Van Sant brings weekly updates, expert analysis, and exclusive reporting. Follow the twists and turns of one of the most chilling cases in recent memory.
Inside the Lori Vallow Daybell Trial
48 Hours special coverage and analysis of the murder trial of Idaho mom, Lori Vallow Daybell. Accused of killing her two youngest kids and her new husband’s late wife, she could face life in prison if convicted. While the judge barred cameras during the trial, 48 Hours brings you real-time audio from the proceeding paired with an analysis of this astonishing trial.
It Could've Been Me
48 Correspondent Natalie Morales sits down with survivors to revisit the crime that nearly took their lives, with the haunting realization that the same could happen to any of us.
Killer Conversation
What’s it like to sit across from a killer and ask the questions no one else can? 48 Hours producer Judy Rybak sits down with correspondents Erin Moriarty and Peter Van Sant for revealing conversations about how the criminal mind works. Through behind-the-scenes stories and moments that never made it to air, Killer Conversation pulls back the curtain on what it’s really like to sit across from someone capable of murder and how that experience still haunts them years later.
Missing Justice
Christy Woodenthigh's family rushed to her home on the Northern Cheyenne Reservation when they got the shocking news that the 33-year-old mother was dead. They arrived to find no police officers, no approaching sirens, and no sign of Christy. Missing Justice takes you inside what really happened that night and the federal investigation that followed. Christy's family never trusted the law enforcement officers investigating her death, and bombshell testimony revealed their worst fears. CBS News reporters Cara Korte and Bo Erickson examine how the issues in Christy's case connect to the larger Missing and Murdered Indigenous Peoples crisis.
Mobituaries with Mo Rocca
"CBS Sunday Morning" correspondent Mo Rocca has always loved obituaries. Each episode of Mobituaries covers his favorite dearly departed people and things, from the 'Latin Lover' who redefined Hollywood masculinity in the 1920s to the TV dog who introduced kids to literature in the 1990s. Every Wednesday, hear fresh takes on famous legacies and uncover people worthy of their overdue moment in the spotlight. Even if you know the names, you've never understood why they matter until now!
MoneyWatch with Jill Schlesinger
Are you ready to take control of your financial life? Jill Schlesinger, CBS News business analyst and Certified Financial Planner, is here to help! On MoneyWatch, Jill will help you conquer the fear and anxiety of financial decisions, as she answers your questions about all things money. Have a question? From retirement, to career changes, to college funding and the right mix of investments to reach those goals, email Jill at askjill@jillonmoney.com. Tune in for new episodes every Tuesday and Thursday mornings.
Murder in the Orange Grove: The Troubled Case Against Crosley Green
On a pitch-dark night in April 1989, a young man named Chip Flynn was shot in a Florida orange grove. His ex-girlfriend Kim was the only surviving witness and claimed a Black man had robbed, kidnapped, and killed Chip. A year later, Crosley Green was sentenced to death by an all-white jury for Flynn's murder—a crime Green insists he didn’t commit. "48 Hours" correspondent Erin Moriarty has followed this controversial case for 25 years, delving into inconsistencies — from coerced confessions to allegations of a racial hoax — that challenge the integrity of the verdict. Now, Moriarty shares exclusive recordings and new interviews with forensic experts, legal analysts, and Green himself from prison. Murder in the Orange Grove, an 8-episode series from “48 Hours,” offers the most comprehensive deep dive into this shocking case that leaves one man fighting desperately for his freedom.
My Life of Crime with Erin Moriarty
"48 Hours" correspondent Erin Moriarty takes you inside true-crime investigations like no one else, taking on killers and those accused of crimes. From a Baptist preacher accused of staging his wife's suicide to a young mother who kills her ex-husband and claims self-defense, Moriarty brushes past the speculation to the evidence and talks to the people directly involved, including investigators and the families of victims. Follow along Erin's journey as she goes beyond the scene of each crime, behind prison walls, and into the killers' inner thoughts. It's all on this season of "My Life of Crime."
The Takeout
Politics, policy and a side of pop culture: Major Garrett serves up a balanced diet of serious discussion, humor and food...for thought.
Trained to Kill
Mark Stover was a talented dog trainer, better known as the dog whisperer of the Pacific Northwest. He was charismatic and attracted the attention of wealthy blonde heiress Linda Opdyke. They built a business together, along with a marriage. But Linda said Mark also had a dark side and when she tried to leave the marriage, he obsessively followed. She sought the protection of a security expert Michiel Oakes who soon became the new love of her life, her knight in shining armor. But when blood was found in Mark’s home and he was reported missing, detectives went looking for Michiel. In this dark love triangle, just who was the hunter and who was the hunted? Join 48 Hours correspondent Peter Van Sant for Trained to Kill: The Dog Trainer, the Heiress, and the Bodyguard, a gripping six-episode podcast that unravels this dark story.
Unsung Science with David Pogue
Hear the untold stories of mind-blowing achievements in science and tech. "CBS Sunday Morning" correspondent and six-time Emmy winner David Pogue takes you behind the scenes into the creation stories of the world's greatest advances and the people behind them. From transportation, food, space, internet, and health, creators reveal their inspirations and roadblocks they encountered in bringing their breakthroughs to the public. Hear all-new episodes of the award-winning Unsung Science podcast every other Friday.
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue