Serverless Computing – Amazon Web Services
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Serverless Compute
Overview
Getting Started
FAQs
Customers
Partners
More
Products›
Serverless on AWS
Serverless on AWS
Build and run applications without thinking about servers
Overview
AWS offers technologies for running code, managing data, and integrating applications, all without managing servers. Serverless technologies feature automatic scaling, built-in high availability, and a pay-for-use billing model to increase agility and optimize costs. These technologies also eliminate infrastructure management tasks like capacity provisioning and patching, so you can focus on writing code that serves your customers.
Read the Serverless Quarterly Recap Blog Post
Benefits of Serverless on AWS
Move from idea to market, faster
Eliminate operational overhead so your teams can release quickly, get feedback, and iterate to get to market faster.
Lower your costs
With a pay-for-value billing model, resource utilization is automatically optimized and you never pay for over-provisioning.
Adapt at scale
With technologies that automatically scale from zero to peak demands, you can adapt to customer needs faster than ever.
Build better applications, easier
Serverless applications have built-in service integrations, so you can focus on building your application instead of configuring it.
Serverless services on AWS
Modern applications are built serverless-first, a strategy that prioritizes the adoption of serverless services, so you can increase agility throughout your application stack. We’ve developed serverless services for all three layers of your stack: compute, integration, and data stores. Consider getting started with these services:
Filter by
Displaying 1-8 (18)
Compute
AWS Lambda
AWS Lambda is an event-driven, pay-as-you-go compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers.
View
Compute
AWS Fargate
AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine that works with Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS).
View
Application Integration
Amazon EventBridge
Amazon EventBridge is a serverless event bus that lets you build event-driven applications at scale across AWS and existing systems.
View
Application Integration
AWS Step Functions
AWS Step Functions is a visual workflow orchestrator that makes it easy to sequence multiple AWS services into business-critical applications.
View
Application Integration
Amazon SQS
Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) is a message queuing service enabling you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications.
View
Application Integration
Amazon SNS
Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) is a fully managed messaging service for both application-to-application (A2A) and application-to-person (A2P) communication.
View
Application Integration
Amazon API Gateway
Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that makes it easy to create and publish APIs at any scale.
View
Application Integration
AWS AppSync
AWS AppSync is a fully managed service that accelerates application development with scalable GraphQL APIs.
View
Show all
Use cases
Web applications
Data processing
Batch processing
Event ingestion
Build web applications
Build a simple “to-do list” web app that enables a registered user to create, update, view, and delete items. An event-driven web application may use AWS Lambda and Amazon API Gateway for its business logic and Amazon DynamoDB as its database, and AWS Amplify Console to host all static content.
Sample Code
Process data at nearly any scale
Deliver notes from an interview in Markdown format to Amazon S3. Use S3 Events to trigger multiple processing flows - one to convert and persist Markdown files to HTML and another to detect and persist sentiment.
Sample Code
Automate batch processing
Schedule workflows on a recurring basis using an Amazon EventBridge rule. For example, you can generate the minimum, maximum, and average ratings for air quality measurements by orchestrating the Extract Transfer Load (ETL) workflow using AWS Step Functions and AWS Lambda.
Sample Code
Index and store documents and images automatically
Use Amazon machine learning (ML) services like Amazon Comprehend and Amazon Rekognition to uncover information in unstructured data and send the results to Amazon OpenSearch (successor to Amazon Elasticsearch Service) for fast indexing. Patterns like this work well in ecommerce applications for tasks that support personalized customer experiences, such as clickstream analysis.
Sample Code
Get started with serverless on AWS
Builders
Ready to build? Head over to the learning library to get started with hands-on serverless tutorials.
Learning library
Business leaders
Want to empower your development teams? Check out these insights from IDC.
Executive insights
Startups
Need to build an MVP fast? Learn how to access credits, and build your first application.
Startup center
Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so we can improve the quality of the content on our pages
Yes
No
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.