Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME)) job with ShanghaiTech University | 12841662
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
Employer
ShanghaiTech University
Location
Shanghai (CN)
Salary
Competitive salary
Closing date
25 Aug 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Computing
Job Type
Faculty Member
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Company
Job Details
ShanghaiTech University invites highly-qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions in the newly established School of Biomedical Engineering (BME). We seek candidates with exceptional academic records, who have demonstrated strong potentials in all cutting-edge research areas of Biomedical Engineering. ShanghaiTech University is a newly-founded university in the heart of Shanghai Pudong’s Zhangjiang High-Tech Park that pioneers a new higher education and research system in China. With the backing and support of Shanghai Municipal Government and Chinese Academy of Sciences, ShanghaiTech aims to establish and maintain a world-class research profile in areas of energy, materials, biology, environment, healthcare, information technology and mathematics and to train future generations of scientists, entrepreneurs, and technical leaders. ShanghaiTech enjoys tremendous diversity, including faculty members from twenty-one countries. The qualified candidates must be fluent in communicating in English. Applicants with prior education and training experiences in overseas institutions are encouraged to apply.
For additional information about the department and the university, please visit:
www.shanghaitech.edu.cn
bme.shanghaitech.edu.cn
Academic Disciplines:
Candidates in all areas of Biomedical Engineering shall be considered. Our recruitment focuses, but is not limited to: Medical Imaging and Informatics (i.e., MR, CT, PET, Radiotherapy), Intelligent Medicine (using Artificial Intelligence, and Big Data), and Smart Biomedical Instruments (i.e., Wearable Device and Medical Robotics).
Compensation and Benefits:
Salary and startup funds are highly competitive, commensurate with experience and academic accomplishment. We also offer a comprehensive benefit package to employees and eligible dependents, including faculty housing programs and dependent education benefits. All regular ShanghaiTech faculty members will join its new tenure-track system in accordance with international practice for progress evaluation and promotion.
Qualifications:
Strong research productivity and demonstrated potentials;
Ph.D. (Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Medical Imaging, Medical Physics, Biomedical Image Analysis, Artificial Intelligence, Medical Robotics, or other related scientific disciplines);
A minimum relevant (including PhD) research experience of 4 years.
Applications:
Submit (in English, PDF version) a cover letter, a 2-page research plan, a CV plus copies of 3 most significant publications, and names of three referees to:
bme@shanghaitech.edu.cn
Long-term recruitment of Faculty, researcher, postdoctoral and other positions，welcome to contact us by email: bme@shanghaitech.edu.cn
Welcome follow us by WeChat official account
Company
ShanghaiTech University 上海科技大学
Jointly founded by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and Shanghai Municipal People’s Government in 2013, ShanghaiTech University aspires to be a small-scale, high-level, international university oriented towards research and innovation, for nurturing the next generation of innovative scientists, inventors, and entrepreneurs. On February 14, 2022, ShanghaiTech joined the list of China’s World-Class Universities Project as the youngest university in that list. With the backing and support of our two co-founding institutions, ShanghaiTech is committed to tackling the challenges that China and the world are facing in the fields covering artificial intelligence, biology, biomedical engineering, data science, electrical engineering, energy, environment, human health, materials, and others.
ShanghaiTech’s tenure-track system is attracting talented faculty with a wealth of experience from world-leading universities and institutes. Currently there are ~340 professors under the tenure-track system, 80% of whom have overseas study or work experiences and around 14% are foreign nationals. Our team of nearly 290 adjunct professors includes four Nobel Prize winners, 38 academicians of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE).
With a focus on STEM fields, ShanghaiTech has established the following schools, institutes, one center and a research hospital:
-School of Physical Science and Technology
-School of Life Science and Technology
-School of Information Science and Technology
-School of Entrepreneurship and Management
-School of Creativity and Art
-Institute of Humanities
-School of Biomedical Engineering
-Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies
-iHuman Institute
-Institute of Mathematical Sciences
-Center for Transformative Science
-Institute of Carbon Neutrality
-Shanghai Clinical Research and Trial Center (research hospital)
Located in Shanghai’s Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, ShanghaiTech plays an important role in the development of the Zhangjiang Comprehensive National Science Center, in partnership with CAS institutes. The proximity of neighboring facilities offers numerous opportunities for scientific collaborations. The world-class scientific facilities include: National Center for Protein Science (Shanghai), Shanghai HIgh repetitioN rate XFEL and Extreme light facility (SHINE), Shanghai Superintense Ultrafast Laser Facility (SULF), Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), Shanghai Soft X-ray Free Electron Laser Facility (SXEFL), and others. These facilities welcome not only ShanghaiTech staff and students, but also other researchers from China and the world.
Currently, there are over 300 research groups at ShanghaiTech. Since 2016, ShanghaiTech has published 85 Cell, Nature and Science papers as the main affiliation, and multiple achievements are recognized at the national/municipal level, including two awards among Top 10 Scientific Advances in China, one award among Top 10 S&T Advances in Chinese Universities, five awards among Top 10 Advances in Life Sciences in China, and one 1st prize of the Shanghai S&T Awards, etc.
In 2019, ShanghaiTech ranks first in the Report on Tech Transfer Achievements in China (Higher Education Institution)1. Since the birth of the first spinoff company in 2016, ShanghaiTech has incubated 40 spinoffs, spanning the areas of biomedicine, IT&AI, high-end manufacturing and new energy. Not only the faculty, but also the students become founders of those spinouts. Further, dedicated incubators inside and outside the campus serve as vital “powerhouses” of innovation practices and bridges for connecting technical, market, policy and capital resources.
Company info
Location
Shanghai201210China
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Hangzhou, China
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
Shanghai (CN)
Recruitment of Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software