This overwhelmingly positive-rated hidden gem on Steam is at its lowest price ever
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This overwhelmingly positive-rated hidden gem on Steam is at its lowest price ever
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 7, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
It's not every day we see a huge discount on a game I haven't heard of before now. It's even rarer that the game has "overwhelmingly positive" reviews—that's a rating of 95% or higher—and yet somehow managed to slip my radar. And yet, here we are with Worldless, a game I've literally learned about five minutes ago because it's on the biggest sale Steam has ever seen. Well, I guess you learn something new every day.
Worldless is 60% off on Steam, and it even comes with a demo
Over on Steam, Worldless is currently enjoying a 60% discount, the lowest we've ever seen it go. Its most-used tags are "2D Platformer," "Difficult," "Metroidvania," and "Female Protagonist," so if you're already tired of Silksong, this sounds like a lovely replacement. Joking aside, the game's art direction is stunning, and the combat looks super explosive and full of opportunities to learn attack patterns and turn your enemy's attacks against them. It's likely why Worldless has 95% positive reviews in its two years of release; whatever it's doing, it's doing it well. Here's how the developers describe the game:
Worldless unfolds in a newborn universe where entities are locked in an eternal conflict fueled by the polarizing nature of their attractions. These encounters can trigger an unstable exchange of polarities with transformations that are unpredictable and full of mysterious consequences.
In this stylized 2D active turn based platformer, you will explore intricate and interconnected realms brimming with secrets and mysteries. Master a rich set of abilities such as dashing and wall jumping to traverse these abstract landscapes.
If that sounds like a blast (I know it does to me), then pop over to the Worldless Steam page for more information. The game comes with a demo, so if you're still on the fence, you can give it a spin and see if it's for you. If you like what you try, then you can grab the full version at 60% off for $7.99 until September 20th. That should be plenty of time to give the game a spin and see if it's to your liking.
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
5 reasons why PC gaming feels broken in 2025
Sep 10, 2025
I tried replacing Chrome bookmarks with NotebookLM, and my browser no longer screams chaos
Sep 9, 2025
I used to fear the Raspberry Pi’s underwater Wi-Fi capabilities, but now I’m looking forward to it
Sep 9, 2025
Your Windows registry doesn't need "cleaning", but you can do these 5 things instead
More from our brands
Netflix subscribers can now play a $160 game for free
RPG Praised As "Dangerously Replayable" Is 90% Off On Steam Right Now
Steam Users Have Until August 21 to Claim Latest Free Game
25 Best Free-To-Play Video Games For Low-End PCs
This week’s big Steam sale is a great time to dive into Paradox’s grand strategy games
Steam Really Wants You To Play Every Borderlands Game Before 4 Releases, & I Think You Should Too
30 Best Co-Op Games On Steam (April 2025)
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
6 tools that turned my NAS into the ultimate backup system
eGPUs over Thunderbolt sound great, but be aware of these limitations
3 reasons PCIe risers are a bad idea for your shiny new gaming PC
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.