Cheapest Electric Cars for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Electric Vehicles
Cheapest Electric Cars for 2025
An EV can be a forward-thinking automotive investment, but the price tag can be nerve-wracking. These are the models you can get for the lowest price.
2023 Chevrolet Bolt EV 1LT: $27,495 The least expensive EV
See at TrueCar
2023 Chevrolet Bolt EUV 1LT: $28,795 The least expensive EV 2: Electric Bugaloo
See at Cargurus
2024 Nissan Leaf S: $29,280 The old guard EV
See at Cargurus
2023 Mini Cooper Electric SE: $31,895 The most fun cheap EV
See at Cargurus
2024 Hyundai Kona Electric SE: $34,050 A practical electric commuter
See at Cargurus
2023 Volkswagen ID 4 Standard: $40,290 A more spacious EV for frugal families
See at Cargurus
2024 Tesla Model 3 RWD Standard Range: $40,380 The best inexpensive EV overall
See at Cargurus
2023 Kia Niro EV Wind: $40,925 An inexpensive EV with decent range
See at Cargurus
2024 Hyundai Ioniq 6 SE RWD: $43,565 The most efficient EV for the money
See at Cargurus
Show more (4 items)
Table of Contents
Cheapest Electric Cars for 2025
What is the cheapest electric car?
Cheapest
electric cars of 2024
Factors to consider before buying a cheap EV
How we test and rank the cheapest electric cars
Other cheap electric vehicles we tested
FAQs
Buying a new car can be a daunting investment. According to June figures from Kelley Blue Book, the average new vehicle transaction price in the US sits at $48,644. That's 2% lower than the market peak in December 2023, but it's still around 13% more than prices in June 2021.That same Kelley Blue Book report says average new electric vehicle prices are actually down 10.8% from January 2023, settling at $55,353 on average thanks to a combination of increased supply, the arrival of more-affordable models and trim levels, and aggressive price cuts by Tesla, the largest EV manufacturer in the US.That still leaves EVs, on average, more expensive than their fossil-fueled contemporaries, but if you're interested in making the switch to an electric car, there are still plenty of affordable options to choose from, especially the ones that qualify for state or federal EV tax incentives. To that end, here are the cheapest electric cars you can buy today, ranked by their manufacturer's suggested retail price.Cheapest doesn't always equal best, however, so I'm sweetening the deal with insights gained over my 15 years testing hundreds of vehicles and dozens of EVs for review here at CNET. You can find my picks below, along with tips to help you understand what you should look for in a good affordable electric car.What is the cheapest electric car?
Enlarge Image
The Chevrolet Bolt EV takes pole position as the least expensive new EVs in the US. Antuan Goodwin/CNETIf you're simply looking for the least expensive electric car you can buy today, look no further than the 2023 Chevrolet Bolt EV 1LT. The Bolt's been of my favorite electric cars since its debut back in 2016. Despite being the cheapest new EV on sale today, it boasts a remarkably high range, a simple, yet effective phone-based infotainment suite and more interior volume for people and cargo than you'd expect in such a compact footprint.I'm not alone in my love for the Bolt. Early last year, Chevy announced the discontinuation of the affordable EV, but demand was so high that it earned a stay of execution and production stretched into December. It was selling like gangbusters. Sadly, all good things must come to an end and the Bolt EV production has finally halted. However, new examples can still be found on dealer lots (and, weirdly, on Chevy's website), which still qualify for the full $7,500 federal EV tax credit.Cheapest
electric cars of 2024
Chevrolet
2023 Chevrolet Bolt EV 1LT: $27,495
The least expensive EV
If you're simply looking for the least expensive electric car you can buy today, look no further than the 2023 Chevrolet Bolt EV 1LT. One of my favorite electric cars since its debut back in 2016, the Bolt is full of simple surprises. Despite being the cheapest new EV on sale today, it boasts a remarkably high range. There's more interior volume for people and cargo than you'd expect in such a compact footprint. And as dashboard displays become larger and more pervasive, the Bolt's Android Auto or Apple CarPlay infotainment is a breath of uncomplicated fresh air.About the only negative thing I can say about the 2023 Bolt EV is that you'll have to act fast to snag one. Chevy recently ended production for the current Bolt EV and the larger Bolt EUV, which was after it extended production through December due to "unprecedented demand." You can still find new examples at certain dealerships, but not for much longer. It will be a few years before the Ultium-based replacement hits the road (and who knows how much that will cost), so get 'em while they're hot.ProsSpacious interiorUncomplicated techCompact city friendly designConsSlow DC chargingProduction ended last year so availability is limitedAdditional attributesRange: 259 milesEfficiency: 28 kWh/100 mi, 120 mpgeFeatures: Android Auto, Apple CarPlayIRA qualification: Yes, up to $7,500
See at TrueCar
Andrew Krok/Roadshow
2023 Chevrolet Bolt EUV 1LT: $28,795
The least expensive EV 2: Electric Bugaloo
No, you're not seeing double. The Bolt EUV takes everything that's great about the Bolt EV and stretches it across a larger canvas. With more space for passengers and cargo, the EUV is, perhaps, a better fit for young families for not much more money than its smaller sibling. Plus, it can be had with GM's amazing hands-free Super Cruise highway assist. However, the extra girth comes at the cost of a bit of range, dropping to a still respectable 247 miles per charge. A fantastic value, the Bolt EUV is a great entry point into an EV lifestyle.Like the smaller Bolt EV, the EUV's production ended late last year. New examples can still be found at Chevy dealerships but when those are gone, they're gone for good.ProsExcellent urban driving rangeOptional GM Super Cruise hands-free highway assistConsProduction ended so there is limited supplySlow charging speed discourages long road tripsAdditional attributesRange: 247 milesEfficiency: 29 kWh/100 mi, 115 mpgeFeatures: Super Cruise highway assist, Android Auto, Apple CarPlayIRA qualification: Yes, up to $7,500
See at Cargurus
Nissan
2024 Nissan Leaf S: $29,280
The old guard EV
For many, the Nissan Leaf was the first electric vehicle that could be taken seriously as an alternative to gas-burning commuters. Now deep into its second generation, the Leaf is still fighting the good fight. In its most affordable configuration, the Leaf S with the 40-kWh battery pack, the electric hatchback offers 149 miles per charge, but paying more for the 212-mile, 60-kWh pack gets you a bit more electric driving wiggle room.That said, the 14-year-old Leaf is beginning to feel long in the tooth. Its battery technology is significantly older with less robust thermal management than the EV's much newer competitors. Plus, it recently lost qualification for the partial federal EV tax credit. These days, the Leaf is maybe not the best choice for an affordable EV, even if it's one of the least expensive. ProsFront central charging port is ideally locatedReasonably efficient and inexpensive to operateConsSmallish battery and low rangeSlow DC charger uses less common ChaDeMo connectionAdditional attributesRange: 149 milesEfficiency: 30 kWh/100 mi, 111 mpgeIRA qualification: No
See at Cargurus
Steven Ewing/Roadshow
2023 Mini Cooper Electric SE: $31,895
The most fun cheap EV
The Mini Cooper SE is a specific car built for a specific task. With only 114 miles of range between charges and a fairly slow 50-kilowatt DC fast charging capacity, this isn't the car to pick for long-roving road trips. But for getting around town, the Cooper SE is a joy to drive. It has fantastic handling and acceleration at urban speeds, charming interior and exterior design and — thanks to its compact proportions — easy maneuverability and parkability.The Mini Cooper SE shines as a zero-emissions city car, suburban commuter or a first EV for a young driver. Despite its limitations, it's one of our favorite electric cars and should only get better when the next generation hits the road late next year.ProsExtremely funCompact and city friendlyCons:Short range even for this listAdditional attributesRange: 114 milesEfficiency: 31 kWh/100 mi, 110 mpgeIRA qualification: No
See at Cargurus
Hyundai
2024 Hyundai Kona Electric SE: $34,050
A practical electric commuter
I feared that Hyundai's second-generation Kona Electric would be more expensive than its predecessor, but the automaker surprised with a starting price that's around $800 lower. The new Kona Electric SE looks like a futuristic space buggy and cruises up to 200 miles per charge, though more expensive trim levels with larger batteries can extend that to 261 miles. Significantly larger than last year, the Kona now boasts up to 63.7 cubic feet of cargo capacity with the seats folded and rolls out standard with Hyundai's excellent driver aid and infotainment suite with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity.ProsLarger and more stylish than beforeUpgraded 100 kW DC fast chargingConsMost affordable base model only offers 200 miles per chargeAdditional attributesRange: 200 milesEfficiency: 29 kWh/100 mi, 116 mpgeIRA qualification: No
See at Cargurus
Craig Cole/Roadshow
2023 Volkswagen ID 4 Standard: $40,290
A more spacious EV for frugal families
Volkswagen's ID 4 is a midsize electric SUV — slotting in between the gasoline-powered Taos and Tiguan — that steps up in scale over the mostly compact and subcompact offerings at the top of this list. The base Standard spec mates a 62kWh battery pack with an electric motor at the rear axle making a modest but torque 201 horsepower. In this configuration, owners can expect around 209 miles of range. Even better is the 275-mile, 82-kWh setup that adds about $5,000 to the bottom line, but also a lot more peace of mind when roaming far from home.ProsSlightly more spacious than direct competitorsConsAwkward ergonomicsModest range at entry pointAdditional attributesRange: 209 milesEfficiency: 31 kWh/100 mi, 107 mpgeIRA qualification: Yes, up to $7,500
See at Cargurus
Tesla
2024 Tesla Model 3 RWD Standard Range: $40,380
The best inexpensive EV overall
Tesla has been shaking things up with its Model 3, adjusting the MSRP seemingly on a monthly basis. The electric sedan is currently as affordable as it's ever been, starting at $40,380 including destination charges. Factor in up to $7,500 in federal EV tax credits, along with any state incentives, and the Model 3 is less expensive than a Toyota Camry. With excellent performance and 272 miles of range for the base model (the most of any EV on this list), the Tesla Model 3 is a formidable option for EV enthusiasts on a budget.ProsExcellent performance, highest range for priceAffordable price bolstered by federal tax incentivesAccess to Tesla's widely available Supercharger fast charging networkCons:Expensive Autopilot and FSD driver aid tech upgradesDashboard tech moves too many basic features to touchscreenAdditional attributesRange: 272 milesEfficiency: 25 kWh/100 mi, 132 mpgeFeatures: Available FSD driver aid, connected 15.4-inch dashboard displayIRA qualification: Yes, $7,500
See at Cargurus
Antuan Goodwin/CNET
2023 Kia Niro EV Wind: $40,925
An inexpensive EV with decent range
The Niro EV is the often-forgotten front-wheel-drive cousin of Kia's award-winning favorite, the EV6. The Niro boasts solid battery-powered performance with a 253-mile cruising range and a peppy 201 horsepower electric motor. Yes, the EV6 is faster with longer range and better efficiency, but only slightly so. Plus, the Niro EV is nearly $10,000 cheaper — starting at $40,925 for the well-equipped Wind trim level — with the same great driver aid and infotainment tech as its more expensive cousin. If you're not ready to go full EV, the Niro is also available in electrified hybrid and plug-in hybrid variants as well.ProsQuiet and spacious daily driverWell sorted driver and safety techConsSlowish 45 minute DC fast chargingAdditional attributesRange: 253 milesEfficiency: 29 kWh/100 mi, 113 mpgeIRA qualification: No
See at Cargurus
Hyundai
2024 Hyundai Ioniq 6 SE RWD: $43,565
The most efficient EV for the money
Hyundai's Ioniq 6 is the most efficient electric car you can buy today. Well, technically, it's tied for position with Lucid's much more expensive Air, but I digress. The 6's aerodynamic sedan body rides atop the Hyundai Motor Group's E-GMP electric vehicle platform giving it an edge in range and efficiency. In its thriftiest standard-range RWD configuration, the Ioniq 6 cruises up to 240 miles and covers 4.17 miles per kilowatt-hour. That's an EPA-estimated equivalent of 140 mpge.ProsStandard infotainment covers most driver needsExtreme efficiency saves money on operating costsConsBusy styling inside and out is not for everyoneAdditional attributesRange: 240 milesEfficiency: 24 kWh/100 mi, 135 mpgeIRA qualification: No
See at Cargurus
Factors to consider before buying a cheap EVEfficiency: Efficiency is often the most overlooked number on an EV's spec sheet, but when considering the affordability of an EV, it's one of the most important. I prefer to measure miles per kilowatt-hour, but I've used kilowatt-hours per 100 miles in this guide to make operating cost estimates easier. Simply multiply this number by your local energy rates (you can even use off-peak rates, if you plan on frequently charging overnight at home) to easily calculate how much it costs to operate an EV and how much you could potentially save compared to a conventional combustion car.Operating costs and maintenance: Along with the energy cost, there are other operating expenses to consider relative to a combustion car. Insurance rates can sometimes be higher for EVs, but maintenance costs are usually significantly lower thanks to the lack of oil changes, fewer mechanical parts and reduced brake wear.
Enlarge Image
Volvo's EX30 is one of the most anticipated affordable EVs set to hit the road next year. VolvoOptions and upgrades: Take care when choosing options and upgrades like wheels, roof racks or performance packages. Larger wheels, for example, may look pretty sweet but could increase the sticker price and reduce an EV's efficiency, so much so that some automakers list separate EPA estimates for different wheel and tire packages. Tires for big wheels may also cost more to replace or wear more quickly, costing you more money over the long term.Range: The battery is usually the most expensive component on an electric car, so cheap EVs tend to have the shortest ranges. Yet, even the least expensive options usually boast enough range for commuting and running errands around town. When choosing the right amount of range for your budget, consider leaving a little wiggle room in your estimate for unexpected journeys, cold weather range reduction (if applicable) and your driving habits. And if your average journey is on the longer side or you frequently road trip, spending a little more for more range can add a lot of peace of mind.How we test and rank the cheapest electric carsI've driven almost every EV model sold in the US over the last 15 years and, for each car I test, I cover over 200 miles behind the wheel on a mixed driving route. That includes dense urban roads (complete with potholes), long stretches of highway driving and some good fun twisty mountain roads mixed in for flavor. On the road, I test DC fast charging, driving dynamics, efficiency and range, comparing my real world experience with estimates reported by the US EPA, both to double check the official numbers against the real world and to make sure my experiences represent those of the typical American driver.
Enlarge Image
I've been evaluating cars — electric and conventional — at CNET for over 15 years. CNETFor this list of affordable electric cars, I tried to keep an even playing field by considering only the least expensive spec of each EV available for sale in the US today, while avoiding mixing range and performance numbers from pricier variants. All prices include destination charges — an unavoidable cost that I personally believe all automakers should bake into their advertised prices anyway — but exclude any temporary manufacturer incentives and Tesla's weird "estimated three-year gas savings." (Most EVs should save money, since electricity is usually less expensive than gas.) I've also excluded any available state or federal incentives or tax rebates in the ranking, as they'll vary from buyer to buyer, but have separately indicated which vehicles qualify for the federal Inflation Reduction Act EV tax credit and how much you could expect to save.Other cheap electric vehicles we testedThrifty EV shoppers looking for low long-term operating costs should consider the 2023 Hyundai Ioniq 6 SE Standard Range ($42,715), which is currently tied with the much more expensive Lucid Air ($78,675) for the most energy efficient electric vehicle you can buy. At 24 kWh/100 mi, the Hyundai is not only affordable, but also saves you money with every mile traveled. Buyers looking for a bit more cargo room should also consider the 2023 Hyundai Ioniq 5 SE Standard Range ($42,785), which trades a bit of range and efficiency for a much more spacious cabin and rear hatch.You have to jump much further down the list of affordable EVs before you reach the first pickup truck. The 2023 Ford F150 Lightning Pro ($56,635) is currently the cheapest, targeting commercial buyers with a barebones — but still highly connected — feature set. However, for most people, the XLT model ($58,135) will be a better fit and our current pick for best electric truck. That it also qualifies for up to $3,500 in Federal EV tax credits is a nice cherry on top.
Enlarge Image
The Ford F-150 Lightning Pro, the least expensive electric pickup, targets commercial use rather than private owners. Antuan Goodwin/CNETFAQs
Are electric cars more expensive than gas-powered cars?
Within the same class, EVs tend to be more expensive than their combustion-powered cousins due to the rare and costly materials that make up their large battery packs. Economies of scale and new production processes could eventually result in price parity at the point of purchase, but for now prospective buyers will want to look to any available federal and state tax incentives or rebates to offset the cost. Additionally, EVs can be less expensive to operate, potentially saving money over the long term.
Show more
What is the lifespan of an electric car?
Battery degradation is, generally, what shoppers are really asking about with this question. According to a 2019 study, the average EV lost around 2.3% of its range every year, which worked out to around 15 miles for a 150-mile EV over 5 years of ownership. Factors, such as frequent DC fast charging or constant exposure to extreme weather, can accelerate that degradation, but battery technology has improved significantly over the last few years. New cell chemistries are estimated to last longer and the average range for an affordable EV has increased significantly over the last five years. Current estimates from the US Department of Energy put electric cars' lifespan nearly on par with their combustion-powered cousins with an average 8 to 12 year service life.
Show more
What should you look for in a cheap electric car?
A cheap car costs less to purchase, but a truly affordable EV should cost less to own. Consider factors listed above — including your local taxes and incentives, energy efficiency, your area's electricity rates, and even the price for home EV charger installation if applicable — weighing the complete picture against your current combustion ownership costs to determine if an EV is truly an affordable option for you.
Show more
What should you avoid in a cheap electric car?
Low-cost EVs sometimes sacrifice charging speed to deliver that ever-important range number that customers often look to first when comparison shopping. However, if you plan on frequently taking long road trips or don't live where you can reliably charge slowly overnight, the ability to charge easily and as quickly as possible may have a bigger effect on your experience. Consider avoiding EVs that DC fast charge slower than 100 kW and also consider avoiding the depreciated ChaDeMo charging standard (currently only on the Nissan Leaf) which will only become more rare at public DC charging stations versus CCS or NACS (Tesla) connections.And in the interest of keeping your affordable EV's long-term costs low, avoid unnecessary upgrades or options that decrease efficiency or increase maintenance costs. This includes bulky roof racks that you don't plan on ever actually using or large wheels and sticky performance tires that may wear more quickly or require swapping to winter tires (at an additional cost) for part of the year.
Show more
Antuan Goodwin
Read more from Antuan
Antuan started out in the automotive industry the old-fashioned way, by turning wrenches in a driveway and picking up speeding tickets. He now has nearly 20 years of expertise and experience behind the wheel of hundreds of cars, including electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen, and traditional combustion vehicles.
For each car he tests, Antuan covers more than 200 miles behind the wheel and evaluates driving dynamics; acceleration and braking performance; range; and efficiency.
Antuan's goal is to use his extensive car knowledge to educate CNET readers and help with their next car-related buying decision. Whether you're EV-curious, an EV-enthusiast or a combustion-car loyalist, Antuan will bring you the unbiased advice, reviews, best lists and news you need.
You can reach Antuan at antuan.goodwin@cnet.com
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Other Energy Saving Guides
Other Types of Energy
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Portable Power Stations
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced
Home Generator Buying Guide
Heat Pump vs. Furnace
Anker Portable Power Station
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced vs. Nest Thermostat
Nest Learning Thermostat vs. Nest Thermostat
Storage Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart
Living Off the Grid Series
Moving Off- Grid: My Ultimate Pandemic Project Is About More Than Utility Bills
How Living With Solar Panels Demystified Electricity for Me
For Life Off the Grid, Batteries Mean Independence
The Biggest Pros and Cons of Living Off-Grid Arent What I Expected
The Hidden (and Not So Hidden) Expenses of Living Off Grid
My Off-Grid Project: The Secrets I Learned to Save on Solar
Article updated on July 25, 2024 at 12:40 PM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Antuan Goodwin
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Antuan Goodwin Senior Writer, Electrified Cars Antuan started out in the automotive industry the old-fashioned way, by turning wrenches in a driveway and picking up speeding tickets. He now has nearly 20 years of expertise and experience behind the wheel of hundreds of cars, including electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen, and traditional combustion vehicles.
For each car he tests, Antuan covers more than 200 miles behind the wheel and evaluates driving dynamics; acceleration and braking performance; range; and efficiency.
Antuan's goal is to use his extensive car knowledge to educate CNET readers and help with their next car-related buying decision. Whether you're EV-curious, an EV-enthusiast or a combustion-car loyalist, Antuan will bring you the unbiased advice, reviews, best lists and news you need.
You can reach Antuan at antuan.goodwin@cnet.com Expertise Nearly two decades of testing, driving, reporting on, writing about, reviewing, and editing content about electric and ICE cars. Category focus is on electrified cars, EVs, HEVs, PHEVs, ICE cars, EV infrastructure, EV chargers, EV adapters, EV news, auton Credentials North American Car, Truck and SUV of the Year (NACTOY) Awards Juror
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
174175176177178179180+ Experts Interviewed 030405060708091011121314+ Companies Reviewed 108109110111112113+ Products Reviewed
How we test
We thoroughly evaluate each company and product we review and ensure our stories meet our high editorial standards.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.