Senior Principal Investigator, Junior Principal Investigator, and Postdoctoral Positions job with Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences‌ | 12841924
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Senior Principal Investigator, Junior Principal Investigator, and Postdoctoral Positions
Employer
Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences‌
Location
Kunming, Yunnan (CN)
Salary
Competitive salary
Closing date
22 Sep 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Computing,
Life Science,
Mathematics
Job Type
Bioinformatician,
Faculty Member,
Postdoctoral,
Principal Investigator,
Professor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Cluster hire of PIs and postdocs in the fields of evolution, biodiversity conservation and ecology, genetics, neuroscience, brain-computer interface, human disease mechanisms and Interdisciplinary Life Sciences and Computational Sciences.
About the KIZ
The Kunming Institute of Zoology (KIZ) is part of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). Located at the head of the Indo-Burma biodiversity hotspot, KIZ is dedicated to research in the fields of evolution, genetics, human disease mechanisms, ecology, and biodiversity conservation.
KIZ provides a fertile environment for scientific innovation and vibrant interactions, offering competitive remuneration packages and high-quality training programs for graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. The Institute currently has 43 research groups and attracts postgraduate students from around the world. It is home to several major research platforms, including the State Key Laboratory of Genetic Evolution & Animal Models, the National Research Facility for Phenotypic and Genotypic Analysis of Model Animals (our primate facility), and the Kunming National High-level Biosafety Primate Research Centre (Level-3 Lab). For more information, see www.kiz.ac.cn or english.kiz.ac.cn.
KIZ welcomes applications for (1) Senior Principal Investigators, (2) Junior Principal Investigators, and (3) Postdoctoral Fellows from interested individuals of all nationalities and ethnicities.
Position Details
Senior Principal Investigators (Level 3)
To lead large research teams that tackle high-risk/high-reward questions in one or more of the research fields listed above.
Qualifications:
Candidates should have made significant contributions in one or more of the research fields listed above.
Candidates should have shown the ability to independently fund and lead a research team.
Candidates should have demonstrated a high degree of scientific integrity and interest in collaborative research.
Support:
Senior PIs will receive full support from KIZ to establish a research team of research technicians, postdoctoral fellows, and graduate students. In addition, KIZ will provide excellent research facilities, attractive start-up funding, and competitive salary, benefits, and housing subsidy.
Junior Principal Investigators (Level 4)
To establish independent research programs in one or more of the research fields listed above.
Qualifications:
Candidates should have a PhD degree in a relevant field.
Candidates should have excellent scholastic achievements and exhibit the potential to develop into an independent scientist.
Candidates should demonstrate a strong team spirit and a high degree of scientific integrity.
Support:
Junior PIs will be supported with the resources necessary to establish an independent research programme, including start-up funds, laboratory space, and a salary and benefits, including a housing subsidy. A mentorship committee of three senior PIs will provide guidance in research direction and laboratory management.
Postdoctoral Fellows
To join one of the well-funded research laboratories in KIZ, contributing your expertise in evolutionary biology, genetics, molecular and cell biology, ecology, bioinformatics, and/or statistics.
Qualifications:
Candidates should have a PhD degree in a relevant field.
Candidates should demonstrate promising scholastic achievements, commitment to a high degree of scientific integrity, and be ambitious and self-motivated.
Candidates should have the ability to work both independently and as a team member and are encouraged to carry out independent research projects.
Salary description
Salaries for Senior and Junior PIs will be competitive with the international market, depending on experience and achievement level. Salaries for postdoctoral fellows will be commensurate with salary levels in China.
How to Apply (send to kizfsc@mail.kiz.ac.cn)
Cover letter (please specify your target position)
CV (include birthdate, nationality, and full publication list)
Research proposal (3 pages outlining your vision and alignment with KIZ’s research foci)
Contact information for 3 references
Deadline: We will begin assessing applications on 12 September 2025.
Explore: www.kiz.ac.cn
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Senior Principal Investigator, Junior Principal Investigator, and Postdoctoral Positions
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Assistant Professor in Quantum Mathematics
Odense, Fyn (DK)
Associate Professor in Quantum Mathematics
Odense, Fyn (DK)
Postdoc in Quantum System Dynamics & Measurement Theory
Luxembourg, Luxembourg (Canton)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software