‘Shake it off’: Taylor Swift’s changing voice shows how our accents evolve
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
23 September 2025
‘Shake it off’: Taylor Swift’s changing voice shows how our accents evolve
An analysis of Swift’s interviews suggests her speech pattern has changed over her career.
By
Mohana Basu
Mohana Basu
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Researchers have analyzed Taylor Swift's accent in interviews.Credit: Gareth Cattermole/TAS24/Getty Images for TAS Rights ManagementResearchers have confirmed what Taylor Swift fans have long suspected: the music megastar’s dialect and pitch have shifted throughout her career.In the early stages of Swift’s music career, while she was living near Nashville, Tennessee, her speech had the hallmarks of a southern US accent. When she released her pop album Red in 2012, the southern twang had faded, suggest researchers who have analysed her voice1. It changed again when she moved to New York City, they say.A person’s dialect is typically associated with the region they are from, although it can change throughout their lifetime. But being able to study how they change is rare, says Matthew Winn, an audiologist at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities in Minneapolis. “We cannot typically follow someone around with a microphone,” he says.Enter Tay Tay. “Taylor Swift has essentially been followed around with the microphone for most of her adult life,” says Winn.Swift interviewsIn the study published today in The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, Winn and his colleague analysed more than 100 minutes of Swift’s interviews across three distinct eras of her career. In 2008, Swift released Fearless while living near Nashville; in 2012, she released Red; and in 2019, Lover was released when she lived in New York City. The pair used computer software to track how the pronunciation of Swift’s vowels changed. “As a person changes dialects — within English at least — mostly those changes are reflected in the vowels,” says Winn. Early in her career, Swift’s pronunciation of ‘i’ in words such as ‘ride’ became shorter, pronouncing the word more like ‘rod’, which the researchers say is a classic southern US feature. The “oo” sound in words like ‘two’” also changed to sound like ‘tee-you’, another southern signature.Later, Swift’s vowels lengthened around the time she started singing more pop music, with a clearer distinction between words such as ‘cot’ and ‘caught’, which the authors say is a feature of dialects in Pennsylvania, where Swift grew up, and New York. The researchers suggest that these changes reflect Swift’s desire to be part of those communities. “I was one of those people who thought of dialects mainly as reflecting where you come from, but they obviously also reflect what kind of community you want to be a part,” says Winn.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03087-4
ReferencesMohamed, M. & Winn, M. B. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. https://doi.org/10.1121/10.0039052 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Chatbot AI makes racist judgements on the basis of dialect
Have a high-pitched voice? It might be in your genes
How our brains decode speech: special neurons process certain sounds
Brain implant translates thoughts to speech in an instant
Subjects
Media
Society
Software
Latest on:
Media
Society
Software
Do social-media bans benefit young people? These data could offer clues
Comment 01 SEP 25
The vibrant colours of a house-hunting crab — August’s best science image
News 29 AUG 25
Research posts on Bluesky are more original — and get better engagement
News 29 AUG 25
It’s not wokeness — it’s human rights
Career Q&A 24 SEP 25
Universities must move with the times: how six scholars tackle AI, mental health and more
Comment 24 SEP 25
How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
Comment 24 SEP 25
Journals infiltrated with ‘copycat’ papers that can be written by AI
News 23 SEP 25
Six questions to ask before jumping into a spreadsheet
Technology Feature 11 AUG 25
Need to update your data? Follow these five tips
Technology Feature 14 JUL 25
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
Chatbot AI makes racist judgements on the basis of dialect
Have a high-pitched voice? It might be in your genes
How our brains decode speech: special neurons process certain sounds
Brain implant translates thoughts to speech in an instant
Subjects
Media
Society
Software
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited