Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
Credit: APC
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 3 days ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Source: APC
APC UPS Battery Backup and Surge Protector
$69
$84
Save $15
Brand
APC
Load
425 VA / 225 W
Battery
SLA
Outlets
6 (4 connected to battery)
Display
No
A great way to protect the tech you care about. In case you ever lose power, this battery backup will keep you up and running.
$69 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
Depending on where you live, power outages can be a serious problem. However, I think we can all agree that when it happens, it's not a pleasant experience. They happen at the worst times, and there's always the possibility that some of your gear can get damaged. Of course, there's no way to know when you're going to have issues with power, which is why having some protection is the best way to go.
Sure, surge protectors are good, and most of us have them already, but an Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) is an even better option, providing power when you need it most. While there are different options, we think this one from APC is going to be a good one to go with. Not only will it provide power for your most important electronics, but it's also not going to hurt your wallet.
It's time to protect your gear
Credit: APC
The APC BE600M1 is rated for 600VA/330W and features seven AC outlets and one USB port. Five of the outlets will deliver power in the event of an outage, while also protecting against surges. The remaining two outlets will protect against surges, but will not have any additional properties. Now, it's hard to say just how long this backup will work after you lose power, since it depends on the devices you have plugged in, but this particular backup should be able to handle laptops, PCs, and accessories. But at max load, which is 330W, you can get around 3 minutes of usage from this backup. And at 100W, you can expect to get around 23 minutes out of it.
If you're curious, you can always check out the power calculator on the APC website to see just how long this power will last. The good thing is that this should allow most to safely shut down their devices in order prevent damage. And if you're not even around, the APC battery can shut down your Windows or Mac computers automatically.
This is one of those tools that many often skip because power interruptions don't always happen. However, it only takes one incident to cause a huge headache or potentially damage your gear. So if you've been looking for a good reason, we think now's the perfect time to pick one up while it's one sale for $69.
Other Hardware
Power
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
4 days ago
Dozzle is the perfect self-hosted container monitoring and logging tool
5 days ago
This open-source project turns old PCs into voice controllers for Home Assistant - and it's completely free
4 days ago
I used these 5 mods to make Hollow Knight Silksong better, but not easier
4 days ago
You don’t need to spend too much money to start your home lab - here’s how you can do so for cheap
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
How I use Home Assistant to save $250 on energy per year
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
I swapped Trello for Focalboard on my NAS, and it's so much better
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.