3 Traits You Need to Succeed as a Franchisor | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Franchise
3 Traits You Need to Succeed as a Franchisor, According to Top Franchise Leaders
Have what it takes to lead and own a franchise? We asked top franchisors what they're doing to stay on top — and the traits they say helped them succeed.
By
Tracy Stapp Herold
Edited by
Frances Dodds
Aug 12, 2025
Share
Copy
This story appears in the
July 2025
issue of
Entrepreneur.
Subscribe »
Franchise leaders know what it takes to build something that lasts.So we asked some of the top names in the industry to share the traits they believe separate good franchisors from great ones. Whether you already own a franchise or are thinking about getting involved, use this list to reflect on your own approach and find areas to grow. We also asked what they're doing to keep their brands ahead of the curve. Check out their answers below.Related: Why Do Some Franchisees Crush It and Others Fail? It Comes Down to This Formula.We Asked FranchisorsWhat qualities do you think set the best franchisors apart?"They're visionaries, with a game plan. They know how to build a brand that's not just a business, but a movement, and are set apart by their dedication to transparency, consistency, and culture. They give their franchisees the tools, the playbook, and the freedom to win, without losing the essence of what makes the brand great." — Adam Sartin, vice president of franchise growth and development, Motto Mortgage"Good franchisors listen to their owners. Great franchisors create advisory councils and have a feedback loop that allows franchisees to share what is working and opportunities for improvement. The best of the best aggregate mistakes and create open channels for the sharing of best practices among franchisees." — Eric Martin, senior vice president of franchise development, Lawn Doctor"The best franchisors have an entrepreneurial mindset. They approach the business with a creative and innovative spirit, always looking for new opportunities and ways to grow and evolve. An entrepreneurial franchisor is willing to take calculated risks, adapt to changes in the market, and be proactive in driving the success of their franchise network." —Doug Dickison, founder and chairman, Destination Athlete
Related: 4 Reasons Why Local Entrepreneurship Is the Secret Weapon of Great FranchisesWhat is your company doing to stay at the top of your industry?"We've found the perfect sweet spot by cobranding Great American Cookies with our sister brand, Marble Slab Creamery. Since launching this concept in 2014, we've grown to over 170 cobranded locations worldwide, with franchisees seeing a 10% to 20% lift in incremental sales." — Allison Lauenstein, president, Great American Cookies"We stay ahead by continuously investing in technology, enhancing customer experience, and listening closely to our franchise owners. Our focus on operational excellence, brand consistency, and local community engagement helps drive both customer loyalty and raving fans." — Adam Biedenbender, vice president of franchise development, CertaPro Painters"We've focused on delivering a personalized, world-class customer service model that is resilient during uncertain times. And we continue to grow and outperform market conditions by relentlessly listening to our franchisees and customers and pursuing opportunities that earn our customers' loyalty." — Steve Chambers, vice president, retail and business development, The UPS StoreJoin top CEOs, founders and operators at the Level Up conference to unlock strategies for scaling your business, boosting revenue and building sustainable success.
Franchise leaders know what it takes to build something that lasts.So we asked some of the top names in the industry to share the traits they believe separate good franchisors from great ones. Whether you already own a franchise or are thinking about getting involved, use this list to reflect on your own approach and find areas to grow. We also asked what they're doing to keep their brands ahead of the curve. Check out their answers below.Related: Why Do Some Franchisees Crush It and Others Fail? It Comes Down to This Formula.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Tracy Stapp Herold
Entrepreneur Staff
Tracy Stapp Herold is the special projects editor at Entrepreneur magazine. She works on franchise and business opportunity stories and listings, including the annual Franchise 500.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Side Hustle
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
Seth Goldstein, 29, and his friend Steven Rofrano got their business idea after a snack break in Miami.
By
Amanda Breen
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Growing a Business
5 Principles for Building a Business That Thrives When the Economy Doesn't
These five principles helped me grow my business during one of the worst recessions in our lifetimes.
By
Mike Feazel
Business Solutions
One Platform, Every AI Tool You Need for Life
Own lifetime access to the top models for $99.99.
By
Entrepreneur Store
Franchise
These Are the Top 10 Children's Franchises in 2025
Discover the family-focused franchises that earned top spots on Entrepreneur's 2025 Franchise 500 list.
By
Carl Stoffers
Growing a Business
Your Loyalty Program Shouldn't Just Retain Customers — It Should Grow Their Business and Yours
The future of loyalty is a frictionless flywheel that gains momentum with every joint success. Stop incentivizing purchases and start enabling program members' success.
By
Fallon Anawalt
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC