Accessibility Statement for NPR : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Accessibility Statement for NPR NPR's Accessibility Statement
Accessibility
November 16, 20229:32 AM ET
NPR's mission is to work in partnership with Member stations to create a more informed public – one challenged and invigorated by a deeper understanding and appreciation of events, ideas and cultures. To ensure that our content is accessible to all audiences, we have implemented practices and procedures to aid in the accessibility of our content and distribution platforms. NPR currently supports the accessibility of our content with: TranscriptsScreen reader compatibilityVideo captioningKeyboard navigationSkip linksAria labelsColor contrast ratio testing Below are details about some of these efforts, and information about how we work with third parties. Transcripts NPR aspires to make transcripts available for all NPR-produced broadcast shows and podcasts. We publish transcripts as soon as they are available. Because transcripts are generated based on published audio and then reviewed for accuracy, they will not be immediately available at the same time as the story audio. The transcript button appears on the audio player bar for story pages and podcast episode pages at NPR.org. Transcripts are typically published or linked directly on individual story pages at NPR.org. Alternatively, you can access the NPR.org Transcripts page to scan a list of transcripts and filter by publication date. NPR transcripts from as early as 1990 are free in many public libraries. Please note that NPR platforms and products also include some programming produced by third parties and NPR cannot guarantee transcripts for that content. More detail is available in the section on third-party content below. Please email accessibility@npr.org if you aren't able to find a specific transcript and need assistance. Screen reader compatibility NPR works to ensure that our websites and applications are screen reader compatible and guided by the standards recommended by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). We recommend using the most recent versions of web browsers and mobile applications for the best experience. If you encounter any issues, please email accessibility@npr.org for assistance. Video captioning Many NPR-produced editorial videos include captioning. For NPR-produced videos where captions are not currently offered, alternatives may be available. You can send a request to accessibility@npr.org.
Third-party content, distribution channels and venues NPR works with third parties in a variety of ways. In some cases, we distribute content that was produced by third parties and not by NPR. In other cases, third parties distribute NPR-produced content on platforms that are controlled by those third parties and not by NPR. We also host live events at venues across the country. While NPR works with third-party content creators, distribution channels, and venues to consider accessibility, NPR does not control how third parties operate. Certain features and experiences may be different than those usually provided by NPR. If you have questions or feedback about the accessibility of NPR content available through third parties, please email accessibility@npr.org. Below is more information to help you understand how NPR works with third-party content providers, distributors, and venues: Third-party content: NPR makes various types of third-party content available through its platforms, including: (i) content produced by NPR Member stations and other third-party public media organizations; (ii) content linked or embedded from third-party platforms, such as YouTube and Vimeo; and (iii) content sourced from outside photo, audio, and video producers. In addition, NPR platforms may include links to content on third-party websites.Third-party distribution: You may also find NPR content on various third-party distribution channels, including: (i) Member station websites, broadcasts, and digital platforms; and (ii) Commercial and social media platforms, such as third-party platforms where NPR content may be available, for example smart speakers, social media (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, TikTok, and Instagram), and in-car platforms.Emergency alerting: NPR is working to help Member stations enable text emergency alerts to appear on smart car dashboards, smart speakers, mobile phones, and tablets that are synchronized with broadcast content. The alerts, which are produced by local stations, are designed to warn users in the event of natural or man-made disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, chemical spills, wildfires, and boil-water alerts.Live event venues: NPR hosts live events at facilities across the country, and we work with event venues to ensure that the facilities and content are accessible for ticket holders. For information on accessible entry and seating, please contact the applicable venue. For questions about interpreters, content adaptation, or other accommodations, contact NPR directly at nprpresents@npr.org.
We are continually working to ensure an inclusive experience for all audiences, wherever and however people engage with NPR content. We encourage you to check this page regularly for the latest information. If you have feedback or questions about accessibility features, please email accessibility@npr.org. This page was last updated 05/23/25.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor