About MDN
Skip to main content
Skip to search
MDN
HTML
HTML: Markup language
HTML reference
Elements
Global attributes
Attributes
See all…
HTML guides
Responsive images
HTML cheatsheet
Date & time formats
See all…
Markup languages
SVG
MathML
XML
CSS
CSS: Styling language
CSS reference
Properties
Selectors
At-rules
Values & units
See all…
CSS guides
Box model
Animations
Flexbox
Colors
See all…
Layout cookbook
Column layouts
Centering an element
Card component
See all…
JavaScript
JS
JavaScript: Scripting language
JS reference
Standard built-in objects
Expressions & operators
Statements & declarations
Functions
See all…
JS guides
Control flow & error handing
Loops and iteration
Working with objects
Using classes
See all…
Web APIs
Web APIs: Programming interfaces
Web API reference
File system API
Fetch API
Geolocation API
HTML DOM API
Push API
Service worker API
See all…
Web API guides
Using the Web animation API
Using the Fetch API
Working with the History API
Using the Web speech API
Using web workers
All
All web technology
Technologies
Accessibility
HTTP
URI
Web extensions
WebAssembly
WebDriver
See all…
Topics
Media
Performance
Privacy
Security
Progressive web apps
Learn
Learn web development
Frontend developer course
Getting started
Common questions
Curriculum
Learn HTML
Introduction to HTML
Getting started with HTML
Learn CSS
What is CSS
Getting started with CSS
Learn JavaScript
How to use data attributes
Add JavaScript to your web page
Tools
Discover our tools
Playground
HTTP Observatory
Border-image generator
Border-radius generator
Box-shadow generator
Color mixer
Color picker
Shape generator
About
Get to know MDN better
About MDN
Advertise with us
Community
MDN on GitHub
Blog
About
About MDN
Empowering developers worldwide to build a better, open web
45K Pages of content
7 Languages
46M Monthly pageviews
Who we are
MDN is an open-source, collaborative project owned by Mozilla Corporation and
developed by Mozilla, in partnership with a global community of volunteers and
partners. Mozilla’s MDN team leads the platform’s development, content strategy,
and overall direction, while the community actively
contributes to content creation, translations, and browser compatibility
improvements, ensuring MDN remains a vital and evolving resource for all.
What we offer
Our journey
Our core values
Our team
Our partners
MDN Web Docs
Your comprehensive resource for web development documentation, covering
everything from CSS, HTML,
JavaScript, Web APIs, and
other web technologies.
MDN Learn
Ideal for beginners, MDN Learn offers guides and a
structured curriculum to kickstart your web development
journey. Enhance your learning with interactive courses from our partner,
Scrimba.
MDN Blog
Stay updated with the latest in web development. Our blog
features updates, tips, tutorials from web experts, MDN announcements, and
curated sponsored content.
MDN Plus
Experience a personalized MDN with our premium subscription service. Enjoy
features like AI-powered assistance and
Collections to streamline your workflow.
MDN Tools
Experiment and learn with tools like Playground for live coding
and HTTP Observatory for analyzing website security,
designed to enhance your development experience.
From our beginnings to becoming the go-to resource for web developers worldwide,
here's how we've evolved:
2005
Launched as
DevMo by Mozilla,
a community-driven wiki dedicated to documenting open web standards.
2010
Rebranded as
Mozilla Developer Network (MDN),
reinforcing our commitment to the developer community.
2017
Achieved a milestone when major tech companies began contributing and
supporting web documentation on our platform, solidifying MDN as the central
hub for web development knowledge.
2020
Transitioned from its wiki-based origins to a modern,
GitHub-hosted project with the launch of Yari,
modernizing our infrastructure and workflows.
2022
Unveiled a
major redesign and
introduced
MDN Plus,
offering personalized features for an enhanced user experience.
2023/2024
Launched new tools, including Playground for coding experiments, AI Help for
easier content discovery, and HTTP Observatory for website security scans. We
also introduced a Blog to cover interesting topics beyond MDN’s core focus,
and a Curriculum to provide a structured approach to learning web development.
Discover more
We had fun exploring the
internet archives
and putting together a fast-forward trip through our transformation!
Accurate and reliable
MDN is built on the fundamental principle of accuracy, which has established
it as the trusted source of web documentation globally. We are committed to
providing expertly curated and rigorously reviewed content to maintain the
highest standards of quality and accuracy. Our dedication is backed by the
best developer community in the world—a passionate group of contributors who
help us enhance and refine our documentation. We welcome the knowledge and
experience of our diverse developer community to ensure that millions of users
can rely on MDN daily for up-to-date and accurate information.
Collaborative and community-driven
MDN is a Mozilla project that is powered by its global community. We are a
diverse group of developers, writers, and technologists working together to
build resources for a better web. Our open-source approach welcomes
contributions from anyone. Each of the individuals who have
contributed over the past decades has strengthened MDN. Through our GitHub
repository, contributors can make changes and get their work reviewed and
integrated into MDN’s content.
Inclusive and dynamic
MDN is committed to providing documentation for a wide range of web
technologies while continuously adapting to the changing landscape of web
development. We strive to create content that’s relevant and valuable to
developers working across different browsers and platforms. We are dedicated
to regularly updating our resources to reflect the latest standards and best
practices, helping developers stay current in a rapidly changing field.
Our mission
At MDN, our mission is to provide developers with the resources they need to
create innovative and accessible web experiences. We offer a free,
high-quality, and comprehensive platform that includes documentation on
essential web technologies like CSS,
HTML, JavaScript, and
Web APIs. Our learning materials
are tailored for a diverse audience—from beginners and students to professors
teaching web development.
From technical writers and engineers to product and community managers, we are a
diverse group dedicated to driving MDN’s mission, growth, and success. Get to
know the people behind MDN and discover what motivates us to keep you at the
forefront of web development!
Joe Walker
Senior Director
@joewalker
Joe is based in London and has been at Mozilla since 2009. He got interested in Mozilla after suddenly being anointed as the maintainer of Venkman, a precursor to Firebug. He later worked on and managed Firebug and Firefox DevTools. Since 2020, he's managed various teams across Firefox Web Platform, including looking after the core parts of Firefox that you don't usually see—like JavaScript and the DOM. In 2025, he took on the leadership of MDN as well. Joe sometimes works from his office at the bottom of a disused canal, with three chickens and a few newts for company.
Ruth John
Senior Manager
@Rumyra
Based in the UK, Ruth has been working on MDN since 2017. Starting out as a
contracting technical writer documenting fun Web APIs, she joined the team
full-time in 2021 and now heads up the content and community teams. She has
always been a big supporter of the web platform due to her long experience as
a front-end developer and cares deeply about the accuracy and usefulness of
MDN for its developer audience. In her spare time, you can find her walking
her dog Yoshi or in her studio, where she enjoys sewing, sculpting, painting,
and anything else that takes her away from a screen.
Glob
Senior Engineering Manager
@globau
Based in Perth, Australia, Glob started as a contributor before officially joining Mozilla in 2011. A former full stack engineer focused on improving engineering productivity, he moved into full-time management in mid-2020. He now manages the MDN engineering team, as well as the Firefox DevTools and WebDriver-BiDi teams. Outside of work, he spends his time on family, code, and games.
Dipika Bhattacharya
Staff Technical Writer
@dipikabh
Dipika works out of Toronto. She joined the MDN team in 2022, bringing her
background in instructional design to the role. She is passionate about
delivering clear and concise documentation to make complex concepts easy to
understand, paying special attention to how information is organized and
presented. She cares about improving the clarity, usability, and
discoverability of MDN’s documentation. Outside of work, she loves exploring
the city, discovering unique coffee shops, and trying different cuisines.
Vadim Makeev
Staff Technical Writer
@pepelsbey
Based in Berlin, Vadim has been working on MDN since 2023. He combines his
previous experience as a front-end developer with a deep passion for browsers
and the web platform. Before joining Mozilla, he worked as a DevRel for the
Opera browser, authored front-end courses, and was also involved in organizing
conferences and meetups. In his spare time, he goes on bikepacking trips,
hangs out on punk gigs, and records podcasts and videos in his home studio.
Brian Smith
Staff Technical Writer
@bsmth
Brian has been with MDN since 2022. He lives in Berlin. With around 20 years
of experience hacking on web technologies and working full-time as a technical
writer since 2016, Brian is passionate about open-source software and writing
docs that make complex concepts fun and easy to grasp for people of all
levels. Before joining Mozilla, Brian worked on a TypeScript-like language
specification, a time series database, and REST API documentation for cloud
services. Outside of work, he enjoys exploring new European destinations with
family, discovering local coffee shops, and using music gear as long as it
doesn't have a screen.
Dave Letorey
Technical Writer
@dletorey
Based in London, UK, Dave has been with MDN since 2022 where he's been focused
on Firefox release documentation, particularly HTML, CSS and SVG updates. He's
passionate about web standards, accessibility, performance and digital
inclusion. He is constantly learning about new web technologies and standards.
Outside of work he loves live music and tries to attend as many gigs and music
festivals as he can. He particularly loves post-punk, indie, house and techno.
He also attends many conferences and meetups and is an organizer of
London Web Standards &
State of the Browser. He also has a large
collection of red hats, so is easy to spot in the wild. He is never happier
than when in a field with his friends.
Chris Mills
Technical Writer and Product Strategist
@chrisdavidmills
Based in Greenfield, UK, Chris has been part of MDN since 2013, initially as a
technical writer and then as the writers' team lead until 2021. He came back
on board as a contractor in 2022 to document new technologies and contribute
to various MDN products and initiatives. Chris loves tinkering with CSS and
JavaScript and is passionate about accessibility and semantics. Outside work,
he is obsessed with loud, heavy music, and plays drums and guitar. He enjoys
cycling, country walks, and spending time with his wife and three awesome
kids.
Hamish Willee
Technical Writer
@hamishwillee
Based in Melbourne, Australia, Hamish has been with MDN since 2014, initially
on short-term contracts for various projects. From 2020, he’s been focused on
Firefox release documentation, particularly Web API and HTTP updates, while
also contributing to other aspects of the open-source project. He’s passionate
about efficient processes that maximize time for creating clear, concise, and
maintainable documentation. Hamish values that his writing reaches thousands
of developers and enjoys working with the diverse community to make expert
knowledge accessible to everyone in a clear format. Outside work, he brews
beer, reads science fiction and fantasy, enjoys running, and likes drones.
Andi Pieper
Staff Software Engineer
@argl
Andi lives in Berlin. He joined the MDN team in 2023. He is focused on keeping
up the high quality of MDN and ensuring that it remains an accessible,
competent, and friendly help for anyone concerned with the web, regardless of
their level of expertise. Growing up with the internet of the 90s, Andi has
worked on a multitude of projects on the web over the years, occasionally
veering off into desktop and mobile development. Apart from his daytime
obligations, he enjoys creating organized noise.
Claas Augner
Senior Software Engineer
@caugner
Based in Paris, Claas has been working as a Software Engineer in the MDN team
since 2022. He is passionate about clean code and continuous improvement. He
enjoys entertaining (the team), and maintaining (the platform). Outside of
work, he loves baking rye sourdough breads and playing cooperative board
games.
Leo McArdle
Senior Software Engineer
@LeoMcA
A London-based long-term Mozilla contributor, Leo has been working on MDN
since 2022 and volunteering for Mozilla since around 2008. As a self-taught
developer, largely through MDN, he cares about making the website discoverable
and functional for everyone. In his free time, he can be found cycling around
the city, photographing panoramas, or watching almost every sport imaginable,
from cricket to karting.
Pranshu Khanna
Staff Community Manager
@pransh15
Pranshu has been a long-term contributor to Mozilla as a Rep. Based in Berlin,
he joined the MDN team in 2024. He works on moderating, growing and managing
MDN’s awesome community. Pranshu is passionate about building a healthy and
inclusive community for developers and helping them build better. Before
working at Mozilla, Pranshu gained extensive experience in growing developer
communities for startups, organizing conferences like GraphQL Conf. 2021 &
2022, and running global programs for devs and students around AI, Web, and
DevOps. In his free time, he likes to play football in any form - physical,
digital, and fantasy.
Sonal Sood
Senior Product Manager
@s-sood
Sonal lives in Berlin. She has been with MDN since 2022. As a product manager,
she is adept at identifying and prioritizing features that truly meet users'
needs. With a strong background in data analysis and product management, she
is always focused on delivering valuable and impactful products that make a
difference. In her free time, Sonal enjoys cycling, running, and practicing
yoga.
Miruna Curtean
Quality Assurance
@mirunacurtean
Miruna calls Cluj-Napoca, Romania home. Contracting with Mozilla since 2019,
she worked on Firefox Add-ons and Mozilla Support before switching to MDN
in 2022. She focuses on analyzing requirements and community issues, building
comprehensive test bases, and ensuring delivered features meet requirements.
Before Mozilla, she worked in game development and e-commerce but found
greater joy in website development, particularly inspired by its community
aspect. Outside of work, Miruna enjoys story-based entertainment including
books, movies, shows, anime, and podcasts.
Product Advisory Board
Rachel Andrew
Content Lead at Google
Rachel has been working on the web as a developer since 1996 and writing about web development for almost as long. She now works for Google as Content Lead for Chrome Developer Relations, owning the content strategy of web.dev and developer.chrome.com, and is also a lead on the Baseline project. Rachel is a CSS Working Group member and specification editor, and in the past has been a contributor to MDN as a contractor for Mozilla and for Google.
Photo © Drew McLellan.
Robert Nyman
Web Developer Relations at Google
Robert wants to make the web the best platform for developers and has always been heavily invested in the community and helping developers succeed. Prior to Google, Robert was a technical evangelist at Mozilla, focused on the Open Web and the company's various products and initiatives. He's a co-founder of Open Web Docs, lives in Stockholm, has a passion for traveling and meeting people, and has given presentations in 42 countries.
Patrick Brosset
Senior Product Manager, Microsoft Edge
Patrick Brosset is a senior Product Manager on the Microsoft Edge web platform team, where he drives efforts around developer advocacy, documentation, and evangelism for the web platform. Patrick has worked with the web for more than 20 years, and on web browsers at Mozilla and Microsoft, including on developer tools, web apps, and the rendering engine for over a decade. He is a member of the Governing Committee at Open Web Docs, and a co-chair of the W3C WebDX Community Group.
Dominique Hazael-Massieux
Web Technology Expert including Web, W3C
Dominique Hazael-Massieux is part of the W3C staff, leading W3C
efforts in developer relations. Dom has been working for W3C since 2000,
and in addition to dev rel, is currently involved in the standardization
of WebRTC, WebNN and looking over the systemic impact of AI on the Web.
Dom also sits on the W3C Board of Directors and on the Open Web Docs
Governing Committee.
Carmen Cañas
Technical Project Manager, Bocoup
Carmen Cañas is part of the worker-owner team at Bocoup where she manages web platform projects and product development projects with a special focus on accessibility and privacy. Before joining Bocoup, she spent over 10 years building open source projects in Latin America and Africa, with a focus on implementing open data standards for publishing government data.
Carmen lives between Cuzcatlán (El Salvador) and Tkaronto (Toronto).
Laura Morinigo
Web Developer Advocate
Laura is a software developer, advocate, and mentor, passionate about sharing her knowledge and connecting with tech communities worldwide. She has been recognized as a Google Developer Expert and a Woman Techmakers Ambassador for her contributions. As a mentor, she has supported startups in accelerator programs like Google Launchpad and the United Nations’ World Food Programme. Currently, Laura contributes to web standards and advocates for advanced web features, helping developers build more inclusive and impactful web applications.
Open Web Docs
Open Web Docs (OWD), an independent open source organization, is one of the most productive contributors to MDN Web Docs. OWD contributes as part of their mission to support “web platform documentation for the benefit of web developers & designers worldwide.” The team at OWD has led or contributed to many projects to improve documentation on MDN. They're an invaluable partner in the day-to-day work of making MDN. Read more about OWD’s activities in their 2024 Impact and Transparency Report and get continuous updates on their Mastodon account.
Florian Scholz
Director
@Elchi3
Florian Scholz is the Director of Open Web Docs. He began volunteer editing MDN as a teen in 2009 and previously worked at Mozilla as MDN's Lead Content Strategist, Technical Writer & Documentation Engineer from 2013 until 2020. He's one of the creators of the browser compatibility data (BCD) project and it makes him happy when open source projects collaborate. He lives in Bremen, Germany; not Berlin. Other than submitting and reviewing PRs on GitHub, he enjoys listening to wave and post-punk music.
Will Bamberg
Sr. Technical Writer and Documentation Engineer
@wbamberg
Will Bamberg is a perfectionist and professional pedant who has been writing about the web for a long time, mostly on MDN. He enjoys learning about new aspects of the web platform and then turning that knowledge into accessible documentation. He believes that writing good documentation depends on understanding what it's like for someone who is learning something new or looking for the answer to their question.
Estelle Weyl
Sr. Technical Writer and Developer Advocate
@estelle
Estelle Weyl is a Sr. Technical Writer and Developer Advocate on the Open Web Docs team. She is a frontend engineer, writing CSS, JS and HTML since 1999. Estelle has always been a web standardista, advocating for a free, accessible, and performant web. Estelle has been documenting and teaching web standards since 2007, writing numerous books, blogs, and tutorials. She’s typing with her cat (who thinks he's a dog) and dog (who thinks she's a cat) in San Francisco.
Queen Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu
Compat Data Engineer
@queengooborg
Vinyl works for Open Web Docs leading the browser compatibility data (BCD) project that millions of developers around the world rely on. Previously a contractor at Google and Mozilla and a long-time BCD community member, Vinyl has a lot of experience with compatibility on the open web. She was already the number #1 contributor to the BCD repository before officially joining our team! When she's not submitting pull requests to BCD, she's usually slicing blocks to the music in Beat Saber or staffing at various conventions across the globe.
Global impact
Serving over 15 million users monthly from around the globe, MDN connects
developers with the tools and information they need to easily build projects on
the open web.
Educational influence: Our resources are integral to many coding bootcamps and
university courses worldwide.
Trusted reference: Platforms like freeCodeCamp and Codecademy frequently link
to MDN articles as authoritative references.
Industry standard: Tools like Can I use leverage
MDN’s browser compatibility data
for up-to-date information on web feature support across browsers.
Collaborative partnerships: We work closely with partners such as
Open Web Docs,
Microsoft,
Google, Igalia,
W3C, and others to drive web innovation and serve the
common good.
Join us in building a better web
Be a part of our mission to foster innovation and inclusivity on the web.
Start contributing today and make a lasting impact
on the global developer community.
Your blueprint for a better internet.
MDN
About
Blog
Mozilla careers
Advertise with us
MDN Plus
Product help
Contribute
MDN Community
Community resources
Writing guidelines
MDN Discord
MDN on GitHub
Developers
Web technologies
Learn web development
Guides
Tutorials
Glossary
Hacks blog
Website Privacy Notice
Cookies
Legal
Community Participation Guidelines
Visit Mozilla Corporation’s not-for-profit parent, the Mozilla Foundation.
Portions of this content are ©1998–⁨2025⁩ by individual mozilla.org contributors. Content available under a Creative Commons license.