About Taste of Home: Who We Are, What We Do & Our Products
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
About Taste of Home
Taste of Home was founded in 1993 on a simple premise: Home cooks are the best cooks. Special recipes are at the heart of so many of our warmest memories—families gathered around holiday tables or celebrating special occasions with friends. Even neighborhood potlucks, impromptu cookouts and simple weeknight dinners are made better by sharing from-scratch dishes made with love.
It has been our privilege to share recipes and cooking inspiration with millions of people for almost three decades through our magazines, books, videos and website.
Who We Are
Our Home Cooks
Taste of Home’s network of home cooks is the heart of the brand. Passionate about food and entertaining, they have their own home test kitchens, creating new recipes and sharing the stories behind them with us. Our recipe contests provide opportunities for home cooks to win cash prizes for dishes judged the best by the Taste of Home editors (enter a contest now).
We also have a dedicated team of Community Cooks: home cooks from around the U.S. and Canada who share what’s cooking in their own kitchens and neighborhoods. They represent Taste of Home in their communities, contribute in every issue of the magazine and provide expertise for many of our digital articles. Our audience includes people from all walks of life with varied backgrounds, interests and perspectives—all are welcome here.
Our Editors
Taste of Home’s editors are home cooks just like you, but we’re journalists, too. We know how to hunt down the latest trends, spotlight people who are making a difference and evaluate products and services that we know our readers will love. We’re always looking for great recipes to delight our family and friends and genius cooking tips that help us get the job done. From smart grocery shopping hints and guidance on the best kitchen appliances to timesaving weeknight meals and creative party planning, we love to uncover and share ways to bring people together.
Our Test Kitchen
The pros in our Test Kitchen come from culinary schools and restaurants across the country. They put every recipe through the paces before publication to ensure the best results when you make it yourself (see “What We Do” for details). They tweak and adjust proportions of ingredients and provide great ideas for variations and substitutions. When they’re not hard at work in our Test Kitchen, the test cooks star in our cooking videos, providing step-by-step instruction, and tips and tricks needed to turn out delicious results every time.
What We Do
Home cooks send us about 10,000 recipes every year. But before a recipe is published, it must be Test Kitchen-approved. Here’s how it works:
Our knowledgeable food editors review each recipe we receive and send the best candidates to the Test Kitchen. Testing every step, our Test Kitchen cooks ensure the amounts, equipment, temperature and method are accurate. If something doesn’t turn out as expected, they make adjustments until the recipe is right.
The Test Kitchen hosts tasting panels, where a group of expert editors and culinary staff evaluates them on flavor, texture, appearance and ease of preparation. When we’re satisfied, we send the recipe back to the Test Kitchen for final preparation, then to the photo studio to be styled and shot. At that point, the recipe is ready to be published so you can make it in your own kitchen.
We don’t stop with recipes: our team tests packaged foods, kitchen gadgets and cleaning supplies, too. We’ve spent countless hours vetting products in our thorough testing process to determine the best. Winners earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval.
Our Editorial Process
For more than three decades, Taste of Home has been providing its audience with recipes, cooking tips and entertaining ideas that inspire home cooks in their everyday lives and on special occasions. In addition to having our own staff of experts, we hire contributors who have honed their skills through years of experience in the food and beverage industries, and passionate cooks and bakers who have translated their culinary knowledge into careers as respected creators.
At Taste of Home, we pride ourselves on the reliability of our content and employ expert editors to ensure the accuracy of the information and advice we share. From our origin as a magazine publisher to our status as a multiplatform media brand, we also use the latest tools and technologies to ideate stories that answer our audience’s most pressing culinary questions and encourage them to cook, bake and entertain. This includes leveraging artificial intelligence tools approved by the company as part of our editorial process, from identifying and researching important topics to uncovering home cooks’ most frequently asked questions.
As the world changes, we will continue to experiment, adapt and leverage leading-edge technology in the planning and creation of compelling, high-quality and trustworthy content. Leading the charge in using these tools are humans—editors, writers and culinary staff who bring unmatched wisdom, experience and creativity to our editorial process. These talented team members and contributors are essential to maintaining the journalistic integrity and creativity that are core to our brand values. No matter what technologies surface in the years to come, real people will remain essential to every step of our editorial process, and an experienced team member will review and vet each piece before it is published.
Our Products
From a flagship magazine to cookbooks to our very own cookware line, Taste of Home has all the products and resources you need to cook and entertain like a pro.
Magazine
Special Issues
Newsstand Books
Subscription Books
Taste of Home Cookware & Bakeware
Special Delivery Box
Contact Us
Have a cooking question or an issue with the website? Contact us.
Get Our Newsletters
Work with Us
Advertise with Us
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box