Real Estate Investors With 28 Units Explain How to Create Positive Cash Flow - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Markets
A couple earning six figures from 28 rental units explains how they use a 'buy box' to ensure positive cash flow
By
Kathleen Elkins
Ted and Jamie Garber own 28 rental units across 15 properties in Florida.
Ted and Jamie Garber
2025-09-24T09:30:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Ted and Jamie Garber own 28 rental units in Florida, focusing on cash flow and ROI.
They started investing in 2020 to create an additional revenue stream.
They're looking for undervalued properties in their market that satisfy the 1% rule.
Real estate investors Ted and Jamie Garber have specific cash flow and ROI goals for each of their rental properties.
"Each rental needs to shed cash flow immediately and, on average, pay back our initial investment within three to six years," Ted told Business Insider, adding that they treat each unit as if it's its own miniature business.The Florida-based couple started buying rentals in 2020 to create an additional revenue stream and accelerate their progress toward financial independence. As of 2025, they own 28 units across 15 commercial and residential properties, which Business Insider confirmed through the Brevard County Property Appraiser.
Their average cash-on-cash return is just north of 20%, said Ted.To guarantee immediate cash flow, they've narrowed down their "buy box" — the set of criteria they've established that they want to see in a property before purchasing. Here's exactly what they're looking for.1. Properties in their backyard. The Garbers, who live on the east coast of Florida in Brevard County, like to keep their investment properties close to home — at least for now.
"We're still focused on our backyard. It's still appreciating. It's still in high demand," said Ted, who manages each of their 15 properties. While they'd eventually like to expand to different markets, there is enough opportunity on the Space Coast to keep them busy in the near future.2. Affordability. "Our buy box is affordable housing — not low, not high — something that just the everyday person can rent," said Ted, adding that they prefer to rent at or below market rates. "That allows us to get a lot of applications to really be able to pick and choose our tenants. And, our tenants value the fact that they're renting slightly below market rate, so they're going to want to take care of the place. They're getting a deal, and we're still making money from it all."3. Undervalued properties. One of the reasons the couple can offer at or below market rent is because they won't purchase unless they've secured an excellent deal. They subscribe to the principle that "you make money on the buy," said Ted.
To find undervalued properties or negotiable deals, "we would look for things that had been sitting for a while — maybe the marketing wasn't very good or it needed a cosmetic renovation," said Jamie.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Ted added that they're not looking for a major renovation project: "Part of the buy box is looking for smaller lift, value-add things like paint and floors. We also look for listings that don't have the best pictures and aren't marketed correctly."
Before and after photos from one of the Garbers' kitchen renovations.
Courtesy of Ted and Jamie Garber
The 1% rule of real estateThe Garbers constantly look at listings in their area. When they come across something in their buy box, the next step is to see if the property will satisfy the "1% rule."
This general rule of thumb suggests that to create positive cash flow, the monthly rent of your property should be at least 1% of the purchase price."So, if you're looking at a condo that is $120,000, you need to be able to rent it for $1,200 a month," said Ted, noting that it's become more difficult in the past couple of years to satisfy this rule with rising interest rates, insurance rates, and condo fees. They'd ideally have a buffer: For example, renting a $120,000 condo for $1,500 a month.They have the advantage of already owning several long-term rentals and understanding typical rental rates in their area, but you can use tools like Zillow to get a feel for rent in your market.
While their main focus is on cash flow, they're reaping more benefits from owning real estate."There's appreciation — adding to your net worth and your end goal; depreciation, so the ability to offset your income and your taxes; and then another main benefit is that your tenants are paying off your mortgage for you," explained Ted."If we factor in all those other things, we're at more than a 30% return on investment throughout the portfolio."
Recommended video
Real Estate
Real Estate Investing
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account