The Dragon Prince creators are running a Kickstarter for a spinoff series
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The Dragon King will feature the same co-creators and many of the voice actors
The Dragon Prince fans are funding a spinoff series starring Liam O’Brien
By
Samantha Nelson
Published 6 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
The Dragon Prince
Related
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
1 day ago
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
1 day ago
Fire Emblem: Fortune's Weave is looking more like a prequel than a sequel
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Netflix
The sometimes deep, sometimes crude Netflix animated epic fantasy series The Dragon Prince ended its seven-season run in December, but co-creators Aaron Ehasz and Justin Richmond want to continue the story. After debuting the idea for The Dragon King at San Diego Comic-Con, they’ve turned to fans for help with a Kickstarter campaign. The project has already earned double its original $250,000 goal, with backers pledging more than $570,000. The new storyline would kick off seven years after the events of The Dragon Prince and follow the ascension of the Dragon Prince Zym. As he establishes a fragile peace in the magical land of Xadia, Zym finds his rule threatened by the return of an exile with a claim to the throne.
Ehasz, who previously worked on Avatar: The Last Airbender, and Richmond will helm the new series along with regular The Dragon Prince director Villads Spangsberg. Returning characters voiced by their original actors include the wizard Prince Callum (Jack De Sena), the elf assassin Rayla (Paula Burrows), and the dark mage Claudia (Racquel Belmonte). Dante Basco, who played Prince Zuko on Avatar: The Last Airbender, voiced Zym in The Dragon Prince finale – the young dragon just made animalistic noises throughout most of the series – and he’ll have a much larger role in The Dragon King. They will be joined by Critical Role’s Liam O’Brien playing a new character named Luna Devorans. Backers will get a variety of perks including access to a Discord and special swag like a patch depicting Zym or a plushie version of Callum's pet glow toad bait. At the highest levels, they can even earn producer credits, minor speaking roles, and a studio tour. The money will be used to fund the creation of teasers that can be used to pitch the show in Hollywood. If the Kickstarter earns $1 million, O’Brien and some of the show’s other stars will appear in an actual play one-shot using Tales of Xadia, the show’s official tabletop role-playing game published by Dire Wolf Digital.
Animation
TV
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
9 hours ago
One of the best horror movie trilogies is getting a deluxe treatment
11 hours ago
Embrace the ultimate childhood party game with Bop It: The Video Game
12 hours ago
Him director Justin Tipping explains Marlon Wayans' 'terrifying' moment on set
2 days ago
James Gunn's Superman is coming to HBO Max this week
Most Popular
Shelby Oaks should kickstart Chris Stuckmann's horror movie career
The Dragon Prince fans are funding a spinoff series starring Liam O’Brien
Hamish Linklater describes The Boys and Gen V showrunner Eric Kripke in a normal way
Tencent punches back at Horizon Zero Dawn lawsuit, says game isn't that unique
A horror legend's zombie legacy continues in Queens of the Dead
Prime Video’s new animated comedy pays tribute to Batman & Robin
See More
Trending Now
A new KPop Demon Hunters film is on the way
Geralt's 'blood-soaked' new adventure revealed in The Witcher: Blood Stone first look
One of the best arcs in One Piece is finally coming to Netflix
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.