Best Gaming Laptop for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechComputing Laptops
Best Gaming Laptop for 2025
We've got the top picks for the best gaming laptops from companies like Alienware, HP, Asus, Acer and more.
Our Experts
Written by
Lori Grunin
Article updated on January 27, 2025 at 1:50 PM PST
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats. Expertise Photography | PCs and laptops | Gaming and gaming accessories
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
The sweet spot -- for mainstream 1440p gaming and an RTX 4070 GPU that will last you longer without sacrificing AAA play -- sits roughly between $1,200 and $2,000, depending upon what you're willing to sacrifice.
Operating system
Microsoft Windows is the most popular choice for gaming laptops, but if you've got an M3 Pro or better or an M4 MacBook, Apple's been working with developers to increase the prominent games for MacOS.
Screen
Most gaming laptops feature large displays between 14 and 18 inches; the older and cheaper models generally have 15.6- or 17-inch models. OLED delivers the highest contrast, most colorful and fastest displays, but you might want to look for HDR support, which they don't always have.
Processor
Intel and AMD are the main CPU makers for gaming laptops; most games depend on the GPU for their graphics performance, but sims and other games that populate worlds based on player or environmental interactions use the CPU quite a bit, so look for at least a Core i7 HX and better or AMD 8040HS-series CPUs or faster.
Graphics
All gaming laptops will feature a dedicated GPU from either Nvidia or AMD (and to a far lesser extent, Intel). Nvidia is the most popular and generally the best performing for the money. Look for an RTX 40xx or Radeon 7000-series discrete GPU or later.
Memory
For memory, we highly recommend at least 16GB of RAM; 8GB will hamper performance in a lot of cases.
Storage
1TB is good; more is usually better, depending upon how much extra it costs.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you're already on the lookout for the best gaming laptop to buy this year, the question is: Buy now or wait? The new models -- and the chips they'll ride in on -- launched at CES 2025: the biggies from Intel, AMD and Nvidia. But the refreshed laptops don't usually ship until between March and June, so you may want to pause buying or take advantage of dropping prices on older models as retailers try to make room for the upgraded ones. And it will be some time after that until we've got a decent number of them tested, reviewed and ready for recommending on this list. You can also check out the best laptops overall and our favorite laptops from CES. Our Picks
Best overall gaming laptop Asus ROG Zephyrus G16 (2024)
Jump to details
$2,275 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best budget gaming laptop Acer Predator Helios Neo 16
Jump to details
$1,146 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best performing gaming laptop Alienware m18 R2
Jump to details
$1,900 at Alienware
Jump to details
Best MacBook for gamers Apple MacBook Pro 16 M4 Pro
Jump to details
$2,249 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best 14-inch for gamers and creators Asus ROG Zephyrus G14
Jump to details
$1,750 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best general-purpose laptop for gaming
HP Omen Transcend 14
Jump to details
$1,425 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best budget gaming laptop for 1440p
Alienware m16 R2
Jump to details
$1,750 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 2 more
LAPTOP DEALS OF THE WEEK
Chromebook Plus at Best Buy (Trade in any laptop for extra $50 off):  $139 (save $50)
Best Buy — M4 MacBook Pro 14 (Save Up to $300 With Trade-In):  $1,999 (save $300)
Dell Inspiron 16 Plus 7640 Intel Ultra 9 512GB SSD 16GB RAM 16-inch Touch Laptop (Windows 11 Pro):  $850 (save $750)
Lenovo ThinkPad E14 Gen 6 Intel Ultra 7 512GB SSD 16GB RAM 14-inch Touch Laptop:  $979 (save $240)
HP OmniBook X Flip Ryzen AI 7 1TB SSD 24GB RAM 14-inch 2K 2-in-1 Laptop:  $750 (save $350) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Gaming Laptop for 2025
What is the best laptop overall?
Best gaming laptops
Asus ROG Zephyrus G16 (2024)
Acer Predator Helios Neo 16
Alienware m18 R2
Apple MacBook Pro 16 M4 Pro
Asus ROG Zephyrus G14
HP Omen Transcend 14
Alienware m16 R2
Other notable gaming laptops we've tested
Factors to consider when buying a gaming laptop
What to consider
Gaming Laptop FAQs
How we test computers
How we test laptops
What is the best laptop overall?My favorite model that has a good balance of price, weight, performance, screen and design at the moment is the Asus ROG Zephyrus G16. The model we tested is relatively pricey at $2,700 for an upscale configuration with a 16-inch OLED screen, RTX 4080, 32GB RAM, 1TB SSD and an Intel Core Ultra 9 185H. Solid configurations start at $2,000. I consider it the best general choice for gaming, but its little sibling -- the G14 -- is a little more highly rated because of its more general-use advantages, like size, weight and lower price.The best of the budget gaming models is the Acer Predator Helios Neo 16. Acer knows how to wring performance out of every component, and this one is fast for its low-end RTX 4050 graphics, which is sufficient for 1080p gaming and a bright display. My recommendations for the best laptops are based on our benchmark-based and hands-on testing (we play games, too). We continually test laptops, so we'll be updating our recommendations as we review the latest models.Read more:Best Gaming MonitorBest gaming laptops
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best overall gaming laptop
Asus ROG Zephyrus G16 (2024)
Pros
Excellent fast, calibrated OLED screen
Well designed
Performance vs size reasonably balanced
Good port selection
Cons
Battery life is just okay
Big power brick
Bottom and hinge area can get hot
Settings in Armoury Crate software can get confusing
Both the G16 and its smaller 14-inch sibling are excellent gaming laptops and very similar, but I chose the 16-inch, mostly for the larger screen, more powerful GPU and broader port selection. It's also a good pick for creative work, thanks to the calibrated OLED display.   ... Show more
Get it now
$2,275 at Best Buy
Learn more
Asus ROG Zephyrus G16 (2024) review
Matt Elliott/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Matt Elliott/CNET
Best budget gaming laptop
Acer Predator Helios Neo 16
Pros
Leading 3D performance among budget gaming laptops
Plastic keyboard deck is solid
Aluminum top cover adds durability
Roomy and bright 16-inch, 16:10 display
Crisp, 1080p webcam
Plenty of ports, including Thunderbolt 4
Cons
Bulky and heavy
Design borrows liberally from Acer's entry-level Nitro 16
Weak audio output
Short battery life
Acer's mainstream value gaming line, a step up from the Nitro and a step below its straight Predator Helios models, this 16-inch model starts at roughly $1,000 (look for it on sale too) and squeezes excellent performance from the lower-end components, making it one of the best performers among budget gaming laptops. It's got a lot of plastic, but it's still solidly built, the 1,920x1,200 165Hz display is bright and it has plenty of ports and a 1080p webcam. We reviewed a Core i5 model, but there are different configurations for less money that should perform better which are available now.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,146 at Amazon
Learn more
Acer Predator Helios Neo 16 review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best performing gaming laptop
Alienware m18 R2
Pros
Excellent performance for a portable
Lots of connections
Functional design
Cons
Heavy
Display is just OK
Can get loud
Alienware offered one of the first of the new 18-inch models, and with the R2 it streamlined the design. The big screen is great for gaming as well as for work, and because of all the space, it can deliver class-leading performance with lots of cooling and a ton of ports and connections, as well as be configured up with wazoo to flagship CPUs and GPUs. If you want all that power for work, it's a great desktop replacement as well.The system starts at $1,900, but that's with an RTX 4060; if you just want to use that big screen for 1080p and some 1440p games, that's fine. If you want to play high-quality 1440p and connect to an external display for 4K, you'll probably want a more expensive model with an RTX 4080.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,900 at Alienware
Learn more
Alienware m18 R2 review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best MacBook for gamers
Apple MacBook Pro 16 M4 Pro
Pros
Very fast
Excellent screen
Great battery life for its class
Cons
Merits a better webcam
Heavy
Screen notch
The Mac still isn't a very popular platform for gaming. Apple has been increasingly spurring developers of high-profile games to support the company's Metal graphics programming interface to show off MacOS and iOS code-once, play both performances. Whether you're the developer on the hook or need to use a MacBook but want to play games, my recommendation is the M4 Pro or Max 16-inch for the big screen and better (M4 Pro) or best (M4 Max) GPU.It's really expensive; our test system was priced in the ballpark of $3,500. Or if you don't care about the screen size, even the M4 Pro configuration of the 14-inch comes in at a lot less than the 16-inch. You definitely want the Pro or Max for the GPU.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,249 at Amazon
$2,499 at Apple
$2,499 at B&H Photo-Video
Learn more
Apple MacBook Pro 16 M4 Pro review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best 14-inch for gamers and creators
Asus ROG Zephyrus G14
Pros
Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 8.5 $2,000
Excellent, color accurate OLED display
Very well designed
Cons
Bottom gets hot when plugged in
No Adobe RGB profiling
Although the ROG Zephyrus brand is one of Asus' thin-and-light gaming lines, this particular 14-inch is targeted at creators and doesn't deliver best-in-class gaming performance. It's certainly good enough for top-quality 1080p. It features an excellent OLED display and is very well designed, it also comes with Asus' full-featured -- if a little confusing -- Armoury Crate software.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,750 at Best Buy
Learn more
Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best general-purpose laptop for gaming
HP Omen Transcend 14
Pros
Stylish design
Nice OLED screen
Good performance for its size and components
Cons
Can't force it to use the discrete GPU
Keyboard backlight can make keys harder to differentiate
Finish shows smudges
Although HP categorizes the Transcend as a gaming laptop, I consider it a general-purpose laptop that's also good for gaming, partly because it lacks a lot of the performance controls I expect from gaming laptops. It can be a good value on sale, say, roughly $1,200 or less for the configuration we tested, but since it's performance-constrained, I wouldn't pay a lot for it as a mostly-for-gaming laptop. It does wrap sufficient power for mainstream use and gaming in a compact, stylish design with an OLED display.   ... Show more
Get it now
$1,425 at Best Buy
Learn more
HP Omen Transcend 14 review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Best budget gaming laptop for 1440p
Alienware m16 R2
Pros
Decent performance for its class
Dual-refresh display
Not as much of a performance drop on battery compared to older CPU generations
Cons
Display has just-OK image quality
Keyboard feels a little stiff
Side vents can get quite hot
Comparatively heavy
Has a little trouble with weak wireless signals
Dell’s Alienware line isn't usually associated with the budget class, but Dell lowered the entry price for its second-gen m16 model to where it’s a sensible budget/midrange buy. The line starts at $1,500 for a configuration with an Intel Core Ultra 7 155H, GeForce RTX 4050, 16GB of RAM, a 1TB SSD and a single-zone RGB keyboard. Upgrading to an RTX 4060 adds $100 to the bill.The model we tested with RTX 4070 graphics and a per-key RGB keyboard runs about $1,750. The RTX 4050 and RTX 4060 models will serve you better playing games at 1080p than 1440p, but if you're looking for 1440p on the cheap you can lower your quality settings a bit to make it work.
... Show more
Get it now
$1,750 at Amazon
Learn more
Alienware m16 R2 review
Other notable gaming laptops we've tested
Origin PC Eon17-X v2: An above-average gaming laptop, this 17.3-inch is a solid big-screen alternative. Though it can't keep up with competing 18-inch models like the Alienware m18 R2, it holds its own against them when similarly equipped (with an Intel Core i9-14900HX and Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090), and like other big systems it has the cooling to handle the high-performance components (and the loud fans to go with it). Though it lacks some more common software customization options, you can personalize the cover with Origin's custom UV prints.Lenovo LOQ 15IAX9I: It's super cheap, with a dedicated Intel Arc GPU that lends it a wee bit of 3D muscle for casual 1080p play. Factors to consider when buying a gaming laptop
For gamers looking to get the most performance for their money, the trick to finding the right gaming laptop is getting enough performance to play 3D games without sacrificing too much in other areas like the display and overall build quality while also avoiding older models on sale with outdated or soon-to-be-outdated parts. Here's our expert advice on what to consider to get the most gaming laptop for your money.PriceGaming laptops start at well below $1,000 with slower GPUs (like an older model or RTX 4050) geared toward 1080p play and at the high end, the sky's the limit. The sweet spot -- for mainstream 1440p gaming and an RTX 4070 GPU that will last you longer without sacrificing AAA play -- sits roughly between $1,200 and $2,000, depending upon what you're willing to sacrifice. Operating SystemMicrosoft Windows is the most popular choice for gaming laptops, especially budget gaming laptops. If you've got a M3 Pro or better or M4 MacBook, Apple's been working with developers to increase the prominent games for MacOS. So don't give up.ScreenMost gaming laptops feature large displays between 14 and 18 inches; the older and cheaper models generally have 15.6- or 17-inch models. OLED delivers the highest contrast, most colorful and fastest displays, but you might want to look for HDR support, which they don't always have.ProcessorIntel and AMD are the main CPU makers for gaming laptops; most games depend on the GPU for their graphics performance, but sims and other games that populate worlds based on player or environmental interactions use the CPU quite a bit, so look for at least a Core i7 HX and better or AMD 8040HS-series CPUs or faster.GraphicsAll gaming laptops will feature a dedicated GPU from either Nvidia or AMD (and to a far lesser extent, Intel). Nvidia is the most popular and generally the best performing for the money. Look for an RTX 40xx or Radeon 7000-series discrete GPUs or later.MemoryFor memory, we highly recommend at least 16GB of RAM; 8GB will hamper performance in a lot of cases.StorageFor a gaming laptop, we don't recommend going with less than a 512GB SSD unless you either play only one game at a time or you want to spend a lot on an external SSD and your system has at least a Thunderbolt/USB4 port to at least store games in progress. 1TB is good; more is usually better, depending upon how much extra it costs.
Gaming Laptop FAQs
Do you still have to compromise on battery life?
Gaming laptops have traditionally had pretty bad battery life, which typically lasted as little as two hours of nonstop gaming. You also couldn't play most complex games -- GPU- or CPU-intensive ones -- on battery power. Processors would get throttled back and screens dim during hard-core gaming sessions, so a laptop that felt nimble when connected became a slog on battery power, turning your epic battles into battles of frustration.That's been changing as Intel, AMD and Nvidia have concentrated on improving their power management technologies. No, you still can't play for 10 hours on battery power, but now you can find some great gaming laptops with 10-hour battery lives -- albeit not for playing -- to make gaming on the road more feasible.
What do I need to know about a gaming laptop's GPU (beyond speed)?
The fastest graphics processor currently available in a laptop is still the Nvidia Geforce RTX 4090, with the usual Max-Q variants. The Max-Q versions run at slower frequencies than their full-size siblings -- that keeps down the noise and heat and allows them to fit into thinner designs. RTX models also accelerate ray-traced rendering and provide intelligent upscaling/optimization (also known as DLSS) where it's explicitly supported; AMD's Radeon GPUs have their equivalents, but AMD has yet to catch up on ray-tracing performance and its optimization doesn't have as high a performance multiplier as DLSS.Support for Nvidia's Advanced Optimus, which you'll still rarely see in cheaper systems, also lets you switch between a high-power-draw dedicated GPU mode and a power-saving mode on the fly instead of requiring a reboot and can take advantage of adaptive refresh-rate technologies for the display.AMD's current high-power laptop GPUs don't hit the highs of Nvidia's best, but they tend to be solid midrange performers. The "S" versions are the lower-power models designed to fit better in the thinnest laptops.
Does a gaming laptop's CPU matter?
Yes, but not always. In general, sims benefit from faster clock speeds and more cores since those are required for the heavy calculations when worlds get complex. More and more AAA games are also starting to balance loads better between the CPU and GPU where possible as well. If you bounce back and forth between a game and the rest of Windows, it can help speed up that kind of multitasking a bit.
What do I need to know about screen size and refresh rate?
There's a lot to know if you're choosing a new gaming laptop. All the major companies offer configurations up to 360Hz, though it doesn't come that high for every resolution or screen size. And for many a gamer, they're not essential: 240Hz maximum should be fine for those few times you can get frame rates above 240fps. Even 144Hz will do for many people. Artifacts like tearing, caused by the screen refresh rate becoming out of sync with the frame rate, are affected by your games as much as your laptop brand and hardware.There are a lot of 120Hz 4K screens and a ton of 165Hz through 240Hz QHD (1440p) options. If you plan to connect to an external display and not travel with the laptop, it's less important to splurge on the screen and put your money into power and a dedicated video connection.
Photo Gallery 1/1
How we test computers
The review process for laptops, desktops, tablets and other computer-like devices consists of two parts: performance testing under controlled conditions in the CNET Labs and extensive hands-on use by our expert reviewers. This includes evaluating a device's aesthetics, ergonomics and features. A final review verdict is a combination of both objective and subjective judgments. The list of benchmarking software we use changes over time as the devices we test evolve. The most important core tests we're currently running on every compatible computer include Primate Labs Geekbench 5, Cinebench R23, PCMark 10 and 3DMark Fire Strike Ultra. A more detailed description of each benchmark and how we use it can be found on our How We Test Computers page.   ... Show more
How we test laptops
The review process for laptops, desktops, tablets and other computer-like devices consists of two parts: performance testing under controlled conditions in the CNET Labs and extensive hands-on use by our expert reviewers. This includes evaluating a device's aesthetics, ergonomics and features. A final review verdict is a combination of both objective and subjective judgments.  The list of benchmarking software we use changes over time as the devices we test evolve. The most important core tests we're currently running on every compatible computer include Primate Labs Geekbench 6, Cinebench R23, PCMark 10 and 3DMark Fire Strike Ultra.  A more detailed description of each benchmark and how we use it can be found in our page on how we test computers.  For gaming laptops, we run a variety of performance tests, and in the individual product reviews, you'll see more meaningful performance results than the ones we present here. In reviews, we provide apples-to-apples results -- products from the same pool that you're trying to choose from, with similar prices and configurations -- rather than the fruit salad sampling of results here.
About the Author
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice
I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats.
Read full bio
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.